  Case Number:  22SMCV02419    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02419




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Quakestrong 




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Susan Burnham  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication; 
Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Declaration
     of Darren M. Ebner
Statement
     of Evidence

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
Declaration of Mark J. Burns
Declaration of Luis J. Garcia
Compendium of Evidence


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
Response
     to Plaintiff’s Additional Facts

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 21, 2022, Plaintiff Susan Burnham (“Plaintiff”) brought
suit alleging two causes of action for (1) premises liability and (2) general negligence;
arising from an incident in which Plaintiff allegedly tripped and fell on
construction debris that had not been cleared away from the subject
premises.  The suit was originally
brought against Defendants 1340 Crescent Hts., LLC; Morris Bekas; Shirley
Bekas; David Mazewski; and Debra Mazewski. 
Plaintiff subsequently named Quakestrong as Doe 1; the Beaumont Co. as
Doe 2; Doris Goldberg as Doe 3; Leo Kleiman as Doe 4; Sam Goldberg as Doe 5.
 
Defendant Quakestrong (“Defendant” or “Quakestrong”) now moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, as to Plaintiff’s
complaint on the following issues:
 
1. Issue 1: There is no evidence that Quakestrong
owed any duty to Plaintiff under her first cause of action (for “Premises
Liability”) and/or second cause of action (for “General Negligence”). 
 
2. Issue 2: There is no evidence that Quakestrong
breached any duty to Plaintiff under her first cause of action (for “Premises
Liability”) and/or second cause of action (for “General Negligence”). 
 
3. Issue 3: There is no evidence that Quakestrong
caused Plaintiff’s injuries/damages under her first cause of action (for
“Premises Liability”) and/or second cause of action (for “General Negligence”).
 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion and Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” ¿(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (hereafter Aguilar).)
¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production
to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of
material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and
the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to
make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply
to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th. at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department
of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
DISCUSSION

 
“The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.) “Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
32, 37.)
 
Here,
Defendant argues (1) it did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care; (2) it did not
commit any breach; and (3) Quakestrong did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
1.     Defendant’s Evidence           
 
In support, Defendant has advanced
the following Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) supported by sufficient
competent evidence:
 
·       Plaintiff alleges on December 5, 2020 at
approximately 7:00 a.m. she slipped and fell on the second to last step while
descending a set of stairs in the apartment complex where she resided that led
to the parking garage/dumpster area below her apartment.  (UMF Nos. 1-2.)
 
·       The premises are owned by Defendants Morris
Bekas, Shirley Bekas, David Mazewski, Debra Mazewski-Lewis, Doris Goldberg, Sam
Goldberg, and Leo Kleiman (“Owners”). 
(UMF No. 3.)
 
·       Defendant Beaumont Co. managed the premises
pursuant to a management contract between itself and several Owners.  Beaumont delegated some of its day-to-day
management responsibilities to on-site property manager Bill Von Ravensberg and
delegated responsibility for cleaning common areas to third-party cleaning
service J&V Janitorial.  (UMF No. 4.)
 
·       Defendant Beaumont Co. hired Quakestrong to
perform seismic retrofitting at the Premises from approximately October 22,
2020 to December 28, 2020, but was not performing any work at the Premises at
the time of the incident.  (UMF No. 12.)
 
·       Quakestrong’s work took place in the garage
only and did not require Quakestrong to perform work on or utilize the stairs
(UMF No. 13.)
 
·       Quakestrong specifically prohibited its
employees/personnel from using the stairs or entering any portions of the
premises outside the garage.  (UMF No.
17.)
 
·       Quakestrong did not use the type of nail
Plaintiff claims was the “screw” she slipped on because the nail in question contained
a small type of strip nail used in nail guns, which Quakestrong did not use on
the project.  (UMF Nos. 21-22.)
 
·       The fact that a piece of collated nail strip
was still attached to the nail also demonstrates that this particular nail was
never used in the course of construction. 
(UMF No. 23.)
 
·       Plaintiff did not recall observing any nails
or screws on the stairs prior to the incident. 
(UMF Nos. 6-7, 24.)
 
2.    
Plaintiff’s
Evidence  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
points out that she testified that she was “pretty sure” she slipped on either
a nail or screw on the stairway.  Plaintiff
has also advanced the following additional material facts supported by sufficient
competent evidence:
 
·       On December 5, 2020, at approximately 7:00
a.m., Plaintiff was descending the stairwell adjacent to the construction area
when she slipped on a nail or screw. Supporting Evidence: Exhibit 1, Burnham
Depo, p.64, lines 10-20; 85:25-86:4; 124:13-19 Exhibit 5-11, Photograph of nail
or screw, authenticated at p. 103 of the Burnham Depo.
 
·       Plaintiff assumes the nail depicted in the
Exhibit 10 photo is the “screw” she slipped on because it was later found
behind the door in the area where she slipped. 
Supporting Evidence:  Exhibit 1, Burnham
Depo at p. 100:1-19.
 
·       At the time of the incident, Defendant
Quakestrong was performing a seismic retrofitting project at the Premises, and
their activities included demolition work involving stucco removal, concrete
removal, and ceiling removal in the garage area. Supporting Evidence: Exhibit
2, Gonzalez Depo, p. 12:20-24, p. 15:1-7, pp. 22:18-23:15; pp. 57:13- 58:18;
Exhibit 3, Kalt Depo, p.21:22-22:4; pp. 38:18-39:21; Exhibits 5-19-5- 24,
Jobsite Photographs; Exhibit 6, Quakestrong Emails.
 
·       Quakestrong's construction activities
impacted common areas used by residents, including the stairwell where
Plaintiff fell. Supporting Evidence: Exhibit 2, Gonzalez Depo, p. 34:4-24;
108:5-8.
 
·       During Quakestrong’s project, there was
frequently debris on the stairs due to ongoing construction work by
Quakestrong. The debris included sawdust, trash, pieces of wood, and other
materials left by Quakestrong workers after they finished their work each day.
Supporting Evidence: Exhibit 1, Burnham Depo, p. 78:9-21; 80:13-25; 80:12-22.
 
·       Debris from the Quakestrong project was
tracked up the stairs to the apartments. Supporting Evidence: Exhibit 1,
Burnham Depo, p. 79:16-80:1.
 
·       When Quakestrong opened the door between the
garage and the stairwell, they would put up a plastic divider—but debris would
often fall through the plastic. Supporting Evidence: Exhibit 1, Burnham Depo,
p. 84:6-15.
 
·       Quakestrong employees had access to and may
have used the stairwell during the construction project. Supporting Evidence:
Exhibit 2, Gonzalez Depo, p. 99:17:21; Exhibit 3, Kalt Depo, pp. 20:19- 21:13.
 
·       Nails, screws, and other construction debris
consistent with Quakestrong's materials were found on the stairs. Supporting
Evidence: Exhibit 1, Burnham Depo, pp. 94:23-95:3; Exhibit 2, Gonzalez Depo,
pp. 44:22-45:1; Exhibit 5-11, Photograph of nail or screw authenticated at
Burns Depo p. 103; Exhibit 5-12, Photograph of nail behind door authenticated
at Burns depo p. 104.
 
·       Quakestrong employees used nails and a nail
puller while nailing plywood during the project. Supporting Evidence: Exhibit
2, Gonzalez Depo, pp. 57:32-58:10; Exhibit 3, Kalt Depo, p. 41:1-7.
 
·       Quakestrong
did not have a formal policy or logs documenting when employees inspect and
clean the stairwell for debris resulting from their construction activities.
Supporting Evidence: Exhibit 2, Gonzalez Depo, p. 68:20:23; Exhibit 3, Kalt
Depo, p. 17:3-9.
 
·       Quakestrong failed to close off the
construction area or safely secure construction materials. Supporting Evidence:
Exhibit 4, Davis Depo pp. 48:14-49:12.
 
·       Quakestrong never instructed employees to
clean debris on the stairs, and the resulting accumulated debris created a
foreseeable risk of harm to residents. Supporting Evidence: Burns Decl., ¶ 9;
Exhibit 2, Gonzalez Depo, pp. 110:14-111:5.
 
·       Burnham’s fall caused her to sustain serious
injuries, including a severed tendon that required surgery. Supporting
Evidence: Exhibit 1, Burnham Depo, p.28:14-29:14.
 
A.   
Duty 
 
Defendant argues it did not
owe Plaintiff a duty of care because there is no relationship between
Quakestrong and Plaintiff that requires Quakestrong to inspect, warn, or
mitigate dangerous conditions caused by a nail Quakestrong did not use, on the
stairs which were outside its area and scope of work, and which were
exclusively managed by Beaumont and/or its agents.
 
“To state a cause of action
for negligence, a plaintiff must establish the defendant owed a legal duty of
care. Generally speaking, all persons have a duty to take reasonable care in
their activities to avoid causing injury, though particular policy considerations
may weigh in favor of limiting that duty in certain circumstances.”  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11
Cal.5th 204, 209 (hereafter Brown).) 
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not only for the result of his
or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her
want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or
person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care,
brought the injury upon himself or herself.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1714.)  Section 1714
“establishes the default rule that each person has a duty to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214.)  
 
“Section 1714 states a broad
rule, but it has limits. We have explained that the law imposes a general duty
of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has created a risk of
harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant is responsible for making
the plaintiff's position worse.   The law does not impose the same duty on a
defendant who did not contribute to the risk that the plaintiff would suffer
the harm alleged.  Generally, the person
who has not created a peril is not liable in tort merely for failure to take
affirmative action to assist or protect another from that peril.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214 [cleaned
up].)
 
Here, Quakestong essentially
argues that because it did not perform any of the construction work at issue on
the stairs where Plaintiff fell, it did not owe a duty of care to monitor, warn
against, or mitigate dangerous conditions on the stairs, and that the duty to
maintain the stairs belonged to the owners, property manager, and their agents.  
 
 Because of the close physical proximity of the
second to last step where Plaintiff tripped on the “nail or screw,” and the garage
where the demolition and construction work was being performed, the Court
cannot determine as a matter of law based upon the record that Quakestrong did
not owe a duty of care.  Stated differently,
the Court determines that there may be factual issues to be determined by a
factfinder before the Court can decide whether or not a duty of care is owed to
Plaintiff, or if there is a basis to create an exception to the duty
established under Section 1714 under the Rowland [1]factors.[2]  
 
 
Thus, Quakestrong has not met
its initial burdens of production and persuasion that it did not owe a duty of
care to Plaintiff.
 
B.   
Breach of
Duty and Causation
 
Regarding breach and
causation, however, Quakestrong has presented evidence to establish that it did
not breach a duty of care or cause the harm alleged by Plaintiff.  In particular, Quakestrong advanced evidence
that the nail Plaintiff discovered in the stairwell shortly after the incident
was not used in construction it performed at the subject premises, by its
workers or otherwise.  In turn,
Quakestrong contends that the harm alleged by Plaintiff was not proximately
caused by any breach on its part.  
 
Therefore, on the issues of
breach and causation, the burden has shifted to Plaintiff to produce evidence which
raises triable issues of material fact.  
 
In sum, Plaintiff has advanced
sufficient evidence to raise triable issues of act that Quakestrong’s conduct during
the construction permitted construction debris to be swept, blown, tossed,
kicked, or otherwise make its way onto a lower step of the adjacent stairwell
and leave a hazard for the residents, such as Plaintiff, to slip on, especially
because the door that separated the garage from the stairwell was sometimes
left open (as was the case when Plaintiff slipped.)  (See, e.g., Ex. B [Plaintiff’s deposition] at
pp. 81-82 and Ex. 1 thereto [photograph of stairwell].)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has met
her burden of production to create a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the nail or screw Plaintiff slipped on was part of Quakestrong’s
construction debris, thereby breaching its duty of care, and causing harm, to
Plaintiff. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Having found Quakestrong failed to meet its initial burdens of
production and persuasion that it did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care, the
Court denies summary adjudication as to Issue 1.  
 
Having found Quakestrong met its initial burdens of production and
persuasion that it did not breach its duty or cause Plaintiff’s injuries, but
that Plaintiff met her burden of production to create triable issues of
material fact, the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issues 2 and 3.  In particular, when viewing the evidence in
the light most favorable to, and drawing all reasonable inferences in favor of,
Plaintiff, the Court determines that there are  triable issues of material fact as to UMFs 5,
7, 9, 13, 17 (in part), 19 (in part) and 21 -26.
 
Because the Court denies summary adjudication as to all issues, the
Court similarly denies summary judgment. 

 
Quakestrong shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  December 12, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


