


[1] Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 (hereafter Rowland).
 


[2] The
multifactor test set forth in Rowland was not designed as a freestanding
means of establishing duty, but instead as a means for deciding whether to
limit a duty derived from other sources.  . . .  We explained that the basic policy of this
state set forth by the Legislature in section 1714 is that everyone is
responsible for an injury caused to another by his want of ordinary care or
skill in the management of his property.  And while there are exceptions to section
1714’s general rule, in the absence of a statutory provision declaring an exception,
no such exception should be made unless clearly supported by public policy.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 217 [cleaned
up].)  To wit, “Rowland itself
referred to this multifactor test as a guide for determining whether to
recognize an “exception” to the general duty of care under section 1714.  [T]he Rowland factors serve to
determine whether an exception to section 1714’s general duty of reasonable
care is warranted, not to determine whether a “new duty” should be created.”  (Id. at p. 218 [cleaned up].)  In sum, “Rowland is a guide to
determining when to create exceptions from duties otherwise established.”  (Id. at p. 219.)  
 
“To depart from the general
principle that all persons owe a duty of care to avoid injuring others, . .
.  , involves the balancing of a number
of considerations:  the foreseeability of
harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered
injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the
injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy
of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.”  (Brown,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 217 [cleaned up].) 
And so “[a] court might conclude that duty should not be imposed
because, for example, the type of harm the plaintiff suffered was
unforeseeable, or because there was no moral blameworthiness associated with
the defendant's conduct, notwithstanding the defendant's special relationship
to the plaintiff. Put differently, even when a special relationship gives rise
to an affirmative duty to protect, a court must still consider whether the
policy considerations set out in Rowland warrant a departure from that
duty in the relevant category of cases.” 
(Id. at p. 222.)  Here, the
Court notes that Quakestrong fails to produce evidence as to each factor for the
Court to determine that there is a basis to make an exception to the duty of
care under Section 1714.  For example, Quakestrong
did not present any evidence on the issue of the availability, cost, and
prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.
 

