 Case Number:  23STCV18404    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HEATHER TOOMES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
UHC OF CALIFORNIA, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV18404
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance
  with deposition subpoena 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff Heather
Toomes filed this action against Defendant UHC of California, asserting causes
of action for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. The complaint alleges that Defendant wrongfully refused
to authorize a needed surgery for Plaintiff based on surgery guidelines that
were biased and financially-driven. 
            On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff
issued a subpoena to nonparty Optum, Inc. for personal appearance and
production of documents. Optum served objections to the subpoena but otherwise
indicated an intent to provide alternative dates and produce documents. Plaintiff
contends that Optum has failed to do so. 
            On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel Optum’s compliance with the subpoena. Optum
filed its opposition on November 21, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on
November 27, 2024. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a witness]
. . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a),
(b).) Good cause must be shown to compel a nonparty to produce documents. (See Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)   
DISCUSSION
            The subpoena requests a PMQ to
testify on two topics: (1) Optum’s handling of Plaintiff’s surgery request; and
(2) Optum’s corporate relationship with UHC. (Davis Decl., Ex. 2.) The subpoena
further requests three document requests: (1) all documents relating to
Plaintiff’s surgery request; (2) contracts between Optum and UHC that applied
to Plaintiff’s coverage with UHC; and (3) policies addressing whether
Plaintiff’s requested surgery is covered under UHC contracts. (Ibid.) 
There is good cause for the information
given the allegations in the complaint. Plaintiff is entitled to ascertain the
relationship between Optum and UHC and to determine the extent of Optum’s
responsibility for denying her surgery request. Optum’s counsel avers that they
have since identified a PMQ and provided dates for the deposition. (Appleby
Decl. ¶ 5.) Optum also avers that it has produced documents. (Id., ¶ 6.)
In reply, Plaintiff contends that Optum
intends to not properly testify to the topics listed in the notice, nor has
Optum produced all responsive documents. (Davis Supp. Decl. ¶ 3.) As noted
above, the Court finds the topics and document requests in the notice to be
proper. Thus, an order enforcing compliance with the subpoena is warranted. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to enforce
subpoena is GRANTED. 
 