  Case Number:  22STCV09157    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  11 Southern California Clergy Cases (JCCP 5101)
 
Roe 254 (22STCV09157)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Quash
 
Date:                           9/4/24
Time:                          11:30
am
Moving Party:           Roman Catholic Archbishop of Boston
(“RCAB” or “Defendant”)
Opposing Party:        John Roe 254 (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Defendant’s motion to quash is continued.  
 
Plaintiff’s request for a discovery continuance is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action (22STCV09157) is part of the coordinated Southern
California Clergy Cases (JCCP 5101). 
Plaintiff claims a priest named Father Richard Coughlin sexually abused
him in Orange County in 1967 when he was a minor.  Plaintiff alleges that RCAB loaned Father
Coughlin to the Los Angeles Archdiocese despite having actual or constructive
knowledge of his pedophilia.
 
Here, RCAB moves to quash service of process for lack of personal
jurisdiction.
 
DISCUSSION
 
There are “two types of personal
jurisdiction[,]” general and specific.  (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017) 582
U.S. 255, 262 (“BMS”).) Plaintiff only relies on specific jurisdiction. 
 
“When
determining whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider the
‘relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’” (Halyard Health, Inc. v. Kimberly-Clark Corp. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1062,
1070.)  “[C]ourts focus on the nature and
quality (not the quantity) of defendant’s activity in the forum state.”  (Edmond & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 3:240.) “[S]ingle
or occasional acts of the corporate agent in a state” may be adequate as long
as the lawsuit relates to the “in-state activity.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117,
127; see also Edmond & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 3:240.1 [“Provided a
‘substantial connection’ with the forum is created thereby, even a single act
may support specific personal jurisdiction over a nonresident.”].)
 
To exercise
specific jurisdiction, a court must find purposeful availment (the defendant made
purposeful contacts with the forum), relatedness (the litigation arises out of
or relates to the defendant’s forum contacts), and reasonableness (the forum’s “assertion”
of specific jurisdiction “comport[s] with ‘fair play and substantial justice’”).
(Halyard Health, supra,
43 Cal.App.4th at 1070.)
 
Plaintiff bears the initial burden to
establish specific jurisdiction. (See Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 449.)
 
Purposeful
Availment
 
“The purposeful availment inquiry
focuses on the defendant's intentionality and is satisfied when the defendant purposefully
and voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum so that he should
expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court's
jurisdiction based on his contacts with the forum.” (Archdiocese of
Milwaukee v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 423, 436,
internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
Defendant
 
Defendant asserts:
 
. . . RCAB did not engage in any
intentional conduct that was expressly target to or aimed at California, and
there is thus no such conduct that RCAB could have been known would cause harm
in California or which could have actually caused injury to Plaintiff in
California. 
 
In this case,
Coughlin was ordained a priest by Cardinal Archbishop Richard Cushing and was
incardinated as a priest of the Archdiocese of Boston in September of 1953,
meaning that he was accepted as a priest of that Archdiocese. Following his
ordination, Coughlin served as a priest in the Archdiocese of Boston until June
of 1965. He worked in Stoneham, Massachusetts, from 1953 to 1960, and then in
Lynn, Massachusetts, from 1960 to 1965.  
 
RCAB did not direct,
compel, request, or require Coughlin to go to California. To the contrary. In
March 1965, Coughlin, on his own initiative, requested permission to go to the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles on loan and with the intent to permanently incardinate
(i.e., be accepted permanently as a priest) there. His stated reasons for
seeking to go to California were to be with immediate family members who moved
to Orange County, and to help his family care for his ailing brother. 
 
At that time,
Coughlin could voluntarily seek to serve in a different diocese where there
might be a need for priests, under the authority of the local bishop in that
diocese - something called "lend-lease." 
 
In April 1965,
Cardinal Cushing granted Coughlin's request, and Coughlin explored with the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles the possibility of working there with a view toward
his permanent incardination there. 
 
In June 1965,
Coughlin’s assignment in the Archdiocese of Boston was terminated, and he moved
to California where he began serving the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, an
ecclesiastical territory and jurisdiction that was and is at all times separate
and independent from the Archdiocese of Boston and RCAB. Once Coughlin left for
California, he was under the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of his local
Archbishop in California. 
 
In June 1965, the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles granted Coughlin temporary faculties and assigned
him, initially, to Santa Ana. 
 
From June 1965 on,
Coughlin remained in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles and, per his request, was
incardinated into the Archdiocese of Los Angeles and excardinated from the
Archdiocese of Boston in February 1971. This means that he was released from
the Archdiocese of Boston and accepted into another ecclesiastical jurisdiction
outside of the Archdiocese of Boston, and was thus no longer a priest thereof.
Coughlin was never incardinated back as a priest of the Archdiocese of Boston,
and RCAB had no ability to assign, transfer, place, or supervise him with
respect to his priestly activities. 
 
RCAB did not assign,
and could not assign, Coughlin to any parish in California nor otherwise assign
him any duties as a priest in California. 
 
When Coughlin was in
California serving in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles from June 1965 on: (1) he
was under and subject to the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Archbishop of
the local archdiocese or the Bishop of the local diocese in which he served;
(2) he was ministering to the faithful there as a priest under canonical
faculties – such as the ability to celebrate Mass, hear confessions, or perform
marriages in California – granted to him by the Archdiocese of Los Angeles or
his delegate, because those local Church officials had the sole authority to
regulate such faculties in that Archdiocese; and (3) RCAB did not supervise,
and was not in any way responsible for supervising, Coughlin activities. 
 
In short, RCAB did
not derive any benefits, rights, privileges, or protections from California due
to Coughlin's presence there or his activities as a priest serving in the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles. Coughlin went there in 1965 on his own initiative
and for familial reasons, with the intent to stay there permanently, and he was
a priest in good standing at the time of that move. At no time prior to
Coughlin's departure from Boston in 1965 did RCAB receive any reports,
allegations, or notice that Coughlin had engaged in any sexual misconduct. In
fact, no complaints, allegations, or any other notice of sexual misconduct on
the part of Coughlin were brought to the attention of RCAB prior to 1985, which
was almost two decades after Coughlin allegedly abused Plaintiff. 
 
The fact remains
that RCAB’s acquiescing to Coughlin’s desire to leave Boston and serve in
California in 1965—particularly when there were no complaints, allegations, or
any other notice brought to RCAB’s attention back then that Coughlin might
present a risk to minors—is not a purposefully directed activity aimed at
California or its residents. 
 
The
foregoing facts bear no resemblance to purposefully directing activities at a
California resident, deriving benefits from activities in California, or
availing oneself of the privilege of conducting activities in California.
Plaintiff thus cannot satisfy his burden to proffer jurisdictional facts
demonstrating any alleged purposeful availment, and a fortiori, cannot
establish that RCAB had sufficient minimum contacts with California that the
exercise of personal jurisdiction over RCAB would comport with traditional
concepts of fairness and substantial justice.
 
(Motion, pp.
7-9, emphasis in original, citations omitted; see also id. at pp. 10-13
[distinguishing Archdiocese of
Milwaukee, supra, 112
Cal.App.4th 423, 436 and analogizing Doe v. Roman Catholic
Archbishop of Cashel & Emly (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 209, Archdiocese
of Detroit v. Green (2005) 899 So.2d 322, 323-326, and Doe v. Roman
Catholic Diocese of Boise, Inc. (1996) 121 N.M. 738, 743-745 (“Diocese
of Boise”)].)
 
Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff responds:
 
By granting Father
Coughlin permission to conduct activities in the state of California, and thus
removing a pedophile priest from its region, the Boston Archdiocese
purposefully availed itself of the forum state and should have expected it
would be subject to the Court’s jurisdiction. Indeed, because Father Coughlin’s
assignment to the Archdiocese of Los Angeles required explicit permission
from the Archdiocese of Boston, Father Coughlin’s request must have provided some
benefit to the Archdiocese of Boston, or it would, logically, have denied
his request to work elsewhere while remaining a priest of the Boston
Archdiocese and permitting Father Coughlin to continue to provide Father
Coughlin with medical and retirement benefits. 
 
Defendant Boston
Archdiocese improperly attempts to shift the focus entirely on Father
Coughlin’s personal reasons for his request, which is immaterial to the fact
that he was their agent sent and transferred to California with their
permission to provide services to California residents. The Boston Archdiocese
knew Father Coughlin, its agent, was engaged in activities in California and
was therefore, on notice that it could be subject to Californian courts’
jurisdiction based on his activities in the state. It is further telling that
it took Father Coughlin approximately six years to be incardinated into the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles from his arrival to California in 1965 to his
incardination into the Los Angeles Archdiocese in 1971.
 
Further, Plaintiff
has alleged that the Boston Archdiocese knew or should have known that Father
Coughlin was a danger to children and likely to sexually abuse them. Indeed, a
nine-year-old boy was sexually abused numerous times by Father Coughlin in Massachusetts
from 1958 to 1962 before being “loaned” to the Los Angeles Archdiocese. While
the Los Angeles Archdiocese may have had the ability to assign Father Coughlin
to parishes or direct his daily affairs, he remained an agent of the Boston
Archdiocese. The correspondence on that front, while limited given the lack of
discovery to date, amply demonstrates this fact. Given these representations –
made by the Boston Archdiocese itself – Plaintiff is entitled to engage in
discovery, like in Archdiocese of Milwaukee – to learn (1) the degree
and exercise of control the Boston Archdiocese had over Father Coughlin while
he was assigned to the Archdiocese of Los Angeles and (2) what the Boston
Archdiocese knew about Father Coughlin and his sexual abuse of children before
it allowed him to serve in Los Angeles and continue to sexually abused more
children, including Plaintiff.
 
(Opposition, pp. 9-10, emphasis
in original, case-name underlining added, citations omitted; see also id. at
pp. 8-9 [analogizing Archdiocese of Milwaukee and Diocese of Boise].)
 
Reply
 
In reply, Defendant contends:
 
* RCAB did not move Father
Coughlin to California (see Reply, pp. 1-2);
 
* RCAB did not control Father
Coughlin while he was in California (see id. at pp. 1-2, 6-7);
 
* RCAB did not receive notice of
sexual misconduct by Father Coughlin until almost 20 years after he moved to
California and allegedly abused Plaintiff (see id. at pp. 1-2);
 
* Plaintiff’s newspaper articles
are inadmissible and fail to show that RCAB had notice of sexual misconduct by
Father Coughlin (see id. at pp. 2-3);
 
* Plaintiff cannot use
allegations in the complaint to establish jurisdiction (see id. at p. 3);
 
* Plaintiff fails to demonstrate
an agency relationship between Father Coughlin and RCAB during the California
years (see id. at pp. 4-5);
 
* sexual abuse falls outside the
scope of an agency relationship (see id. at pp. 5-6);
 
* incardination is distinct from
agency (see id. at pp. 7-8); and
 
* mere approval of a priest’s
transfer request is inadequate to show purposeful availment.  (See id. at pp. 8-9.)
 
Analysis
 
Both sides
discuss Archdiocese of Milwaukee. There, the evidence demonstrated that
“the Milwaukee Archdiocese intentionally sent [a priest] to California to get
him out of Wisconsin where he had been convicted of sexual perversion against a
boy and could create further problems for the Milwaukee Archdiocese.”  (Archdiocese of Milwaukee, supra, 112
Cal.App.4th at 438.)  In fact,
the evidence showed that the Milwaukee Archdiocese “chose to place” the priest
“in California as a sort of lend-lease program with the hope that he would be
out of their sight and out of their jurisdiction.”  (Ibid.) 
Notably, “the Milwaukee Archdiocese knew [the priest] was a pedophile
and posed a serious threat of sexually abusing boys in California.”  (Ibid.) 
The Court of Appeal found that, “[b]y sending a known pedophile into
California, the Milwaukee
Archdiocese aimed its intentional conduct directly at this state” and
“reasonably could expect to be haled into court in California to answer for the
consequences of its actions.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Milwaukee Archdiocese argued,
unsuccessfully, that the evidence did not “support a finding of purposeful
availment” since the priest “voluntarily moved to California . . . because he
had family there.”  (Id. at 438-439.)  In rejecting the argument, the Court of
Appeal highlighted several pieces of contrary evidence:
 
As part of his sentence
for sexual perversion, Widera was ordered not to return to the Port Washington,
Wisconsin area. Henke, the pastor of St. Andrew's Parish, wanted Widera
removed. Concerns were raised over whether Widera could “in conscience” be reassigned
within the Milwaukee Archdiocese “in view of Widera's record.” A cover story
was created: Widera would go “‘on vacation’” to California. In the ombudsman's
notes, the words “on vacation” were set off by quotation marks. When asked why
he was leaving, Widera was instructed to say “only that he's going on
vacation.” After going to California, Widera wrote: “It was on advice that I
left the area.”
 
Once Widera was in
California, the Milwaukee Archdiocese never recalled him, although it had the
power to do so, never questioned him, never monitored his treatment, and never
conducted an investigation to determine whether he continued to molest boys. The
Milwaukee Archdiocese allowed Widera to be excardinated so he could be
incardinated in the Orange Diocese. Accepting the trial court's resolution of
factual issues and drawing all reasonable inferences in support of the trial
court's order [citation], we conclude the evidence supports the finding
that the Milwaukee Archdiocese made and enacted a concerted plan to rid itself
of Widera by intentionally placing him in California.
 
(Id. at 439.)
 
Defendant claims Archdiocese of
Milwaukee is distinguishable because Father Coughlin requested the move to
California “on his own initiative” “to be with immediate family members . . .
and to help his family care for his ailing brother.”  (Motion, p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  He contends Archdiocese of Milwaukee
is analogous because Father Coughlin was Defendant’s agent, Defendant knew or
should have known that Father Coughlin was a pedophile, and Defendant received
a benefit by moving a pedophile out of its region.  (See Opposition, pp. 8-10.)
 
On the current record, the Court agrees
with Defendant. First, Plaintiff’s evidence lacks authentication and
verification.  (See Muradian Decl., ¶¶
4-10, Exs. 3-10.)[1]  Second, Plaintiff fails to show that Father
Coughlin was convicted of child molestation in Massachusetts or anywhere else
prior to being loaned to the Los Angeles Archdiocese or that Defendant knew of
pre-loan incidents of child molestation by Father Coughlin (the newspaper
articles were written in 1993, and Father Coughlin’s personnel record and the
other letters do not reveal knowledge of child sexual abuse or a scheme on
Defendant’s part to relocate him).  (See
id. at Exs. 3-4, 6-10.)  Third, Plaintiff’s
knew-or-should-have-known contention is just an allegation, which is not
enough.  (See, e.g., Edmond & Karnow,
supra, at ¶ 3:388 [instructing that “[a]n unverified pleading has no
evidentiary value in determining personal jurisdiction].) What is missing,
agency or not, is evidence that Defendant targeted California with intent and
incurred a benefit comparable to the benefit incurred in Archdiocese of
Milwaukee.
 
The hearing is continued.  A plaintiff is entitled to propound jurisdictional discovery before
a motion to quash is decided.  (See
Edmond & Karnow, supra, at para. 3:380.) 
Plaintiff requests a discovery continuance (see Opposition, p. 14), and
the request should be granted to give Plaintiff a chance to find the same kinds
of evidence that the Archdiocese of
Milwaukee court found compelling.  Plaintiff also deserves an opportunity to
depose Defendant’s declarants and/or to discover evidence countering their
declarations.  (See Straub Decl.; see
also Crowley, Jr. Decl.)[2]
 
Relatedness
 
For the relatedness prong, “‘the suit’
must ‘aris[e] out of or relat[e] to the defendant’s contacts with the
forum.’”  (BMS, supra, 582 U.S. at
262.)  “In other words, there must be ‘an
affiliation between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, [an]
activity or occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore
subject to the State’s regulation.’” 
(Id.) 
 
Defendant does not challenge this
prong.  (See Motion, pp. 5-14.)
 
Plaintiff states:
 
.
. . The Boston Archdiocese sent its priest, employee, agent, and/servant Father
Coughlin to California and for approximately six years – from 1965 to 1971 –
Father Coughlin served in California as an agent of the Boston Archdiocese.
During that time, Father Coughlin used his position as a priest – a position he
had been given by virtue of his incardination into the Boston Archdiocese – to
sexually abuse Plaintiff. Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Father
Coughlin was acting as the Boston Archdiocese’s agent and within the scope of
his agency, and in his capacity as a priest, when he sexually abused Plaintiff
in California. Therefore, this second requirement to establish specific
personal jurisdiction over Defendant is easily met.
 
(Opposition,
p. 11, citation omitted.)
 
Plaintiff’s
argument depends on knowledge and agency allegations. As explained above,
allegations do not suffice, and the evidence in the current record fails to
meet Plaintiff’s burden.
 
To repeat,
the Court is granting a discovery continuance.
 
Reasonableness
 
“Finally, it must appear that the
exercise of jurisdiction by local courts in the particular case would ‘comport
with fair play and substantial justice.’” 
(Edmond & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 3:244.)  “The burdens on the nonresident must clearly
outweigh the plaintiff’s and forum’s interests.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:247.)
 
The burden of
proof belongs to the defendant: “If plaintiff shows that the nonresident
defendant has ‘purposefully availed’ itself of benefits and protections of
forum law, that defendant bears the burden of proving it would be unreasonable
for local courts to exercise jurisdiction.” 
(Id. at ¶ 3:255.)
 
For now, it
is unnecessary to analyze this prong. 
Defendant’s burden to show unreasonableness does not arise unless and
until Plaintiff proves purposeful availment and relatedness. 
 
 


