 Case Number:  23STCP00261    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68Date: 7-8-24Case # 23STCP00261Trial Date: Not SetAPPLICATION FOR ORDER OF SALE OF DWELLINGMOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs/Judgment Creditors, Luiz Meono, et al.RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants/Judgment Debtors, Miguel Lopez, et al.RELIEF REQUESTEDApplication for Order of the Sale of DwellingSUMMARY OF ACTIONPlaintiffs/Petitioners Luz and Ricardo Meono purchased a certain home from Defendants Rosalio Granados and Miguel Lopez. The Meonos allege Defendants/Respondents failed to disclose third party Araceli Granados occupied the property. Granados refuses to leave the premises.On January 31, 2023, Petitioners filed a petition to compel arbitration. The petition identifies causes of action for Fraud and Deceit, Negligent Misrepresentation, Breach of Contract, Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Petition for Contractual Arbitration. On March 22, 2023, the clerk entered a default against both Rosalio Granados and Miguel Lopez. On October 18, 2023, the court entered default judgment for $270,406.54 against Rosalio Granados and Miguel Lopez.On September 20, and December 4, 2023, and April 23, 2024, the court denied the three motions to set aside the default.RULING: Denied.Judgment Creditors Luiz Meono and Ricardo Meono submit an application for an order allowing the forced sale of the dwelling commonly known as 1032 North Dudley Street, Pomona, CA, CA 91768 (APN No. 8358- 028-072). Defendant/Judgment Debtor Miguel Lopez filed an opposition to the motion, though given the failure to vacate the default, a defendant/judgment debtor actually lacks capacity to oppose a subsequent default judgment prove-up related hearing. (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385–386 [“‘A defendant against whom a default has been entered is out of court and is not entitled to take any further steps in the cause affecting plaintiff's right of action; he cannot thereafter, until such default is set aside in a proper proceeding, file pleadings or move for a new trial or demand notice of subsequent proceedings’”].) Thus, while the court acknowledges the claim of Lopez that the home remains a primary residence, the court cannot consider any declaration from Lopez for purposes of the subject motion.In setting the subject hearing, on May 31, 2024, the court ordered Judgment Creditors to comply with Code of Civil Procedure Section 704.770:(b) Not later than 30 days before the time set for hearing, the judgment creditor shall do both of the following:(1) Serve on the judgment debtor a copy of the order to show cause, a copy of the application of the judgment creditor, and a copy of the notice of the hearing in the form prescribed by the Judicial Council. Service shall be made personally or by mail.(2) Personally serve a copy of each document listed in paragraph (1) on an occupant of the dwelling or, if there is no occupant present at the time service is attempted, post a copy of each document in a conspicuous place at the dwelling.Judgment creditors filed a proof of service indicating service by overnight mail on Miguel Lopez and a second proof of service on “Jane Doe” to the identified residence on June 4, 2024. Service was therefore proper as to the residence, but the court lacks proof of service on Lopez given the representation that Lopez in fact does not reside on the premises (see below).Judgment creditors submit a declaration from Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor from Luz Adriano and supplemental declaration from counsel in support of the sale. The declarations consist of a tile report listing Miguel Lopez as fee simple title holder since 2015, a homestead declaration from Miguel Lopez, and encumbrances on the property, including a delinquent tax assessment and the subject judgment. The delinquent taxes are listed as $11,432.89 as of May 2024. The tax liens are superior to the judgment and writ of execution, but Plaintiff represents no other liens or encumbrances on the property. Plaintiff estimates a sale value of $1 to $1.2 million based on comparable listings and sales in the area. [Declaration of Luz Meono.](a) The burden of proof at the hearing is determined in the following manner:(1) If the records of the county tax assessor indicate that there is a current homeowner's exemption or disabled veteran's exemption for the dwelling claimed by the judgment debtor or the judgment debtor's spouse, the judgment creditor has the burden of proof that the dwelling is not a homestead. If the records of the county tax assessor indicate that there is not a current homeowner's exemption or disabled veteran's exemption for the dwelling claimed by the judgment debtor or the judgment debtor's spouse, the burden of proof that the dwelling is a homestead is on the person who claims that the dwelling is a homestead.(2) If the application states the amount of the homestead exemption, the person claiming the homestead exemption has the burden of proof that the amount of the exemption is other than the amount stated in the application.(b) The court shall determine whether the dwelling is exempt. If the court determines that the dwelling is exempt, the court shall determine the amount of the homestead exemption and the fair market value of the dwelling. The court shall make an order for sale of the dwelling subject to the homestead exemption, unless the court determines that the sale of the dwelling would not be likely to produce a bid sufficient to satisfy any part of the amount due on the judgment pursuant to Section 704.800. The order for sale of the dwelling subject to the homestead exemption shall specify the amount of the proceeds of the sale that is to be distributed to each person having a lien or encumbrance on the dwelling and shall include the name and address of each such person. Subject to the provisions of this article, the sale is governed by Article 6 (commencing with Section 701.510) of Chapter 3. If the court determines that the dwelling is not exempt, the court shall make an order for sale of the property in the manner provided in Article 6 (commencing with Section 701.510) of Chapter 3.…(d) The court may appoint a qualified appraiser to assist the court in determining the fair market value of the dwelling. If the court appoints an appraiser, the court shall fix the compensation of the appraiser in an amount determined by the court to be reasonable, not to exceed similar fees for similar services in the community where the dwelling is located.Code Civ. Proc., § 704.780On the homestead exemption, Plaintiff represents the home is in fact NOT the primary residence of Miguel Lopez based on a “phone conversation.” Only Lopez’s mother resides on the property. [Meono Decl.] Given the nature of the default judgment, the court can only determine the homestead exemption based on the purported conversation between Judgment Debtor and Judgment Creditor. The court accepts the representation of Meono (again the court cannot consider the inadmissible declaration in opposition). Nevertheless, the court remains unable to reconcile the incongruent representation of non-residence by Lopez with the requirement for service on the judgment debtor. While Miguel Lopez identified 1032 N. Dudley Street, Pomona on the March 27, 2024, filed motion to vacate default judgment, the court declines to make a factual finding of a homestead exemption based on a conclusive statement in a declaration from a judgment creditor without a factual showing of support.In other words, if Lopez in fact lives off the premises, the court cannot determine valid service on Lopez at the purported non-residence. Alternatively if Lopez resides the served address, the court must consider the existence of a homestead exemption, assuming the possibility Lopez in fact remains a resident on the premises with his mother.Even as an effectively unopposed motion, the extreme nature of the requested relief, including the displacement of Judgment Debtor’s mother compels the court to make a more factually supported finding. The court therefore declines to order the sale of the property without further clarification and evidentiary support of the residence of Lopez, established service, and homestead exemption. (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 343 [the trial court “acts as a gatekeep, not a rubber stamp,” and therefore must insure Plaintiff proves up the entitlement to relief].)The court therefore denies the application for sale of the dwelling without prejudice.Plaintiffs/Judgment Creditors to give notice.