

 
            This is an employment discrimination
case brought by Plaintiff Vivian Alecio against former employer, Jet Aviation
Flight Service, Inc., and her former supervisor, Janelle Jaque (Jaque) (jointly,
Jet Aviation). Plaintiff alleges her employment was terminated based on her
sex, including conditions such as pregnancy related to her sex, and her
pregnancy disability. 
 
            Jet
Aviation moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication. Plaintiff
opposes the motion.
 
The operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleges claims for: (1)
sex discrimination (including pregnancy, pregnancy-related medical conditions,
and reproductive health decision-making); (2) disability discrimination; (3)
failure to prevent discrimination; (4) failure to accommodate; (5) failure to
engage in the interactive process; (6) violation of the pregnancy disability
leave provisions; (7) sexual harassment; and (8) wrongful termination.
 
The SAC was filed after Jet Aviation filed
its motion for summary judgment; the SAC withdrew Plaintiff’s two causes of
action for whistleblower retaliation under California Labor Code §§ 1102.5(b)
and 6310, and her request for punitive damages. As such, Issue Nos. 10, 11, 13
and 14 in the motion for summary adjudication are moot. 
 
            The
motion for summary judgment is granted. The motion for summary adjudication is moot.

 
Evidentiary Issues:
 
 Jet Aviation’s objections to Plaintiff’s
evidence are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-3, 5 are sustained as to the content of
the writings, Nos. 4, 6-45 are overruled. The evidentiary objections to deposition
testimony of Jaque, Plaintiff, Riedel, Garcia, and Legenos’s are improper; the
objections fail to quote the objectionable material as required under
California Rules of Court 3.1354 and instead cite pages of deposition testimony
(sometimes as many as ten pages of testimony).[1] 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The party moving for summary judgment
bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of
material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
            “California uses the three-stage
burden-shifting test established by the United States Supreme Court for trying
claims of discrimination based on a theory of disparate treatment,” known as
the McDonnell Douglas test. (Scotch v. Art Institute of California
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1004.) Under the McDonnell Douglas test, “the
plaintiff [first] has the burden of establishing a prima facie case of
discrimination. Second, if the plaintiff meets this burden, the employer must
offer a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment
decision. Third, and finally, the plaintiff bears the burden of proving the
employer's proffered reason pretextual.” (Knight v. Hayward Unified School
Dist. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 121, 129.)
 
            ” ‘A defendant employer's motion for
summary judgment slightly modifies the order of these [McDonnell Douglas]
showings.’ “ (Scotch, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 1005.) To
prevail on summary judgment, the defendant employer is “required to show either
that (1) plaintiff could not establish one of the [prima facie] elements of the
FEHA claim, or (2) there was a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for its
decision to terminate plaintiff's employment.” (Avila v. Continental
Airlines, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1247.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Jet Aviation moves for summary judgment on the
grounds that Plaintiff cannot establish all the elements of her claims and there
are no triable issue of material fact in dispute.  
 
            In support of summary judgment and
summary adjudication, Jet Aviation states that Plaintiff was terminated as
result of poor performance – not for any discriminatory reason. Further, Jet
Aviation asserts it was unaware of Plaintiff’s pregnancy until after the
termination decision was made and Plaintiff was granted all time off for
medical appointments prior to her termination. 
 
            The evidence in support of the
motion is as follows:
 
            Plaintiff began her employment as a
customer service representative for Jet Aviation in April 2017. She transferred
to a Logistics Specialist position in May 2018.
 
Plaintiff’s poor performance was documented as early as a 2017
Performance Evaluation where she was found lacking in the areas of
Adaptability, Analysis, Build Relationships, Establish Trust, Results Oriented,
and Strategic Thinking. (DSS 1.) In her 2019 Performance Evaluation, her
then-supervisor, Bruce Vogt, stated that she needed to strive to be more of a
team player with her logistics teammates. (DSS 2.)
 
On January 1, 2020, Jet Aviation’s employee health insurance began
covering fertility treatments. (DSS 3 [Pl. Depo. 127:9-128:16].) In November
2019, HR Business Partner Kara Carrier (Carrier) held a meeting at the Burbank
facility to go over the new insurance plan. (DSS 3.) After the meeting,
Plaintiff asked for additional information about coverage for fertility
treatments, and Carrier put her in contact with someone in Jet Aviation’s
benefits department in Teterboro, New Jersey. (DSS 3.) Plaintiff further alleges
she also had three conversations with Jaque about looking into Jet Aviation’s
IVF coverage and whether Plaintiff could afford IVF treatments. (DSS 4.)[2]
 
            On May 22, 2020, Jaque emailed
Carrier to request her help managing Plaintiff. (DSS 10.) Jaque stated that she
had received complaints from other team members about Plaintiff, and that
Plaintiff had exhibited an attitude and been rude toward Jaque. (DSS
10.) On June 10, 2020, Plaintiff alleges she reached out to Jaque to make sure
she was “covering all the bases.” (DSS 11.) Plaintiff subsequently reached out
to Jaque’s supervisor, David Silkey, on June 12, 2020 to see if there was
anything she could be doing better or that needed to “fixed.” (DSS 12.) After a
meeting between Silkey, Jaque and Plaintiff on June 18, 2020, Jaque left
feeling that Plaintiff would be unlikely to sustain long-term improvement in
her performance. (DSS 13.)
 
Plaintiff began receiving IVF Treatment in mid- June
2020. (DSS 19; PSS 19.)
 
            On June 19, 2020, Carrier called
Plaintiff and offered her the option to either resign and receive severance pay,
or to be placed on a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP); Plaintiff chose the
PIP. (DSS 14-15.) On June 26, 2020, Plaintiff was put on a PIP; none of the
issues raised in the PIP were related to Plaintiff’s attendance. (DSS 15.) 
 
Prior to being placed on the PIP, there was only one
instance in which Plaintiff used sick time from January 2020 through June 26,
2020 for an IVF-related doctor’s appointment: two hours of sick time used on
January 23, 2020. (UMF 20-21.)
 
            Jaque felt Plaintiff’s performance sufficiently
improved during the 30-day term of the PIP for Plaintiff’s employment to continue.
(DSS 17.)
 
            After Plaintiff had been placed on
the PIP, Plaintiff began requesting more time off for medical appointments; all
these requests were granted. (DSS 22.) In January 2021, Plaintiff told Jaque
that she would be having doctor’s appointments every week for the rest of the
year. (DSS 24.) Jaque emailed Plaintiff, “In future appointments is there any
availability to schedule appointments after 14:30 so you would not have to use
sick, vacation or floating holiday time? Did you want to change shifts times
with Angie?” (DSS 24.) Plaintiff indicated she did not want to change
shifts, and Jaque did not raise the issue again. (DSS 24.)
 
            Plaintiff further alleges that she
and her co-worker, Logistics Specialist Angie Riedel (Riedel) made complaints
about aircraft exhaust fumes drifting into their office approximately ten times
throughout Plaintiff’s employment as a Logistics Specialist, beginning
immediately after Plaintiff started as a Logistics Specialist in 2018. (DSS
26.)[3]
In March or April of 2021, the logistics office was moved out of Hangar 6 due
to plans to repair the floors. (DSS 27.)[4]
 
            On March 18, 2021, Jaque emailed
Carrier and Silkey and requesting approval to terminate Plaintiff’s employment.
(DSS 31.) Jaque received approval to terminate Plaintiff’s employment on March
30, 2021, and scheduled the termination for April 9, 2021. (DSS 33.) On April
8, 2021, Jet Aviation personnel sent Plaintiff’s final check via FedEx, to be
delivered April 9, 2021. (DSS 34.)
 
            On the afternoon of April 8, 2021,
Plaintiff attended a doctor’s appointment. (DSS 35.) After the appointment, she
called Carrier and informed her that she needed to take a leave of absence
based on the advice of her doctor. (DSS 35.) That same day, Carrier provided
Plaintiff the standard information about applying for a leave of absence. (DSS
36.) 
 
The following morning, on April 9, 2021, Jaque and
Carrier called Plaintiff to inform her that her employment was being terminated
as of April 9, 2021. (DSS 37.) Upon being notified of her termination,
Plaintiff told Carrier and Jaque that she was pregnant, and that her doctor’s
appointments were related to getting pregnant. (DSS 37.) Carrier and Jaque both
congratulated her and stated they had not known, and that the decision had been
made prior to Plaintiff’s doctor indicating a need for leave of absence. (DSS
37.) 
 
            Jet Aviation’s evidence in its
moving papers is sufficient to shift its burden on this motion for summary
judgment. 
 
            To be liable on a claim of
discriminatory discharge, the employer must have actual knowledge of the
employee’s specific disability at the time of the adverse employment decision.  Plaintiff must prove that knowledge. “An
adverse employment decision cannot be made ‘because of’ a disability, when the
disability is not known to the employer. Thus, in order to prove [a
discrimination] claim, a plaintiff must prove the employer had knowledge of the
employee's disability when the adverse employment decision was made.
[Citations.] While knowledge of the disability can be inferred from the
circumstances, knowledge will only be imputed to the employer when the fact of
disability is the only reasonable interpretation of the known facts. ‘Vague or
conclusory statements revealing an unspecified incapacity are not sufficient to
put an employer on notice of its obligations....' [Citations.]” (Scotch v.
Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1008 [quoting Brundage
v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228, 236–237].)
 
Moreover, the employee bears the burden of giving the
employer notice of his or her disability. (Avila v.
Continental Airlines, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1252; King
v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 443.) 


            Jet Aviation argues that evidence
the employer was aware of an employee’s pregnancy or disability is essential to
establishing a prima facie case of discrimination, citing Trop v. Sony
Pictures Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1145. In Trop,
the Court of Appeal upheld summary judgment in favor of the employer on the
basis that the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact that her
employer knew she was pregnant before she was terminated, and thus failed to
satisfy the first prong of the McDonnell Douglas test:
 
“When the pregnancy is apparent, or where plaintiff
alleges that she has disclosed it to the employer, then a question of the
employer's knowledge would likely preclude summary judgment. If the pregnancy
is not apparent and the employee has not disclosed it to her employer, she must
allege knowledge and present, as part of her prima facie case, evidence from
which a rational jury could infer that the employer knew that she was
pregnant.”
 
(Trop
v. Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., supra, at p. 1145.)
 
            Here, Jet Aviation’s evidence demonstrates
Jaque and the other decision-makers were unaware of Plaintiff’s pregnancy.
Further, Jet Aviation’s evidence also documents Plaintiff’s performance issues
that pre-date Plaintiff’s pregnancy and even Plaintiff’s fertility treatment.
Jet Aviation’s evidence is sufficient to shift its burden to Plaintiff to
demonstrate a triable issue of material fact in dispute. (Kelly v.
Stamps.com Inc. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1097–1098; Guz v.
Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 357
[employer's facially creditable evidence of nondiscriminatory reasons for
termination shifted burden to employee to rebut employer's showing].)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
her evidence is sufficient to show that Jet Aviation knew or should have known
she was pregnant and that the reason for her termination was mere pretext for a
discriminatory motive. 
 
            Plaintiff’s opposition evidence
fails to raise a triable issue of material fact with respect to Jet Aviation’s
knowledge of her pregnancy or fertility treatments. 
 
The evidence before this Court is largely undisputed.
Although the separate statement purports to dispute facts, the “contradictory
evidence” does not in fact dispute the underlying material fact. 
 
Most importantly, there is no dispute that Plaintiff
never affirmatively informed any decision-maker that she was pregnant or even
that she was pursuing IVF until after the termination decision was made on
March 30, 2021.
 
Three people participated in Defendants’ decision to
terminate Plaintiff's employment: Jaque (Plaintiff's supervisor), Kara Carrier
(HR representative in Burbank), and Jean Stefanski (HR representative in New
Jersey). Plaintiff only submits evidence that she told Jaque and Carrier that
she was pregnant on April 9, 2021. However, “[e]vidence that a decision maker
learned of a plaintiff's disability after deciding to take
adverse employment action is not probative of whether the decision maker was
aware of the plaintiff's disability when he or she made the decision.” (Avila, supra,
165 Cal.App.4th at p. 1251.) 
 
The undisputed evidence shows that
Plaintiff never told Jaque or Carrier about her pregnancy at any time before
March 30, 2021. (DSS 39; PSS 39.) It is also undisputed that Plaintiff
never informed Jet Aviation or Jaque that she was actively pursuing fertility
treatment; the evidence only shows that she was actively “considering”
treatment in 2020. (PSS 5.) 
 
Plaintiff relies on two categories of evidence to
support her claim that Jet Aviation knew or should have known about her
pregnancy and fertility treatments – her disclosure to other Jet Aviation
employees and her doctors’ notes given to Jaque.
 
First, Plaintiff testified that a few days before her
ultrasound, on or about February 23, 2021, she told Riedel that she was
pregnant. (PAF 18.) Plaintiff testified that Riedel “used to tell everything to
our supervisor, which was Janelle (Jaque). She [Riedel] used to discuss
everything with her [Jaque). Well, we both used to discuss everything with
her.”  (PAF 19.) Plaintiff suggests this
evidence demonstrate Jaque knowledge of Plaintiff’s pregnancy. 
 
Plaintiff speculation that Jaque knew of Plaintiff’s
pregnancy because of Jaque’s friendship with Riedel is entirely speculative.
“[S]peculation is not evidence.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 243, 289.) Thus, this evidence does not raise a triable issue
of material fact. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 411, 415 [“‘[R]esponsive evidence that gives rise to no more than
mere speculation cannot be regarded as substantial, and is insufficient to
establish a triable issue of material fact.’ ”].) 
 
Plaintiff also testified that, around the same time
she told Riedel that she was pregnant, her boyfriend – Eduardo De Souza – notified
Carl Legenos (Legenos) – De Souza's supervisor and Jet Aviation's Facilities
Maintenance Manager since 2015 – that Plaintiff was pregnant. (PAF 20.) Shortly
thereafter, Legenos congratulated Plaintiff during a 5-10 minute conversation
in her office. (PAF 20.) During that conversation, Legenos told Plaintiff to do
everything in her power to make sure that she kept the baby and to let him know
if she needed help with anything. (PAF 20.)
 
This evidence is irrelevant; it in no way informs on
the knowledge of the decision-makers. There is no evidence that Legenos told
Jaque or Carrier about Plaintiff’s pregnancy or that he was somehow involved in
Jet Aviation’s decision to terminate Plaitniff. Thus, this evidence does not
raise a triable issue of material fact.
 
Plaintiff also argues that Jet Aviation and Jaque were
aware of her pregnancy as a result of the content of Plaintiff’s doctor’s
notes.   
 
On January 18, 2021, Plaintiff notified Jaque by email
that she was requesting vacation from February 1 to 5, 2021. Plaintiff attached
a from Dr. Irene Woo of the California Center for Reproductive Health. The note
stated in part: “To Whom It May Concern: Please be advised that Ms. Alecio is
under my medical care.  will need to be
off of work from 2/1/21 and can return to work on February 8, 2021.” (PAF 17.)
Plaintiff asserts the California Center for Reproductive Health letterhead
contains a graphic logo of an egg being fertilized by a sperm. (PAF 17.) 
 
On February 8, 2021, Plaintiff sent an email to Jaque
regarding a doctor’s appointment for Wednesday, February 10, 2021, at 8:30 a.m.
and attached as a pdf an appointment reminder from the California Center for
Reproductive Health regarding that appointment. (PAF 21.) The appointment reminder letterhead contained the same
logo of an egg being fertilized by a sperm. (PAF 21.)
 
Finally, on February 15 2021, Plaintiff notified Jaque
via email that Plaintiff had an upcoming doctor’s appointment, and that she
would have to have lab work done with regard to her doctor's appointment on
Friday, February 26, 2021, and Plaintiff would have to pick up some specialty
medication with regard to her doctor's appointment on Friday, February 26, 2021.
(PAF 22, 24.) The appointment reminder letterhead contained the same logo of an
egg being fertilized by a sperm. (PAF 22.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that these notes with their reference
to “Reproductive Health” and containing a logo of an egg being fertilized by a
sperm are sufficient to show that Jet Aviation knew or should have known
Plaintiff was pregnant. 
 
However, as argued by Jet Aviation, imputing this
knowledge on Jet Aviation under these facts is not supported by the law. In
support, Jet Aviation cites Brundage v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228
and Avila v. Continental Airlines, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1237. 
 
In Brundage, the employee attempted to create a
triable issue of fact by demonstrating that her employer knew she had taken a
substantial amount of leave for medical appointments. The court, however,
granted summary judgment to the employer, noting that none of the notes
submitted in support of the employee’s leave requests identified any disability.
(Id. at 237.) Thus, the court of appeal held they were insufficient to
impute knowledge of any disability to the employer. (Ibid.) 
 
Similarly, in Avila v. Continental Airlines, Inc.,
supra, 165 Cal.App.4th 1237, the court granted summary judgment on the
grounds that an employer’s knowledge that a plaintiff had been ill or even
hospitalized was insufficient to prove notice of a qualifying disability
because there are many non-disability related reasons for seeking medical
treatment. (Id.) Specifically, Avila, a food service employee who had
worked for Continental Airlines for seven years, was terminated after he missed
seven days of work within a 12-month period; four of the days were due to acute
pancreatitis for which he was hospitalized. He claimed he should not have been
charged with those absences because they constituted a disability under the
FEHA. (Avila, supra, 165 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1248-1250.) When he returned
from his hospital stay, Avila provided a Kaiser form showing that he had been
hospitalized for three days, without explanation of the reason; he either gave
it to, or left it on the desk of, a manager, and it was contained in his
personnel file. (Id. at pp. 1244, fn. 3.) 
 
Nevertheless, Avila held that Continental was
entitled to summary judgment because the decision to terminate plaintiff's
employment was made by other personnel who were unfamiliar with his medical
excuses. “[T]o show that Continental acted with discriminatory intent, plaintiff
was required to produce evidence that the Continental employees who decided to
discharge him knew of his disability.” (Avila, supra, at p. 1248, 82
Cal.Rptr.3d 440.) “The Kaiser forms did not contain sufficient information to
put Continental on notice that plaintiff suffered from a disability.” (Id.
at p. 1249, fn omitted.) “From Continental's point of view, the fact that
plaintiff was hospitalized for only three days and then returned to work days
later without restrictions or accommodations is consistent with the conclusion
that plaintiff did not suffer from a condition that qualifies as a disability.”
(Ibid.) There is similarly a difference between Avila's supervisors
knowing he was sick and knowing he was disabled. (Ibid.)
 
Here, the evidence shows that Plaintiff was receiving
medical treatment but the doctors’ notes do not indicate that she was pregnant.
In fact, the content of the doctors’ notes indicate only that she was under a
doctor's care, with no diagnosis or condition indicated. 
 
“[A]n employer ‘knows an employee has a disability
when the employee tells the employer about his condition, or when the employer
otherwise becomes aware of the condition, such as through a third party or by
observation.’ ” (Faust v. California Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 864, 887.) For example, in Faust, the Court of Appeal held
that the employer was on notice of the plaintiff's disability when a
chiropractor wrote to the employer and stated that the plaintiff was “ ‘unable
to perform regular job duties’ ” and recommended that the plaintiff remain off work.
(Ibid.)
 
Instead, Plaintiff here asks this Court to find that
an inference can be made from the name of the office: California Center for
Reproductive Health. However, medical treatment for reproductive care is not
limited to pregnancy. Thus, under the circumstances, Jet Aviation cannot be imputed
with the knowledge that Plaintiff was pregnant; that is, this conclusion is not
the only reasonable interpretation of the known facts. (Featherstone
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150,
1167 [“While knowledge of the disability [or
pregnancy] can be inferred from the circumstances, knowledge will only be
imputed to the employer when the fact of the disability [or pregnancy] is the only
reasonable interpretation of the known facts.”] [italics in original]; King
v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426 [“An employee cannot demand clairvoyance of his
employer.”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is insufficient to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to Jet Aviation’s knowledge that Plaintiff
was pregnant. Thus, summary judgment may be properly granted because the
conclusion that employer was on notice of Plaintiff’s pregnancy or fertility
treatments is not the only reasonable interpretation of the known and
undisputed facts. 
 
            The remainder of Plaintiff’s opposition
relates to the argument that the proffered reasons for her termination were
weak, and thus pretextual. As discussed above, under the third step of
the McDonnel Douglas test the “plaintiff must ... have
the opportunity to attack the employer's proffered reasons as pretexts for
discrimination, or to offer any other evidence of discriminatory motive.” (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th at 356.) In demonstrating that an
employer's proffered nondiscriminatory reason is false or pretextual, “ ‘[an
employee] cannot simply show that the employer's decision was wrong or
mistaken, since the factual dispute at issue is whether discriminatory animus
motivated the employer, not whether the employer is wise, shrewd, prudent, or
competent....’ ” (Hersant v. Department of Social Services (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1005.) Moreover, “[c]ircumstantial evidence of ‘ “pretense”
must be “specific” and “substantial” in order to create a triable issue with
respect to whether the employer intended to discriminate’ on an improper
basis.” (Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th
52, 69.)
 
 Here, however,
Plaintiff’s arguments challenging the strength of Jet Aviation’s legitimate
business reasons for Plaintiff’s termination all fail as a matter of law
because Plaintiff cannot satisfy the first step of showing discriminatory
motive, which requires Jet Aviation’s knowledge of Plaintiff’s protected status.
(Trop v. Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., supra, 129
Cal.App.4th at 1145 [“An employee cannot make
out a prima facie case of discrimination based on pregnancy under FEHA in the
absence of evidence the employer knew the employee was pregnant.”].) That is,
no matter how weak a reason to support Jet Aviation’s termination, Plaintiff
cannot rely on this evidence to state a claim where there is no evidence
supporting a “rational inference that intentional discrimination, on
grounds prohibited by the statute, was the true cause of the employer's
action.” (Trop, surpa, 129 Cal.App.4th at 1149 [quoting Guz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 361].)[5]

 
For example, Plaintiff argues that the PIP and its
timing were suspect. Specifically, Plaintiff notes that Jaque indicated, in her
letter requesting Plaintiff’s termination, that Plaintiff’s performance began
to decline again from “late October 2020 and March 17, 2021.” Plaintiff argues
that it is suspicious that Jaque waited four months after her performance
purportedly declined to request the termination. However, as a preliminary
matter, waiting a period of four months to determine whether the poor performance
was truly a new pattern of poor behavior does not appear suspicious in dealing
with a major decision to terminate an employee. Contrary to Plaintiff’s
assertion, this is not “clear” evidence of pretext. Indeed, it suggests the
opposite, that the employer was patient in evaluating Plaintiff’s performance.
 
More to the point, there can be no argument of pretext
where there is inadequate evidence of a disability to support pretext. As
discussed above, the evidence of her disability was only conveyed to the
decisionmakers on April 8, 2021– when she requested a leave of absence. (DSS
35.) She still did not convey that this leave of absence was related to a pregnancy
until the following day, but the evidence was sufficient to put Jet Aviation on
notice of some disability and a need for accommodation. Nonetheless, the
evidence of her earlier medical appointments are insufficient to impute
knowledge of Plaintiff’s pregnancy or fertility treatments prior to this date.
Thus, there can be no discriminatory motive when there is no known
discriminatory grounds for termination prior to the date of the adverse
employment decision. 
 
Thus, “[w]hen there is no disputed issue of material
fact that the employer had a nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse
employment decision, the employer is entitled to summary judgment.” (Knight
v. Hayward Unified School Dist. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 121, 129.)
 
            Therefore, the motion for summary adjudication
of the Plaintiff’s first cause of action for discrimination based on her sex
and pregnancy/reproductive health decision-making and second cause of action
for discrimination based on disability are granted. 
 
            In the absence of any
discrimination, there can be no failure to take all reasonable steps necessary
to prevent discrimination; therefore, the motion for summary adjudication of
the third cause of action is also granted. 
 
            The evidence shows that Jet Aviation
was not aware of Plaintiff’s “known disability” and thus cannot have failed to
make reasonable accommodations as alleged in Plaintiff’ fourth cause of action.
Further, Plaintiff concedes that she did not have any known disability until April
8, 2021 – after Plaintiff had been terminated. (DSS 41, see also 33-37.)[6]
For similar reasons, the motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action, for failure to engage in an interactive process to determine
reasonable accommodations for Plaintiff’s disability, must also be granted. 
 
            For the same reasons as the first
and second causes of action, the motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s
sixth causes of action for violation of the pregnancy disability leave
provisions of the FEHA and seventh cause of action for harassment based on
pregnancy and related medical conditions in violation of the FEHA must also be
granted. 
 
            The motion for summary adjudication
of the eighth cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public
policy must also be granted. Under California law, if an employer did
not violate FEHA, the employee's claim for wrongful termination in violation of
public policy necessarily fails. (Esberg v. Union Oil Co. (2002)
28 Cal.4th 262, 272–273, superseded by statute on another point as stated in Alch
v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 339, 396–397.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted. The motion for summary adjudication is moot.  
 


