

 
This lawsuit concerns construction defects by Designing Edge
Builders, Inc. (Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant) in connection with the
remodeling of Michael Karlin’s house. 
 
On January 13, 2020, Plaintiff BMC West LLC filed a
Complaint against Designing Edge, asserting causes of action for Breach of
Contract, Quantum Meruit, Account Stated, Open Book Account, Recovery on
Personal Guarantee, and Recovery on License Bond. 
 
On March 4, 2020, Michael Karlin, former Trustee of the
12822 Highwood Street Trust, Michael Karlin, Trustee of the HIGHWOOD GIFT TRUST
#1 dated November 1, 2021, and Michael Karlin, Trustee of the HIGHWOOD GIFT
TRUST #2 dated November 1, 2021 (Karlin Parties) filed a Cross-Complaint
against Designing Edge Builders, Inc. and Dominique Sauer (DE), asserting
causes of action for Equitable Indemnity, Breach of Written Contract,
Declaratory Relief, and Fraud. 
 
On April 21, 2020, DE filed a Cross-Complaint against Karlin
Parties, asserting causes of action for Breach of Contract, Open Book Account,
Account Stated, Quantum Meruit, Total Indemnity, Equitable Indemnity, and
Contribution. 
 
            On October 11, 2023, the parties –
Karlin Parties, on the one hand, and DE, on the other hand – signed a settlement
agreement (Settlement Agreement) in this action. The Settlement Agreement provides that DE will pay $650,000
to Karlin Parties in exchange for a full settlement and release of all claims
against them and a dismissal of the Cross-Complaint. The Settlement Agreement
depends upon the Court’s approval of the Motion for Good Faith Settlement.
 
On August 30, 2023, Karlin Parties moved for a good faith
settlement with respect to a Settlement Agreement. The motion is unopposed. 
 
             The other potential parties involved include
the following: Pool & Spa Builders, Inc. (Cross-Defendant); Knibb Design
Corporation (Cross-Defendant); Patmar Air Systems, Inc. (Cross-Defendant),
Ramglass Enterprises, Inc., dba J&J Roofing (Cross-Defendant), and BMC
West, LLC (formerly Plaintiff but dismissed from action). 
 
            The Motion for Good Faith Settlement
is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) 
            In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court explained that in making a good faith settlement
determination, a trial court should “inquire, among other things, whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Id. at p. 499.) “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (d).)
“In the
context of section 877.6, ‘[t]he trial court is given broad discretion in
deciding whether a settlement is in “good faith” for purposes of section 877.6,
and its decision may be reversed only upon a showing of abuse of discretion.’ ”
(Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939,
957.) 
Discussion
 
            Karlin Parties request the Court
find its settlement with DE in the amount of $650,000 was made in good faith based
on its position that the Settlement Agreement meets all the relevant Tech-Bilt
factors.
 
            Acknowledging that there
is no precise method to determine whether parties entered into a good faith
settlement, the Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde Assoc. (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488 provided guidelines for
determining whether a settlement is made in good faith.
(38 Cal.3d at 495.) Rather, the court must strike a balance between the public
policy favoring settlements and the competing policy favoring equitable
allocation of costs between tortfeasors. (Id. at pp. 498-99.) To
accomplish this, the Tech-Bilt Court provided the following factors for
determining whether a proposed settlement is based on good faith: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling defendant’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) allocation of
settlement amounts among plaintiffs; (4) recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than it would if it were found liable after trial; (5)
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling defendant; and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of non-settling defendants. (Id. at 499-500.) The burden of
proof in asserting that a settlement lacked good faith falls upon the party
making the assertion and it must show that “the settlement is so far ‘out of
the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6].” (Ibid.) 
 
            Here, under the Settlement
Agreement, DE is to pay the sum of $650,000.00, which is approximately 50% of
the recoverable damages pursuant to Karlin Parties’ expert. (Wolpert Decl., ¶¶
2-3 Ex. 1 [Settlement Agreement], 2 [Expert’s Damage Report].) Therefore, the Settlement
Amount is within the ballpark of DE’s possible share of liability, with the understanding
that, under Tech-Bilt, a party should not be required to pay more in a
settlement than if found liable at trial.
 
            Further, Karlin Parties assert that
this settlement was reached in good faith as an arm’s length transaction before
neutral mediators. (Mot., 5:12-17.) Further, as is set forth in the settlement
agreement itself, payment of the settlement amount is being made by DE’s insurance
carriers; thus, there are no issues with the insurance policy limits. 
 
            Finally, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, “the party asserting the lack of good faith shall have
the burden of proof on that issue.” In the absence of any opposition to this
motion, this burden has not been met. 
            
Accordingly, the Court finds that the settlement was made in
good faith and in compliance with the Tech-Bilt factors.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is
granted.