  Case Number:  20STCV48811    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Determination of Good Faith SettlementCase Name: Douglas Da Silva McGlew v. Michelle CarrigerMoving Party: Defendant Michelle Carriger (“Carriger”)Responding Party: Defendants Fatameh Shamie and Mohammed Shamie (“Defendants”)Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a car accident case where Carriger collided with a vehicle driven by Douglas Da Silva McGlew (“Plaintiff”). Plaintiff claims to have suffered severe pain in back, neck, knee: cervical/neck strain, cervical spasms, lumbago, lumbar radicular pain, myofascial pain, spasms, knee strain claiming past medical expenses damages of approximately $212, 266.54. Plaintiff was also involved in two separate other accidents — one prior to and the other after subject accident. Plaintiff filed lawsuits for these two matters as well. (See McGlew v. Shamie, Case No. 20STCV48002); (McGlew v. Coxwell, Case No, 21STCV16214.) Plaintiff has sought treatment from many of the same medical and chiropractic providers for all three accidents. (Motion For Determination of Good Faith Settlement, p. 3.) Carriger denies any liability for Plaintiff’s injuries but reached a settlement to avoid further litigation costs and the uncertainty of further litigation for $30,000.00. (Id. at 4.) MOVING PARTY POSITIONCarriger argues the Court should grant the motion for determination of good faith settlement because it represents a rough approximation of Carriger’s proportionate liability and is within the ballpark of a reasonable settlement. (Motion, p. 7.)OPPOSITIONDefendants argue the Court should deny the motion because Carriger failed to provide evidence that the settlement was in good faith, arguing it comprises too small a portion of the total damages sought and makes no mention of Carriger’s financial condition. Defendants also argue that there is no evidence of their own disproportionate liability, and therefore that they should not bear a greater proportion of medical damages related to the same injuries. (Opposition, p. 9-11.) REPLYCarriger argues that case law supports the good faith of Carriger’s settlement with Plaintiff, that Carriger’s financial condition favors granting the motion, and that the proportion Carriger’s liability is merely theoretical because Plaintiff was involved in a prior and subsequent car accident that caused Plaintiff a greater amount of his injuries and damages. (Reply, p. 3-4.)ANALYSISMotion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has commenced. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a).) [T]he intent and policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.] Finally, practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement. “[A] defendant's settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be.” [Citation.] The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue [citation], should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500 (Tech-Bilt).)  The Court finds Carriger’s agreement with Plaintiff represents a good faith settlement. The issue is whether Carriger’s potential liability is within the “ballpark” of what a reasonable person would estimate their liability to be with the information available at the time of settlement. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff’s deposition testimony indicates Plaintiff was not seriously injured in his collision with Carriger, and that it only exacerbated a prior injury somewhat. Plaintiff openly states as much in his deposition, saying: “The first accident that happened caused all the injuries. The second one and which we are here for happened, and it made it a little worse. The third one happened and made everything a lot worse, a lot worse than I was already feeling.” (Motion p. 48, Exhibit C, Plaintiff’s August 26, 2024 Deposition.) Plaintiff further testified that the third accident — which occurred after Carriger’s collision — took his injuries “to a different level of exponentially worse.” (Id.) Plaintiff’s deposition strongly supports Carriger’s settlement in the amount of $30,000.00 is within the ballpark of liability, representing a minority proportion of liability of Plaintiff’s $212,266.54 economic damages claim. That the settlement amount of $30,000.00 represents the full policy limit of Carriger’s insurance further supports that the agreement is not “out of the ballpark” to warrant denying the parties’ settlement agreement. (See Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500.)  While Carriger contends her financial condition also supports a finding of good faith, no admissible evidence concerning her financial condition was provided.Conversely, Defendants provide no evidence suggesting Carriger’s percentage of liability is any greater than the settlement agreement or motion suggest. The settlor's percentage of liability is the touchstone question to be considered by the trial court in a contested good faith settlement hearing. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262.) Defendants’ argument that the motion lacks discussion concerning Plaintiff’s potential total recovery in relation to Carriger’s proportional liability is also incorrect. (See Motion, p. 6-7.)  The Court accordingly finds Defendants did not meet their burden of proof to demonstrate that the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to the Tech-Bilt factors to warrant denying the parties’ settlement agreement. (See Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500.) The Court thus finds Carriger’s agreement with Plaintiff represents a good faith settlement. RULINGThe Court GRANTS Carriger’s motion for determination of good faith settlement.