 Case Number:  23PSCV04012    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern
California Permanente Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Desiree Montserrat Rodriguez Chavez,
Jennifer Sofia Rodriguez Chavez, Sergio Jonathan Steve Rodriguez Chavez, and Adriana
Leticia Chavez Haro
 
TENTATIVE
RULING

Defendants
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern California Permanente Medical Center’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern California Permanente Medical Center
are ordered to file an Answer in ten (10) days.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wrongful death action. On May 31, 2023, the
Kaiser Permanente Ontario Medical Center (KPOMC) admitted Sergio Rodriguez
Jimenez for severe anxiety and suicidal ideation. On June 1, 2023, KPOMC
transferred Rodriguez Jimenez to Aurora Charter Oak Behavioral Health Center
(Aurora) via an ambulance service that was owned and operated by Defendants
American Medical Response Ambulance Service, Inc. (AMR Ambulance Service),
American Medical Response of Inland Empire, Inc. (AMR Inland Empire), American
Medical Response of Southern California, Inc. (AMR Southern California),
American Medical Response West, Inc. (AMR West), American Medical Response,
Inc. (AMR), and Global Medical Response, Inc. (GMR, collectively AMR
Defendants). After arriving at Aurora, Rodriguez Jimenez committed suicide by
stabbing himself with a pair of scissors allegedly obtained from the AMR
Defendants’ ambulance.
 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Desiree Montserrat
Rodriguez Chavez, Jennifer Sofia Rodriguez Chavez, Sergio Jonathan Steve
Rodriguez Chavez, and Adriana Leticia Chavez Haro filed a complaint against
Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (Kaiser), Southern California Permanente
Medical Center (Permanente), the AMR Defendants, and Does 1-30, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) wrongful death, (2) negligent infliction of
emotional distress (NIED) by Chavez Haro, (3) NIED by Jennifer Rodriguez Chavez,
and (4) survival by Chavez Haro.
 
On March 15, 2024, Kaiser and Permanente filed the present
demurrer. On May 20, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on their demurrer for
parties to further meet and confer. On May 21, 2024, Kaiser and Permanente’s
counsel met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
A hearing on the present demurrer is set for June 17, 2024,
along with a case management conference.
 
ANALYSIS

Kaiser and Permanente demur to Plaintiffs’
entire Complaint. For the following reasons, the court OVERRULES the demurrer in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard

A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Wrongful Death and Survival (First and
Fourth Causes of Action)
 
Kaiser and Permanente argue Plaintiffs’ first
cause of action for wrongful death and fourth cause of action for survival are
vague and ambiguous as to whether they are based on medical negligence and
subject to the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (MICRA). Court finds this is not proper grounds for sustaining a demurrer.
 
“Since the standard of care remains constant in terms of
‘ordinary prudence,’ it is clear that denominating a cause of action as one for
‘professional negligence’ does not transmute its underlying character. For
substantive purposes, it merely serves to establish the basis by which
‘ordinary prudence’ will be calculated and the defendant’s conduct evaluated.
Nor does it distinguish a claim separate and independent from some other form
of negligence.¿As to any given defendant, only one standard of care obtains
under a particular set of facts, even if the plaintiff attempts to articulate
multiple or alternate theories of liability.” (Flowers v. Torrance Memorial
Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992, 998 (Flowers).)
 
The distinction between ordinary and professional
negligence only becomes an issue when dealing with the different statutes of
limitations or MICRA’s limitations on professional negligence claims. (Id.,
at p. 998-999.) Here, Kaiser and
Permanente fail to argue how Plaintiffs’
wrongful death and survival claims are barred by MICRA. Instead, they merely
suggest general damages will be limited which the court finds is not a proper
basis for demurring. (Demurrer, p. 11:7-8.) Thus, the Court finds Kaiser and
Permanente failed to demonstrate how any distinction between professional and
ordinary negligence is material to Plaintiffs’ ability to state a claims for
wrongful death and survival based on negligence.
 
Accordingly, Kaiser and Permanente’s demurrer to this cause
of action is OVERRULED.
 
NIED (Second and Third Causes of Action)
 
Kaiser and Permanente contend Chavez Haro’s second
cause of action for NIED and Jennifer Rodriguez Chavez’s third cause of action
for NIED fail to allege they were aware that Kaiser and Permanente’s alleged
failure to medicate Rodriguez Jimenez was the cause of Rodriguez Jimenez’s
suicide. (Demurrer, p. 9:1-5.)  The court
disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
A plaintiff may recover for NIED on the
bystander theory—plaintiff can “recover damages for serious emotional distress
suffered as a result of an injury to a close family member” if plaintiff was
present and aware of the injury being caused—or the direct victim
theory—plaintiff can recover damages for emotional distress caused by a
defendant who already owed plaintiff a legal duty. (Gu v. BMW of North
America, LLC (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 195, 204.)
 
To recover on the bystander theory, the
plaintiff must be “present at the scene of the injury producing event at the time
it occurs and . . . aware that it is causing injury to the victim.” (Thing
v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 668 (Thing).) In subsequent cases,
courts have recognized that this rule requires plaintiffs to “experience a
contemporaneous sensory awareness of the causal connection between the
negligent conduct and the resulting injury.” (Goldstein v. Superior Court (1990)
223 Cal.App.3d 1415, 1427; see also Bird v. Saenz (2002) 28 Cal.4th 910,
921 [Thing requires “that the plaintiff must be contemporaneously aware
of the connection between the injury-producing event and the victim's injuries”].)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the Complaint alleges Chavez
Haro and Jennifer Rodriguez Chavez were advised that Rodriguez Jimenez would
receive medication to calm and control Rodriguez Jimenez’s anxiety and suicidal
ideations while awaiting transportation to Aurora. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) The
Complaint further alleges that the medication was not appropriately
administered. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) When Chavez Haro and Jennifer Rodriguez Chavez
witnessed Rodriguez Jimenez committing suicide at Aurora, the Complaint alleges
they observed Rodriguez Jimenez was suffering severe anxiety and distress.
(Complaint, ¶ 24.) The Complaint also alleges that they were aware that the
acts or omissions of all Defendants, including Kaiser and Permanente, caused
Rodriguez Jimenez’s worsening medical condition and led to Rodriguez Jimenez’s
suicide. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Last, the Complaint alleges they were aware Rodriguez
Jimenez was being injured by all Defendants, including Kaiser and Permanente,
when they witnessed Rodriguez Jimenez’s suicide. (Complaint, ¶ 25(B), 28(B).)
 
Based on these allegations, the the court
finds the Complaint adequately alleges Chavez Haro and Jennifer Rodriguez
Chavez were contemporaneously aware that Kaiser and Permanente’s alleged
failure to properly medicate Rodriguez Jimenez was the cause of Rodriguez
Jimenez’s suicide. Kaiser and Permanente contend Chavez Haro and Jennifer
Rodriguez Chavez could not have known that the alleged failure to properly
medicate Rodriguez Jimenez was the cause of the incident because they were not
present when the medication was or was not administered. (Demurrer, p. 9:1-5.) When
considering a demurrer, however, “we accept as true all the material facts
properly pleaded and we do not go beyond the four corners of the complaint,
except as to matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Thorburn v.
Department of Corrections (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1287-1288.) Thus, the
court must accept as true the allegation that Chavez Haro and Jennifer
Rodriguez Chavez had contemporaneous awareness of Kaiser and Permanente’s
alleged negligence as the cause of Rodriguez Jimenez’s death.
 
Accordingly, Kaiser and Permanente’s demurrer
to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Kaiser and Permanente’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety.
 
Defendants Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals and Southern California Permanente Medical Center are
ordered to file an Answer in ten (10) days.