 Case Number:  23PSCV02943    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Shuai Gao’s Motion to Quash Service of  Summons and Complaints Respondent: Plaintiff Piper  Wong TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Shuai Gao’s Motion to Quash Service of  Summons and Complaints is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This is a premises liability  action. In June 2022, Plaintiff Piper Wong fell out of a second story window at  a home in Diamond Bar. Wong alleges the window was in a dangerous condition as  it was accessible to children and had a broken screen. On September 25, 2023, Wong,  by and through guardian ad litem Jiamei Wang, filed a complaint against  Defendants Shuai Gao, Liu Yang, and Does 1-50, alleging (1) negligence and (2)  premises liability. On November 13, 2023, Wong’s process server served Yang  with substitute service in Walnut. On December 6, 2023, Wong  amended the Complaint to replace Doe 1 with Defendant Gao Shuai Trust Gao Shuai  Tr (Gao Shuai Trust). On February 12, 2024, Wong’s  process server served Gao and the Gao Shuai Trust with substitute service in  Diamond Bar. On March 19, 2024, Gao filed  the present motion. A hearing on Gao’s motion it set for June 17, 2024, along  with a case management conference and OSC Re: Default/Default Judgment as to  Gao and the Gao Shuai Trust. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Gao’s evidentiary objection  to Exhibit B in the declaration of Wong’s counsel is SUSTAINED. ANALYSIS Gao  moves to quash Wong’s service of summons on the grounds that the service was  improper. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS Gao’s motion. Legal  Standard Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, “[a] defendant, on or before the  last day of [their] time to plead or within any further time that the court may  for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o quash  service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over  [them].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) “When a defendant argues  that service of summons did not bring [them] within the trial court’s  jurisdiction, the plaintiff has ‘the burden of proving the facts that did give  the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.’”  (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383,  387.) The filing of a proof of service declaration ordinarily creates a  rebuttable presumption that the service was proper, but only if the service  declaration complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Lebel  v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1163 [internal quotations omitted].) Discussion In a proof of  service of summons filed on February 14, 2024, Wong’s process server states Gao  was served with substitute service through “Tenant, Yi Zhao” at 2684 Shady  Ridge Lane in Diamond Bar. The proof of service lists the Diamond Bar address  as Gao’s “usual mailing address” because Gao’s physical address is unknown. While  Wong’s process server did not attach a declaration of due diligence to the  proof of service itself, Wong provided a separate declaration by Taylor  Scarcella who was hired to locate and serve Gao. (Scarcella Decl., p. 1:27-2:4.)  Scarcella states investigators located multiple addresses for Gao in  California, Washington, and Canada. (Scarcella Decl., p. 2:6-7.) After  investigating the address in Washington, they determined Gao owned the Diamond  Bar address and may be residing in Canada. (Scarcella Decl., p. 2:15-18.) They  also spoke to Yi Zhao, a tenant at the Diamond Bar address, who confirmed that  Gao did not live at the Diamond Bar address. (Scarcella Decl., p. 2:25-3:4.) In moving to  quash the service of summons, Gao argues service of a tenant at the Diamond Bar  address was improper because the address was not Gao’s residence, place of  business, or usual mailing address. (Motion, p. 7:3-17.) Gao also provides a  declaration to support this contention and claims to be a resident of Canada.  (Gao Decl., ¶ 4.) In opposition, Wong argues Diamond Bar address was listed as  the mailing address for the Gao Shuai Trust. (Opp., p. 5:19-25.) But Wong  failed to provide any admissible evidence in support of this contention.  Furthermore, even if the Diamond Bar address could be treated as Gao’s mailing address  or usual place of business, substitute service is only allowed “[i]f a copy of  the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally  delivered to the person to be served.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)Here, despite  acknowledging investigators located an address for Gao in Canada and that Gao  “may also be residing in Canada,” Gao’s process server does not describe any attempt  to personally serve Gao at Gao’s address in Canada before proceeding with  substitute service at the Diamond Bar address. (Scarcella Decl., p. 2:7-18.)  Thus, because Wong’s process server failed to attempt personal service on Gao  with reasonable diligence, their substitute service of Gao at the Diamond Bar  address was improper. While Wong also requests a continuance of the present  motion in order for Wong’s process server to attempt service on Gao in Canada, such  service or attempts at service will not retroactively cure the defective  service at issue in the present motion. Accordingly,  Gao’s motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Gao’s  motion to quash Wong’s service of summons is GRANTED.