  Case Number:  22AHCV01340    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



Andy Meraz,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)
 


Case No.: 22AHCV01340
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
Date: February 6, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
 
 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          Andy Meraz purchased a new
Honda Accord in 2022. He sues Honda for defects he is alleged to have
experienced with the vehicle. The pleading alleges that the vehicle is equipped
with a defective driver-assistance safety system. The Honda Sensing system, also
called Collision Mitigation Braking System (CMBS), includes radar, cameras, and
a computer system. The purpose of the CMBS is to avoid front-end collisions by
detecting and computing things like vehicle speed and objects in the
road.  
Meraz alleges that the CBMS is capable of applying
brakes when it detects a chance of collision. The gist of the complaint is that
the system is defective and frequently malfunctions. It is alleged that system
can be thrown off by things such as bad weather and changes in the light on the
roadway. Meraz alleges that because of these defects, vehicles can be brought
to a sudden stop in the roadway, causing vehicles behind them to have to swerve
to avoid a collision. Meraz himself experienced several occasions when his
Honda braked on its own. He also complained that the speed limit on the
vehicle’s screen is often higher than the actual posted speed limit. Meraz
alleges he took his vehicle to an authorized repair facility a number of times
with these complaints but was told that the technicians were unable to
replicate the issue and that the vehicle was safe to drive.  
The complaint alleges two Song-Beverly cause of
action for breach of express and implied warranties. It also includes a third
cause of action for fraudulent concealment. Meraz alleges that Honda was aware
of the Honda Sensing defect and failed to disclose it.
On December 11, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff
Meraz’s motion to compel further responses to his Request for Production of
Documents No. 55. 
Before the Court is Honda’s motion for
reconsideration filed on December 21, 2023. Honda argues that: (1) the Cadena
class action is now a consolidated action; (2) the protective order in Cadena
has changed; and (3) the documents requested are not within Honda’s control and
are irrelevant in this action. 
The Court DENIES the motion for reconsideration.
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
American Honda’s Request for Judicial Notice
          American Honda requests judicial
notice of: (1) Plaintiffs’ Third Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint in
Kathleen Cadena, et al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and (2) Stipulated Amended
Protective Order in the same case. Because these documents are records of a
California court, the request for judicial notice is granted. (EC § 452(d).) 
          
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 provides, in
pertinent part: 
“(a)
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court
that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the
prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown. 
 
(b)
A party who originally made an application for an order which was refused in
whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent
application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure
to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may
be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion. 
… 
(e)
This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” (CCP § 1008(a), (b), (e).) 
A motion for reconsideration under § 1008 requires
that the moving party present new or different facts that were not previously
considered by the Court.  (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)  However, the burden under CCP
Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the
ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the
moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced
it at the trial.”  (Ibid.; Even Zohar Construction &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833
[finding that § 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not only show
new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show diligence with
a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different information
earlier…”].)  Reconsideration cannot be granted based on claims that the
court misinterpreted the law in its initial ruling because this is not a
"new" or "different" matter.  (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
          
IV.     ANALYSIS
A.
No New or Different Facts Before the Court
Here,
Honda urges that the December 11 order granting Meraz’s motion to compel
further responses should be reconsidered. The Court’s December 11 ruling ordered
a further response to Meraz’ Request for Production No. 55. In support of its
motion for reconsideration, Honda provides the Third Amended Complaint in
Cadena and the Stipulated Protective Order in Cadena  (both of which the Court has taken judicial
notice of). Honda also provides the declaration of its attorney, Theodore
Dorenkamp. In pertinent part, Dorenkamp declares “The documents produced by the
defendant in the Cadena Class Action were obtained by defense counsel from
numerous other entities, not from AHM.” (Dorenkamp Decl. ¶ 5.) He also declares
that “other of AHM’s documents numbering more than 4,600 pages contain
significant personally identifiable information that would have to be redacted
and could not be completed by the Court’s January 12, 2024, deadline.”
(Dorenkamp Decl. ¶ 9.) 
          Honda urges that it could not produce these facts earlier,
as it is responding to Meraz’s reply filed in support of the motion to compel, as
well as Meraz’s counsel’s arguments at the December 11 hearing. (See Kollander
Const. v. Super. Ct. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 304, 314.)
          Honda alternatively argues that the compelled response to
Request for Production No. 55 should be limited. (Motion p. 10: 3-4.)
Specifically, Honda urges “Discovery produced by third parties in a class
action involving vehicles and claims not at issue in this case does not pass
this test [relevancy].” (Motion p. 10: 19-20.) 
          In opposition, Meraz urges that the new facts, namely the
two documents filed in the Cadena action, were or should have been known
to Honda before the hearing on the motion to compel on December 11, 2023. Meraz’s
counsel notes that his reply was filed November 13, 2023, and the hearing was
not until December 11, 2023; so there was sufficient time for Honda to discover
these documents and submit a request for judicial notice before the December 11
hearing. (Opposition, p. 5: 3-5.) 
 Meraz also argues that the stipulated
protective order in Cadena is neither new nor relevant, as it contains
the same basic provisions as the one the Court took judicial notice of on
December 11. This argument is well-taken. Honda does not refute the similarity
of the two protective orders in their reply. 
Secondly, Meraz urges that the scope of the Cadena class action
is not relevant to the instant case. (Opposition p. 7: 14-15.) Meraz also urges
that Honda has not presented adequate explanation as to why these documents
were not presented earlier.
In
reply, Honda urges that, at the time that the motion to compel was scheduled to
be heard on November 20, 2023, Honda’s current counsel, Bowman and Brooke LLP,
did not represent Honda in the Cadena action and “would have no reason
or time to search the Cadena Class Action docket to challenge a Request
for Judicial Notice.” (Reply, p. 2: 9-10.) In support, Honda cites Garcia v.
Hejmadi for the proposition that a motion for reconsideration requires a
showing of reasonable diligence and a satisfactory explanation as to why the
information now presented was not presented at the first hearing.  (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690.) However, this does not clarify why Counsel did not
investigate Meraz’s November 13 request for judicial notice when the hearing
date was continued to December 11. Honda thus knew that opposing party Meraz
was seeking judicial notice of documents in the Cadena action.  
Additionally,
the third amended complaint in Cadena in fact contains allegations
regarding issues with the Honda Sensing systems (Cadena 3rd
Amended Complaint ¶¶ 24, 33). Though Cadena does not allege defects specifically
as to Plaintiff Meraz’s vehicle, a 2022 Honda Accord, it does allege that
earlier models, the 2018-2019 Honda Accords and 2017-2019 Honda CRVs, had
defects with the Honda sensing system. (Id. at ¶ 23.) Information as to
the same or similar system entitled “Honda Sensing” is potentially part of what
is at issue in this case.
          Accordingly, because Honda has not presented an adequate
explanation as to why it did not present these facts earlier, the Court denies
the motion for reconsideration.
 
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion for
reconsideration is denied. 
Plaintiff Meraz is ordered to give notice of
ruling.  
 
          
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 
 