  Case Number:  23STCV02371    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78MONTANA OASIS, INC., et al.Plaintiffs, vs.SEA RECOVERY 2, LLC, et al.Defendants.   Case No.: 23STCV02371 Hearing Date: June 25, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION TO APPROVE PARTNERSHIP INTEREST PURCHASE AGREEMENT FILED BY RECEIVER KEVIN SINGERThe motion to approve partnership interest purchase agreement filed by Receiver Kevin Singer is GRANTED.Receiver to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is a dispute over the purchase of a rehabilitation treatment and sober living services provider. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs Montana Oasis, Inc. (“Montana”) and Villa Adventures, LP (“Villa”), sole partners of Sea Change Santa Monica, LP (“Operator”), sold Operator to Defendant Sea Recovery 2, LLC (“Recovery”) in June 2022 for cash payments to be made over 450 days under a Unit Purchase Agreement (“UPA”). Defendants Littleton and Fennelly personally guaranteed Recovery’s obligations. Better Soul, Inc. (“Better Soul”), Resurgence of Tennessee, LLC (“Resurgence Tennessee”), Resurgence of TX, LLC (“Resurgence TX”), and Sea Change Recovery 2, LLC (“SCR2”) pledged substantially all of their assets to Plaintiffs as collateral. These Defendants insisted that Plaintiffs wait until after a default to perfect their security interests. Plaintiffs retained ownership of Operator until the purchase price was paid in full. Recovery was given limited management powers and duties. Recovery was forbidden from incurring, assuming, or guaranteeing any indebtedness without Plaintiff’s consent. Six weeks after the parties entered their agreement, Recovery caused Operator to take a $279,000 loan and pledged substantially all of Operator’s and certain Defendants’ personal property as collateral for that loan, used Operator’s revenue to repay the loan, and stole all the proceeds. Recovery also failed to make installment payments toward its purchase of Operator. The parties executed a Forbearance agreement in October 2022. Defendants admitted to their defaults and committed to paying $1,499,111.92 in installments. By December 2022, Defendants defaulted again after paying only $119,000. Better Soul made out a check for $45,000 and transferred $45,000 out of its account to ensure the check would bounce. DISCUSSIONReceiver Kevin Singer moves for court approval of the partnership interest purchase agreement between the Receiver and buyers Addiction Recovery Management, LLC and Addiction Recovery Center, LLC (collectively “Buyer”). The agreement states in pertinent part that Receiver will sell a 100% partnership interest in Sea Change Santa Monica, LP to Buyer in exchange for $155,000 conditioned upon Anthem’s approval of changes to a provider contract it had with Sea Change Santa Monica, LP. (Singer Decl., Exh. B.)Plaintiff opposes the sale, arguing (1) the Receiver does not have the power to create or destroy partnership interests and (2) the risks of the agreement outweigh the benefits. Code Civ. Proc., section 568.5 states: “A receiver may, pursuant to an order of the court, sell real or personal property in the receiver's possession upon the notice and in the manner prescribed by Article 6 (commencing with Section 701.510) of Chapter 3 of Division 2 of Title 9. The sale is not final until confirmed by the court.”A receivership court is not strictly bound to the procedure set forth in section 568.5. “Code of Civil Procedure section 568 grants receivers the general power ‘to do such acts respecting the property as the court may authorize.’ Read together, these provisions permit a court to tailor the method of sale of receivership property to the circumstances before it.” (County of Sonoma v. Quail (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 657, 684.) The receivership court has broad discretion in determining the proper manner of sale of the property. (Lesser Son v. Seymour (1950) 35 Cal.2d 494, 499 [“a court in an equity proceeding & has the power to change the manner of sale of property in its custody by a receiver appointed by it from that previously prescribed by it in the order directing the sale”].)Receiver’s Authority to Sell the Partnership InterestsA receiver’s powers are specified by the court in the appointment order. (Code Civ. Proc., section 568.) Here, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for a receiver on September 18, 2023. On September 27, 2023, the Court instructed the Receiver to wind down Sea Change Santa Monica, P and Sea Recovery 2, LLC (collectively, the “Business”). The order states in relevant part:“2) The Receiver shall commence the process of shutting down and winding up the Business. The Receiver is authorized to take any and all action he deems necessary or advisable to effectuate the process of shutting down and winding up the Business, including, but not limited to making final payroll payments to employees and/or contractors of the Business, and returning possession of the real properties where the Business operates to the respective owners of those real properties.”The Court granted the Receiver broad authority to take any and all action he deemed necessary to shut down and wind up the Business. The Court finds that this authority includes selling interests in the partnership, essentially selling the business. Plaintiffs argue that the partnership interests remain in the possession of Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs cite Corp. Code, section 15901.04, arguing that a partner’s transferable interest is a partner’s right to receive distributions which is not a partnership’s assets, but separate from the partnership.The original contract conveying the Business to Defendants already transferred 100% of the partnership interests of Sea Change of Santa Monica, LP to Sea Recovery 2, LLC. (Compl., pdf p. 26.) Thereafter, the Court ordered Defendants to turn over the Business, which includes Sea Recovery 2, and all its assets to the Receiver. Thus, although Plaintiffs are correct that a partnership interest is generally not a partnership’s own assets, but a partner’s transferable interest, Plaintiffs here have already transferred the partnership interests to Sea Recovery 2. Therefore, the partnership interests are now assets of the Business, which includes Sea Recovery 2, and the interests were turned over to the Receiver when the Court appointed him. The Receiver has the power to sell these interests.Whether the Sale is FairPlaintiffs argue that the proposed agreement is risky compared to its potential benefits. Plaintiffs argue that because the agreement is conditional upon Anthem’s approval of changes to their contract with Sea Change of Santa Monica, LP, which could take more than one year. Additionally, the Buyer would need to ensure a new location was licensed, which could take another 4-6 months. Plaintiffs allege that although the Buyer has agreed to pay $5,000 in receivership fees should the approval take more than five months, the Receiver cannot terminate the agreement until 12 months have passed since closing. Plaintiffs allege the wait could lead to the Receivership Estate Assets falling below $250,000 and that the assets will be tied up while the parties wait for the sale to be complete. Plaintiffs also argue that the Receivership Estate will be liable for indemnifying the seller for losses related to breaches of the agreement. “Judicial confirmation of a receiver's sale rests upon the appointing court's sound discretion exercised in view of all the surrounding facts and circumstances and in the interest of fairness, justice and the rights of the respective parties. [Citation.] The proper exercise of discretion requires the court to consider all material facts and evidence and to apply legal principles essential to an informed, intelligent, and just decision.” (Cal-American Income Property Fund VII v. Brown Development Cor. (1982) 138 Cal.App.3d 268, 273-74.) Confirmation is generally granted if the sale is necessary for the estate and fair to the respective parties. (Id.)As the Receiver notes, the business continues to have significant liabilities and outstanding receivables. (Singer Decl., ¶¶3-4.) The main source of outstanding receivables available to satisfy creditors is insurance payments which were issued and never received by the Business. (Id.) The partnership interest sale includes the sale of the Business’s remaining asset of value, its contract with Anthem. (Id., ¶5.) The $155,000 in proceeds from the sale will be sufficient to pay off all of the Business’s remaining creditors. (Id., ¶7.) Plaintiffs’ objections to the agreement stem from speculation that the wait for Anthem to approve changes and for the sale to be complete will result in receiver’s fees and other liabilities that will drain the receivership estate. Plaintiffs base this belief on Charles Rosenbleet’s personal experience waiting 18 months for Anthem to approve Sea Change of Santa Monica, LP, as a provider. (Rosenbleet Decl., ¶3.) Plaintiffs also argue that the process to negotiate this agreement took over nine months, further evidencing that the sale will take more time to complete. (Opp., p.5.)Plaintiffs’ concerns about the time it will take for this transaction to be complete are speculative. Plaintiffs’ objections are based on their previous experiences getting initial approval as a provider from Anthem. However, here, the Business is seeking changes to an existing contract with Anthem, not initial provider approval. Additionally, the process to negotiate this agreement did not include Anthem and is thus not a measure of the time Anthem will take to approve contract changes. Thus, there is no evidence that Anthem will take an unreasonable amount of time to approve these changes.Additionally, the terms of this agreement appear fair and necessary to allow the Business to wind down. As things stand, the Business has no assets readily available to pay off its remaining creditors. With no other solution, the Business’s debts are likely to remain and grow. Although Plaintiffs are concerned that the receivership estate will be liable for the seller’s losses for any breaches in the agreement, there is no evidence that there will be significant breaches or that the seller will suffer significant harm if the sale fails. Additionally, even if Anthem does take longer than 5 months to approve the changes, the Receiver would have the power to terminate the agreement in just 7 more months. There is no evidence that paying 7 more months of receiver’s fees would completely drain the receivership estate. Thus, doing nothing would be more damaging to the receivership estate than the mere risk that the receivership estate may bear some costs if this agreement fails. This solution is fair to all parties because the sale will allow the Business to pay off its creditors. Even if creditors’ claims to the partnership interests are stripped, their claims will attach to the funds held by the Receiver with the same extent, validity, and priority. If the sale succeeds, each creditor will be compensated in full. Defendants have not opposed this motion, meaning they have no objection to this sale. Because the Receiver has the power to sell partnership interests in Sea Change of Santa Monica, LP, the sale is necessary to winding down the Business, and the terms of the agreement appear fair to all parties, the Receiver’s motion is granted.DATED: June 25, 2024 ______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court