 Case Number:  24STCV04438    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  FELIX RIVERA, et al.,Plaintiffs,vs. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.,Defendants.  Case No.:  24STCV04438 Hearing Date:  June 25, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT FORD MOTOR COMPANY’S DEMURRERDefendant Ford’s demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED as to first through fourth causes of action and overruled as to the sixth cause of action.Leave to amend is granted as to the causes of action for breaches of express warranty (the first through third causes of action) and denied as to the cause of action for implied warranty (fourth cause of action).If Plaintiffs wish to file a first amended complaint, they must file and serve that complaint within 15 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for violations of the Song-Beverly Warranty Act and fraudulent inducement through concealment. Plaintiffs alleges that they purchased a 2017 Ford F150 in June 2017. The vehicle arrived with defects that Defendants failed to repair despite a reasonable number of opportunities. Plaintiffs allege that as early Defendants knew about a transmission defect in the Ford F150 vehicles and failed to disclose the defect when they sold the vehicle to Plaintiffs.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On February 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company (Ford) and Autonation Ford Torrance (Autonation). On March 25, 2024, Defendant Ford filed this demurrer.On June 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.On June 17, 2024, Ford filed a reply.DISCUSSION Defendant Demurs to the Complaint on the grounds that (1) each cause of action is barred under the applicable statute of limitations and (2) the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to support Plaintiffs’ causes of action for fraud.A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)Meet and ConferA party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) “The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)Here, Ford’s counsel testifies that he met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel and the parties could not resolve their dispute over the Complaint. (Liu Decl., ¶3.) Ford satisfies meet and confer requirements.1. First through fourth causes of action – Breach of Express and Implied Warranty ClaimsFord argues the first through fourth causes of action are time-barred because the Complaint was filed after the four-year statute of limitations had already passed. The first through fourth causes of action are for (1) violation of Civ. Code, section 1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civ. Code, section 1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civ. Code, section 1793.2(a)(3), and (4) breach of implied warranty of merchantability under Civ. Code, sections 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5. a. Express Warranty ClaimsIn general, an  express warranty does not cover repairs made after the applicable time or mileage periods have elapsed. (Daugherty v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 830.)Causes of action for breach of express warranty must be brought within four years after the cause of action accrues. (Cal. Commercial Code, section 2725(1).) “A cause of action accrues when the breach occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach.” (Id., subd. (2).) “A breach of warranty occurs when tender or delivery is made, except where a warranty explicitly extends to future performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of such performance the cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have been discovered.” (Id., subd. (3).)Here, Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges that they entered into a warranty contract with Ford in June 2017 and discovered defects with the vehicle shortly before filing this action on February 22, 2024. (Compl., ¶¶7, 36.) The alleged defects include transmission, electrical, engine, and other defects. (Compl., ¶12.) The attached 2017 warranty guide states Ford dealers would repair, replace, or adjust all parts of a vehicle that malfunction or fail during normal use during the warranty period. (Compl., p.32.) The warranty start date is the date of delivery or the first date the vehicle is put into service. (Compl., ¶25.) The extended warranty for the vehicle’s Powertrain components, which include the vehicle transmission and the engine, is five years or 60,000 miles, whichever comes first. (Compl., pp.33-34.) The vehicle’s bumper to bumper coverage, which covers all parts, is three years or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first. (Compl., p.31.) The next longest warranty period is 7-15 years for emissions defects depending on the type of type of vehicle. (Compl., p.41-42, 47.) The facts alleged show the warranty period expired for the engine, electrical, and transmission defects because the warranty period was five years for the engine and transmission defects and three years for all other defects not including emissions defects. The Complaint does not include allegations as to emissions defects. Because the Complaint alleges Plaintiffs discovered the defects and submitted the vehicle for repair shortly before filing this Complaint, the repairs or defects at issue took place or manifested seven years after the warranty period began, meaning the warranty period already expired.Although the Complaint states the vehicle’s nonconformities manifested themselves within the applicable warranty period, the attached exhibits show the warranty period was at most five years. (Compl., ¶12.) Allegations inconsistent with annexed documentary exhibits or facts judicially noticed may be disregarded. (Hoffman v. Smithwoods RV Park, LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 390, 400.) Here, the allegations in the Complaint regarding whether the defects manifested themselves during the warranty period which are inconsistent with the attached exhibits may be disregarded. Therefore, the Complaint fails to allege that the defects appeared within the express warranty period.The demurrer is sustained as to the first through third causes of action for breach of express warranty. b. Implied Warranty ClaimFord next argues that the breach of implied warranty is time-barred because it arises by operation of law and does not extend to future performance. Therefore, the discovery rule does not apply and the statute of limitations passed before Plaintiffs filed this action.Claims for breach of implied warranty are governed by the four-year statute of limitations in Commercial Code section 2725. (Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1306.) However, in contrast to express warranty, “because an implied warranty is one that arises by operation of law rather than by an express agreement of the parties, courts have consistently held it is not a warranty that ‘explicitly extends to future performance of the goods.” (Cardinal Health 301, Inc. v. Tyco Electronics Corp. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 116, 134.) Thus, breach of the implied warranty¿occurs only¿at the time of delivery.¿(Mexia, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 1304.)¿ “In the case of a latent defect, a product is rendered unmerchantable, and the warranty of merchantability is breached, by the existence of the unseen defect, not by its subsequent discovery.” (Id. at 1305; emphasis added.)¿Here, Plaintiffs filed this action seven years after the original purchase in June 2017. Regardless of when Plaintiffs discovered the defects, Plaintiffs’ deadline to bring a cause of action for breach of implied warranty was four years from the date of delivery. It is reasonable to infer that the date of delivery was around the date of purchase in June 2017. Because the statute of limitations had already run by the time Plaintiffs filed this action, the cause of action for breach of implied warranty is time-barred. Plaintiffs only discuss the discovery rule in opposition to the demurrer. However, as discussed above, the discovery rule does not apply to causes of action for breach of implied warranty because a breach may only occur at delivery. Therefore, the discovery rule would not toll the statute of limitations here.The demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action.2. Sixth cause of action – Fraudulent Inducement-ConcealmentFord first argues that the cause of action for fraud is time-barred.Code Civ. Proc., section 338(d) provides that an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake has a statute of limitations of three years. The cause of action does not accrue until the aggrieved party discovers the facts constituting the fraud or mistake. (Id.)Here, as discussed above, Plaintiffs allege they did not discover the defects in the subject vehicle until just before the Complaint was filed in March 2024. Plaintiffs could not have known of Defendants’ alleged fraud until after discovering the defects. Thus, this action is not time-barred. Although Ford argues that there are no specific facts about when the defects were discovered or when repair attempts were made, the allegation that Plaintiffs only recently discovered the defects is enough for statute of limitations purposes as to the fraud cause of action.Ford’s demurrer is overruled on this ground.SufficiencyFord next argues that the Complaint fails to plead a cause of action for fraud with sufficient specificity. Ford argues that Plaintiffs fail to plead the defect Ford allegedly concealed.“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) Ordinarily, ”fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)    Some cases, however, conclude that this standard is less stringent when the defendant already has “ ‘full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in a¿concealment¿case.  Unlike intentional misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation or promise, a fraudulent¿concealment¿is the absence of something, the suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code, section 1710.)  The courts have ruled that less specificity as to fraud claims is required if it appears from the nature of allegations that defendant must necessarily possess full information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-1385 [“it does not appear necessary to require each of the 38 plaintiffs to allege each occasion on which an agent of either defendant could have disclosed …. Surely defendants have records of their dealings with the plaintiffs”] accord Bushell v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 915, 931 [“plaintiffs did not have to specify the … personnel who prepared these documents because that information is uniquely within … [defendant’s] knowledge”].) “‘[T]he courts should not ... seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly technical requirements of form in pleading. Pleading facts in ordinary and concise language is as permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal construction of the pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in other cases.’” (Appollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 242.) Here, the Complaint alleges that Ford knew that vehicles equipped with the same 10-speed transmission as the subject vehicle suffered from one or more defects that can cause the vehicles to experience hesitation, delayed acceleration, harsh or hard shifting, jerking, shuddering, or juddering. (Compl., ¶24.) Despite knowing of these defects, Ford failed to disclose the transmission defect and its safety risks. (Compl., ¶80.) Plaintiffs would not have purchased the vehicle had they known of the alleged defect. (Id.)Ford argues Plaintiffs failed to state what the alleged defect in the subject vehicle is. However, the Complaint does indicate that it is a defect in the transmission which causes the specific listed problems with the operation of the vehicle. This is sufficient. The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Duty to DiscloseFord next argues that the FAC fails to allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.Absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties (which Plaintiffs do not allege here), a duty to disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also suppressing the material fact. (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) These scenarios presuppose the existence of some relationship between the parties, meaning a relationship between the two parties must exist before a duty to disclose may arise. (Id.) The California Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties”]; Kovich v. Paseo Del Mar Homeowners Ass'n (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 863, 866-867 [no duty to disclose where complaint alleged no facts that defendant “acted as a seller, was a party to [a]contract, or assumed a special relationship” with plaintiff.]) For example, in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc, “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought [a] car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.” (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844.) The court concluded that at the pleading stage, these allegations sufficiently alleged a relationship which could give rise to a duty to disclose.The Court notes that, at this time, the California Supreme Court has granted review of Dhital. In light of that pending review, the Court overrules the demurrer as to this ground.Economic Loss RuleFinally, Ford argues Plaintiffs’ claim is barred by the economic loss rule.The economic loss rule posits that a purchaser of a product that does not live up to the buyer’s expectations can only recover in contract and not tort, “unless [the purchaser] can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (quoting Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. v. Dana Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988).) A tort claim for fraud must be sufficiently independent from a breach of contract claim for which the plaintiff suffered economic loss. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 991.) Thus, in order to plead around the economic loss rule, a party must plead the existence of a duty that arises independent of any contractual duty and independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises from the breach of that duty. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 988-91.)  Further, under California law, conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law. (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) An omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort unless that omission is also an omission of a legal duty.¿(Id.) Examples of cases permitting tort damages in contract cases are the following: 1) breaches of contractual duties that cause physical injuries; 2) breaches of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts; 3) wrongful discharge in violation of public policy; and4) the fraudulent inducement of a contract. (Id. at 551-552.)Here, because Plaintiffs bring a cause of action for fraudulent inducement, the economic loss rule would not apply here. Therefore, the demurrer is overruled on this ground.Leave to AmendThe burden is on Plaintiffs to show in what manner the complaint may be amended and how the amendment would change the legal effect of his pleading. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335.) Here, Plaintiffs argue they would allege the pertinent attempted repairs took place on specific dates within the applicable statute of limitations. Leave to amend is therefore granted as to the express warranty causes of action. The Court does not see how the defect with the implied warranty cause of action may be cured. Therefore, leave to amend is denied as to this cause of action.DATED: June 25, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court