 Case Number:  24STCV11976    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 22, 2025                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jane J.G. Doe, et al. v. Los Angeles
Unified School District; Jane D.R. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV11967 [lead case] related with 24STCV20851            
 
MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Jane J.G. Doe; Jane K.R. Doe; John J.G.
Doe; John S.R. Doe; Jane J.A. Doe; and Jane T.D. Doe,
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/13/24: Complaint filed [lead case]
·        
07/12/24: Request for Dismissal as to Defendant
Mark Berndt [lead case].
·        
08/16/24: Complaint filed [related case].
·        
11/14/24: Cases deemed related. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            These are a pair of childhood sexual abuse actions. Plaintiffs are former
students in the Los Angeles Unified School District who were sexually abused by
now-dismissed Defendant Mark Berndt, who was convicted and incarcerated for the
abuse. Plaintiffs allege that the Los Angeles Unified School District ignored
or concealed the abuse until it was independently discovered. 
 
Plaintiffs move to consolidate this
action with the related action Jane D.R. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School
District, LASC Case No. 24STCV20851 for all purposes. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Consolidation is GRANTED.
 
The action Jane
D.R. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District, LASC Case No. 24STCV20851
is consolidated with this action for all purposes. This action shall be
designated the lead case. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move to consolidate this
action with the related action Jane D.R. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School
District, LASC Case No. 24STCV20851 for all purposes. 
 
Legal Standard for Consolidation
 
When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters
in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary
costs or delay. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a), bold emphasis added.) 
 
Procedural Requirements 
 
A motion to consolidate must satisfy the requirements of
California Rules of Court Rule 3.350, which provides, in relevant part: 
 
(a)
Requirements of motion 
 
(1) A
notice of motion to consolidate must: 
 
(A) List
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record; 
 
(B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and 
 
(C) Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The
motion to consolidate: 
 
(A) Is
deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing
fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed
only in the lowest numbered case; 
 
(B) Must be
served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
 
(C) Must
have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.350(a).) 
 
Although Plaintiffs set forth each non-dismissed party and
counsel in the Notice of Motion, Plaintiffs do not specify whether the parties
listed have appeared in each case in the notice of motion, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(A). That said, the Court observes that Defendant Berndt has been
dismissed from the lead case as of July 12, 2024, and that Defendant LAUSD
filed a demurrer in the lead case on July 2 and an answer in the related case on
October 8, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs have also set forth the full captions of both
cases, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(B). However, the notice of motion was
not filed in the related action, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(C).  
 
As both sets of Plaintiffs and Defendants share the same
respective counsels of record, Plaintiffs, by serving Defendant’s counsel in
this case, have served the attorneys of record for each party, as required by
Rule 3.350(a)(2)(B), and included a proof of service as required by subdivision
(C). Moreover, although Plaintiffs have not strictly complied with the
procedural requirements of a motion to consolidate, Defendant has not objected
to the motion for procedural deficiencies or lack of notice. The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiffs have given fair notice of this motion and will
consider the motion on its merits.
 
Consolidation of Actions for All Purposes
 
            Plaintiffs
seek to consolidate these two childhood sexual abuse actions for all purposes. 
 
Whether
separate actions shall be consolidated for trial is a matter within the
discretion of the trial court and its decision will not be disturbed on appeal
absent a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (Citation omitted.) . . . ‘A
consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of the parties. The purpose
of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience and economy by avoiding
duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common to both
actions.’ (Citation omitted.)  
 
(Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.) 
 
Plaintiffs contend that
consolidation of these matters for all purposes is appropriate because the cases
concern a common course of conduct, similar claims, and substantially similar
legal and factual issues. The Complaint in this action alleges that Berndt
sexually abused the Plaintiffs between the 2003 and 2009 school years. (See
Complaint ¶ 49.) The Complaint in the related action alleges that Berndt
engaged in similar conduct as to the Plaintiff in that action during the 2004
and 2005 school years—i.e., during the same period as this action. (See
Complaint [related case] ¶ 44.) Defendant does not oppose consolidating this
action for “case management and discovery” (Opposition p.2:3-4) but contends
that consolidation for trial is “premature.” Defendant asserts that, because
each of the seven Plaintiffs were students at different times, not all claims
are relevant to each Plaintiff, and, of more importance on this motion, not all
claims in this action are relevant to claims in the other action. For example,
Defendant argues that notice events occurring in 2008 and 2009 alleged in this
action are not relevant to the claims in the related action, which alleges
misconduct between 2004 and 2005. (See Complaint [related action] ¶ 44(a)(i).) Defendant
also argues that some of the Plaintiffs, including the related action, allege
abuse as part of the after-school program rather than in Berndt’s class. (Complaint
¶ 49(c)(i); Complaint [related action] ¶ 44(a)(i).) Defendant thus contends
that the two Complaints raise different issues with respect to access and
supervision, and, therefore, that the potential complexity of the two cases
militate against consolidation for trial at this juncture. 
 
The Court is not persuaded by
Defendant’s position. First, Defendant’s argument regarding the complexity of
the two cases misconstrues the issues. Although the Complaint in the related
action does not allege an identical set of facts as the universe of allegations
asserted in the instant Complaint, Defendant’s own argument demonstrates that
the Complaint in the related action aligns with a subset of the claims already
asserted in this case. For example, both complaints allege abuse as part of the
after-school program, and allege abuse occurring between 2004 and 2005. (See
Complaint ¶¶ 49(c)-(e); Complaint [Related Action] ¶ 44.) Thus, consolidation
of the related action into this action would not appear to create substantially
more complexity than already exists. Moreover, as Plaintiffs argue in reply, consolidation
for all purposes except trial is not a valid form of consolidation. (Hamilton
v. Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147 [the two types of
consolidation are consolidation for trial only or consolidation for all
purposes].) 
 
On this record, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs have demonstrated the existence of common questions of law and
fact such that consolidation for all purposes is warranted. In so finding, the
Court does not reject the possibility that subsequent developments will warrant
severance of certain issues or a partitioned trial, and this ruling is
therefore without prejudice to any motion for such relief. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Consolidation is GRANTED. 
 
            The
action Jane D.R. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District, LASC
Case No. 24STCV20851 is consolidated with this action for all purposes. This
action shall be designated the lead action. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 22,
2025                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 