 Case Number:  24STCV11895    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 22, 2025                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Academy of Media Arts, et al. v. City of
Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV11895            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Los Angeles.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Academy
of Media Arts and D’Camp Hospitality Group, LLC.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/10/24: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a tort action for intentional interference with contract and
prospective economic advantage and related claims. Plaintiffs are former
tenants at the L.A. Grand Hotel who allege that Defendant induced the owner of
the Hotel to breach their lease agreements and impede their respective business
ventures by converting a portion of the hotel into temporary housing for
persons experiencing homelessness during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint
in its entirety and moves to strike portions of the Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the causes of
action already pled, but with leave to amend as to any claims for
statutory violations grounded in the same set of facts, and as to
compliance with the claim presentation requirement. 
 
Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to file a First Amended Complaint.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Complaint in its entirety. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            Defendant
filed a Declaration of Demurring Party Regarding Meet and Confer on Judicial
Council Form CIV-140 stating that counsel for the parties were not able to
agree on a date for the partes to meet and confer in person or via telephone
before the expiration of Defendant’s time to respond to the Complaint.
(Declaration of Demurring Party Attachment ¶¶ 2-6.) Defendant has therefore
satisfied its statutory meet and confer obligations. 
 
//
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Complaint in its entirety on the grounds that (1) all of
Plaintiffs’ claims are common-law tort claims for which Defendant, as a
municipal entity, is immune; and (2) Plaintiffs have failed to allege
compliance with the claim presentation requirement of the Government Tort
Claims Act. 
 
            Plaintiffs
have alleged two causes of action for “Inducing Breach of Contract,” two causes
of action for intentional interference with contractual relations; two causes
of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage; one
cause of action for aiding and abetting fraud, and one cause of action for
aiding and abetting intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage. (See generally Complaint.)
 
            Inducement
of breach of contract, intentional interference with contract, and intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage are judicially-created
common-law torts. (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. Inc. (1995)
11 Cal.4th 376, 381.) Similarly, “aiding and abetting” is the commission of an
independent tort grounded “on the common law rule for subjecting a defendant
for liability for aiding and abetting a tort.” (E.g. Austin B. v. Escondido
Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 879.) Under Government Code
section 815 subdivision (a), public entities are not liable for an injury
except as provided by statute. (Gov. Code § 815(a).) Thus, section 815 “abolishes
all common law or judicially declared forms of liability for public entities,
except for such liability as may be required by the state or federal
constitution.” (Miklosy v. Regents of Univ. of California (2008) 44
Cal.4th 876, 899 [emphasis in original].) As all eight of Plaintiffs’ causes of
action are judicially-created common-law torts, they are expressly precluded by
Government Code section 815. 
 
Plaintiffs argue in opposition that
the facts alleged in the Complaint set forth breaches of Defendant’s mandatory
statutory duties. Statutory claims must be pled with particularity, including
identification of the applicable statutes. (Sullivan v. City of Sacramento (1987)
190 Cal.App.3d 1070, 1080.) Although Plaintiffs’ opposition identifies
Civil Code section 3479 and Government Code section 815.6 as a basis for
Defendant’s liability, no corresponding allegations are present in the
Complaint. This contention therefore fails to rescue Plaintiffs’ common-law
tort claims. 
 
            Defendants
also argue that nothing in the Complaint offers any indication, even under the most
favorable interpretation, that Plaintiffs presented a written claim for damages
to Defendant in accordance with the Government Tort Claims Act before bringing
this action, or that they were relieved from that obligation. (Gov. Code § 905;
see generally Complaint.) Although Plaintiffs assert that their claims were
presented, they offer no citation to the pleadings demonstrating such an
allegation, and no allegation to that effect is readily apparent. The Court
therefore concurs with Defendant that the Complaint is deficient on this
separate basis. 
 
            As the
Complaint is founded on impermissible common-law tort claims against a public
entity and has failed to allege compliance with the claim presentation
requirement, Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint must be SUSTAINED in its
entirety. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs have not expressly demonstrated how the Complaint might be amended
to cure the deficiencies raised on this Demurrer. Indeed, with respect to the
common-law claims alleged in the instant Complaint, amendment is impossible in
the face of Defendant’s immunity from common-law tort claims. That said,
Plaintiffs’ opposition sets forth alternative theories of liability in the form
of claimed violations of statutory duties premised on the same facts. (See
Opposition p.4:8-15.) Thus, precedent commands that the Court permit Plaintiffs
an opportunity to assert those theories. (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152
Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Further, with respect to the claim presentation
requirement, the failure of the Complaint is rooted entirely in the absence of
information, rather than a fatal concession. Plaintiffs must therefore be
granted an opportunity to set forth specific facts showing compliance with the
claim presentation requirement. (Id.)
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the
causes of action already pled, but with leave to amend as to any
claims for statutory violations grounded in the same set of facts, and
as to compliance with the claim presentation requirement. 
 
Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to file a First Amended Complaint.
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            Defendant
also moves to strike portions of the Complaint. As the Court has sustained
Defendant’s demurrer in its entirety, the Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the causes of
action already pled, but with leave to amend as to any claims for
statutory violations grounded in the same set of facts, and as to
compliance with the claim presentation requirement. 
 
Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to file a First Amended Complaint.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 22,
2025                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 