 Case Number:  23AHCV01097    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



GEOFF ANTONIO HEDGEPETH, an
  individual, and G.A. Public Adjusters, a California LLC,
 
                                           
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
NASSIM
  SAEEDY, an individual; NOAH SAEEDY, an individual; ARIA LANGUAGE SERVICES, an
  unknown business entity; and DOES 1-40, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV01097
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ UNOPPOSED SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE WITHOUT LEAVE
  TO AMEND
 
Date:   October
  3, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.
       INTRODUCTION
          This is a defamation action.
Plaintiffs Geoff Antonio Hedgpeth and his company G.A. Public Adjusters (GAPA) sue
former clients, alleging that they posted false and defamatory reviews on
Google’s review section for GAPA. Defendants deny posting the reviews but argue
that the posts are, in any event, defensible as true.
          Before the Court is Defendants’
unopposed special motion to strike. The motion and supporting evidence
adequately establish that Defendants are being sued for conduct that is
protected speech under Code Civ. Proc. §425.16. Having established this, the
burden shifted to Plaintiffs to demonstrate the probable validity of the
claims. Inasmuch as  Plaintiffs have failed
to oppose the motion, this burden was not met. The motion is therefore granted,
without leave to amend.    
          
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. §425.16, the anti-SLAPP statute, provides
for a special motion to strike. “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate
defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected
rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at
an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.” Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384, italics in original.
          The anti-SLAPP statute applies where a party is being sued
for an act in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech,
including: “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law; (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law;
(3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public
or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest; or (4) any
other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” Section 425.16(e).
          “[W]e may summarize a court’s task in ruling on an
anti-SLAPP motion to strike as follows. Section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1)
requires the court to engage in a two-step process. First, the court decides
whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of
action is one arising from protected activity. The moving defendant’s burden is
to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken
‘in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the
United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue,’ as
defined in the statute. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds such a
showing has been made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. Under section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(2), the trial court in making these determinations considers ‘the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.’” Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67 (Equilon).
          
          III.     DISCUSSION
          Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion requires consideration of
essentially three questions: 
          (1) is the motion timely? 
          (2) has the defendant shown he or she is being sued for
engaging in activity that is protected by the statute? 
          (3) if so, has the plaintiff shown a probability of
prevailing on the merits?
 
          A. Timing
          This motion was timely filed within 60 days of service of
the summons and complaint, as required by Code Civ. Proc. §425.16(f).
 
          B. Step One – Protected Activity
          Defendants bear the burden of making a threshold showing of
protected activity, and to do so by reference to the pleadings and/or
affidavits. Equilon, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 67. When the complaint
itself alleges protected activity a moving party may rely on the pleadings
alone, even if they deny engaging in the conduct alleged. Bel Air Internet,
LLC v. Morales (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 924, 929 and 936 [“The prong one
inquiry concerns the decision ‘whether the defendant has made a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity.’ (Navellier, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 88, 124
Cal.Rptr.2d 530, 52 P.3d 703.) A claim arises from protected activity when that
activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim. (Cotati, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 78, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 519, 52 P.3d 695.) A plaintiff’s complaint
ultimately defines the contours of the claims.]. 
          Here, Defendants are able to meet their burden by
identifying the allegations supporting the invasion of privacy/false light and
defamation per se causes of action in the Complaint. Their memorandum of points
and authorities identifies the statements Defendants are alleged to have made
in the Google review at page 8: 
          “The Google Reviews at issue read as follows:  
          a. ‘Be very careful Geoff is a shyster with very little
actual real world knowledge.’ (Complaint at p.4, line 16.)          
          b. ‘Will he get a recovery yes if you have a real claim but
will it be [fair] NO.’  (Id. at
p.5, line 4.)           
          c. ‘One thing you can take to the bank is if you have them
represent you you will get far less than you would handling the mater [sic] yourself
or doing the smart thing and using a knowledgeable PA.’  (Id. at p.5, lines 7-9.)          
          d. ‘Geoff has been investigated by the insurgence [sic]
commissioner and has a pending fraud case’ (Id. at p.5, lines
11-12.)           
          e. ‘This company is a crook I would give them -5 *if I was
able to’ (Id. at p.5, line 26.)”  
          Defendants argue, correctly, that this is protected speech.
It is settled law that publicly available internet sites qualify as public
places for purpose of the statute. Wong v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th
1354, 1366, collecting cases. Further, “consumer information that goes beyond
the particular interaction between the parties and implicates matters of public
concern that can affect many people is generally deemed to involve an issue of
public interest for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.” Ibid. 
In Wong,
a dentist sued former patients who posted a negative Yelp review. Because the
post included information about the type of material the dentist used to fill
teeth (a silver amalgam containing mercury, which can be controversial) it was
found to involve a matter of public interest. 
          Defendants are being sued for allegedly posting a negative
review about Plaintiffs and the review contains facts going beyond their
particular interaction. According to the Complaint, the negative review
indicated that Hedgepeth was a “shyster” with “very little actual real world
knowledge.” This is the kind of communication that involves the public interest
and is therefore protected. Consequently, based on the pleading itself, Defendants
are able to meet their burden. Defendants are sued for engaging in protected
speech.     
          Defendants offer a number of declarations in support of
their motion. However, that evidence is not generally aimed at the protected
speech issue, but rather Defendants’ probability of prevailing. The evidence is
therefore not summarized here.  The Court
notes, however, that Defendants assert they are not responsible for the Google
reviews that form the basis for Plaintiffs’ Complaint. Declaration of Noah
Saeedy, ¶14 (Noah did not publish the reviews nor did he authorize anyone at
his company, Aria Language Services, to do so); Declaration of Nassim Saeedy,
¶4 (Nassim did not author or publish the reviews). 
 
          C. Step Two – Probability of Prevailing
          “[I]n order to establish the requisite probability of
prevailing (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1)), the plaintiff need only have ‘ “stated and
substantiated a legally sufficient claim.” ’ 
(Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19
Cal.4th 1106, 1123, 81 Cal.Rptr.2d 471, 969 P.2d 564 (Briggs), quoting Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 412, 58
Cal.Rptr.2d 875, 926 P.2d 1061 (Rosenthal).) ‘Put another way, the
plaintiff “ ‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and
supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ” ’ (Wilson
v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821, 123
Cal.Rptr.2d 19, 50 P.3d 733, quoting Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 539, 548, 46 Cal.Rptr.2d 880.)” Nevellier v. Sletten (2002)
29 Cal.4th 82, 88-89.
          A plaintiff’s burden on step two has been compared to that
of a party opposing summary judgment. Varian Medical Systems v. Delfino (2005)
35 Cal.4th 180, 192. Plaintiffs’ burden at this stage is to make a prima facie
showing supported by facts.
          As this motion is unopposed, Plaintiffs have failed to
carry this burden.     
                    
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Defendants’ unopposed special motion to strike is granted.
Defendants have met their burden of demonstrating that they have been sued for
engaging in conduct that is protected under Code Civ. Proc. §425.16. Plaintiffs
failed to oppose the motion or come forward with any evidence demonstrating the
probable success of their claims. The motion is therefore granted, without
leave to amend.
          Defendants’ reserve the right to seek attorney fees by way
of separate motion.
          Defendants are ordered to lodge a proposed Judgment of
Dismissal within 10 days, and to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT