 Case Number:  24VECV03667    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV03667 WISAM SALEM vs
LANDMARK ESCROW
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Landmark Escrow, Inc.’s Demurrer to
the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Introduction 
Defendant Landmark Escrow, Inc.
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Wisam Salem’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for negligence and the second COA for breach of fiduciary
duty.
Plaintiff filed a Notice of
Errata asserting that the opposition filed on November 5, 2024 at 10:28 AM was
incorrectly filed and is a draft version of the opposition.  The Court did not review the opposition filed
at 10:28 AM but reviewed the Amended Opposition filed on the same day at 1:32
PM.  
Discussion 
Defendant argued that there are
insufficient facts to show that a duty of care was owed or that any duty was
breached or that any breach by Defendant caused Plaintiff’s damages.  Defendant asserted that the scope of the duty
of an escrow agent, although a limited agent and fiduciary to the parties of
the escrow, is to “comply strictly with the escrow instructions” but “has no
general duty to police the affairs of its depositors.”  (Summit Financial Holdings, Ltd. v.
Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002)27 Cal.4th 705.)  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant emailed
wiring instructions to Plaintiff for the deposit of funds but days later
Plaintiff received a phishing email or spoof email wherein a third-party
criminal scammed Plaintiff to deposit the funds in an account other than
Defendant’s account.  (Compl. pars.
10-12.)  Defendant argued that their
instructions were not alleged to be incorrect or in any way deficient.  Plaintiff admittedly did not follow
Defendant’s instructions but fell victim to a phishing scam.  On these allegations, the Court finds
Defendant’s argument as to duty, breach, and causation to be persuasive.
Plaintiff asserted that Defendant
is an agent and fiduciary of the parties to the escrow and  failed to use the ordinary skill, care, and
diligence of an escrow holder.  However,
Plaintiff submits that the escrow holder’s duty to perform with “ordinary skill
and diligence” is limited to “carrying out the escrow instructions.”  (CACI no. 4104;  Amen v. Merced county Title Co. (1962) 58
Cal.2d 528, 532; Common Wealth Ins. Systems, Inc. v. Kersten (1974) 40
Cal.App.3d 1014, 1030; Virtanen v. O’Connell (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 688,
696.)  Despite Plaintiff’s contention
otherwise, escrow holders do not have a generalized duty of care outside the
confines of the escrow instructions. 
“[N]o liability attaches to the escrow holder for [its] failure to do
something not required by the terms of the escrow or for a loss incurred while
obediently following [the] escrow instructions.” (Lee v. Title Ins. & Trust
Co. (1968) 264 Cal.App.2d 160, 163.)  The
duty is to comply with the escrow instructions with ordinary skill and diligence
and failure to do so makes an escrow holder liable for tort damages.  Plaintiff fails to allege any facts to plead
that a duty to protect the parties to the escrow from third-party fraud/crime
is an express obligation or instruction in the escrow instruction at
issue.  If the escrow instruction
expressly obligates Defendant to such a duty, then there would be sufficient
fact pleading to support the alleged duty. 
The Court finds Defendant’s argument to be persuasive that there are
insufficient facts to support the element of duty under both COAs.
Plaintiff does not argue that any
obligation/instruction to protect from fraud/crime exists in the escrow
instructions.  Without facts showing that
the escrow instruction includes a duty to protect the parties to the escrow,
Plaintiff failed to show that the pleading defect can be cured.
Without sufficient fact pleading
as to a duty owed, there is insufficient fact pleading to allege breach or
causation.
The demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.