  Case Number:  20STCV46551    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  34 Defendants Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, and Roger
Merians’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Background

 
On December 4, 2020, Plaintiffs
Spaciot, LLC and Alessandro Paciotti (collectively, the “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Duc Pham, Vincent Pham, Verona Street Holdings,
LLC, Barry Mason Enterprises, LP, Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, Roger
Merians, and Daniel Hinman alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.              
Breach of Contract; 
2.              
Negligence; 
3.              
Negligent Misrepresentation; 
4.              
Fraud; and 
5.              
Breach of Fiduciary Duty. 
 
On October 19, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
On November 17, 2022, Defendants
Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, and Roger Merians filed their answer to
Plaintiffs’ FAC.  
 
On November 18, 2022, Defendant
Daniel Hinman filed his answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC.  
 
On January 6, 2023, Defendants Duc
Pham, Vincent Pham, and Verona Street Holdings, LLC filed their answer to
Plaintiffs’ FAC.  
 
On January 25, 2023, by request of
Plaintiffs, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Defendant Barry
Mason Enterprises, LP. 
 
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiffs
amended their FAC by substituting Doe 1 with Eddie Navarrette.  
 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).  
 
On September 12, 2023, Defendants
Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, and Roger Merian filed an answer to
Plaintiffs’ SAC.  
 
On October 12, 2023, the court
sustained Defendant Eddie Navarrette’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC with leave
to amend. 
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). 
 
On November 22, 2023, Defendant
Eddie Navarrette filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ TAC.  
 
On November 27, 2023, Defendants
Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, and Roger Merian filed an answer to Plaintiffs’
TAC.[1]  
 
On August 29, 2024, Defendants
Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, and Roger Merian (“Broker Defendants”)
filed this Motion for Summary Judgment. On October 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
an opposition. On November 7, 2024, Broker Defendants filed a reply. 
Legal
Standard
“A party may move for summary
judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no
merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may
be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in
the action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or
at any earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or
without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. That is because of the
general principle that a party who seeks a court’s action in his favor bears
the burden of persuasion thereon. There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment
standards in Aguilar to motions for summary adjudication].)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.)
 
“The trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a fact finder to determine whose version is more
likely true. Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the
court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder, supra, at p. 840,
citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Dep’t of Transp.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)
 
Discussion
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Pending
 
Factual Background
 
            In January
2019, Plaintiff Alessandro Paciotti (“Paciotti”),  purchased a two-story restaurant (“Blossom”) from
Defendants Duc Pham and Vincent Pham (“Seller Defendants”). (Undisputed
Material Facts (“UMF”), Nos. 12-14.) To operate Blossom, Paciotti set up
Plaintiff entity Spaciot, LLC (“Spaciot”) and leased the property at 4019 W.
Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90029 where Blossom was located. (Ibid.) The
property consisted of two floors, a street and underground level, that Seller
Defendants used for customer dining. (Id., No. 15.) Broker Defendants
were the listing agents of Blossom and advertised it as a two-story restaurant
in September 2018. (Id., No. 16.) 
 
Broker Defendants were informed by Seller
Defendants that the underground level was used for customer dining, and the
property’s Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) contained a diagram of the
underground level referring to it as a “customer area”. (Id., Nos.
17-18.) Seller Defendants provided the CUP to Broker Defendants during the
listing of Blossom, which was prepared by Seller Defendants’ consultant,
Defendant Eddie Navarrette (“Navarrette”). (Id., Nos. 20-22.) 
 
            In October
2018, Broker Defendants were contacted by Plaintiffs’ consultant, Defendant
Daniel Hinman (“Hinman”), to purchase Blossom. (Id., Nos. 26-27.) Plaintiffs
relied on Hinman to inspect the premises for ADA compliance and ensured that
all permits for the restaurant were in order, including the extension permit to
use the underground level for customer dining. (Id., Nos. 28-29.)
Plaintiffs were also provided with the CUP. (Id., No. 30.) 
 
            Prior to
closing the purchase of Blossom, the parties discovered that Seller Defendants
had sold alcohol in the premises for 5 years without the necessary permits due
to Navarrette’s failure to acquire an alcohol license. (Id., Nos. 30-34.)
As such, Broker Defendants acted as dual agents for Plaintiffs and Seller
Defendants in the sale of Blossom and lease of the premises securing a lower
sale price for Plaintiffs. (Id., Nos. 35-37.) 
 
Before purchasing Blossom,
Plaintiffs were informed by Hinman that aside from the alcohol license, all
other permits were in order. (Id., No. 38.) Nevertheless, Plaintiffs discovered
that the underground level could not be used to seat customers as it was not
ADA compliant. (Id., No. 39.) Plaintiffs subsequently hired Broker
Defendants to sell Blossom. (Id., No. 41.) Broker Defendants found a
buyer around May 2020, but Plaintiffs’ refused to sell. (Id., Nos.
42-43.) 
 
Merits 
 
            Broker
Defendants move for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary
adjudication, as to Plaintiffs’ causes of action for (1) negligent
misrepresentation, (2) intentional misrepresentation, and (3) breach of
fiduciary duty. 
 
A.             
Negligent Misrepresentation 
To establish a cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, Plaintiff must show: (1) the
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another's
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage. (Tindell v. Murphy (2018)
22 Cal. App. 5th 1239, 1252.) 
“California courts have
recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty to
communicate accurate information, in two circumstances. The first situation
arises where providing false information poses a risk of and results in physical
harm to person or property. The second situation arises where information is
conveyed in a commercial setting for a business purpose.” (Friedman v. Merck
& Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.) 
Broker Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs’ cause of action for negligent misrepresentation fails as there
was sufficient information to justify a reasonable broker to conclude that the
underground level of the Blossom premises could be used for customer dining as
advertised. (MSJ, at pp. 12-13.) Broker Defendants contend that Seller
Defendants informed Broker them that the Blossom premises consisted of two
levels which were used for customer dining. (Merians Decl., ¶ 6.) Broker
Defendants also relied on the CUP issued that regarded the underground level as
a “customer area”. (Merians Decl., ¶¶ 7-10, Exh. 7.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs
dispute that the CUP allowed for the sale and consumption of alcohol on the
underground level as the conditions of the CUP were not met rendering it
invalid. (Opp., at p. 3.) Plaintiffs also dispute Broker Defendants’ assertion
that they did not know that the underground level could not be used a dining
area. (Id., at p. 4.) In support, Plaintiffs provide a copy of an email
exchange from Broker Defendant Roger Merians (“Merians”) asking Seller
Defendant Duc Pham (“Duc”) the following: “Perhaps it would be
interesting to ask FE Design if you sell the business do these covenants etc
transfer to the new owner and just so we maybe understand a bit more as well
about parking etc -  I think it may also
be a function of a new renovation if that happens - but worth asking ?” (Plaintiffs’ Evidence, Exh. 1.) Duc then forwarded
this email to Navarrette who responded with “covenants run with the property.
The CUP is expired so it doesn't mean kaka, Best to not wake any sleeping
giants with building permits anytime soon.” (Ibid. [emphasis
added].) As such, Plaintiffs argue that this response indicates that at least
Navarrette and Duc knew of issues with using the
underground level as dining area making it reasonable to infer that Broker
Defendants also knew of the issue. (Opp., at p. 4.) Additionally, Plaintiffs
dispute that Broker Defendants believed that the ADA requirements were waived
for the entirety of the Blossom premises presenting an email exchange between
Duc and Merians where Merians indicated that it is “possible the street level
will need an ADA compliant restroom.” (Id., at pp. 4-5; Plaintiffs’
Evidence, Exh. 2.) 
In reply, Broker
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to propound any evidence showing that Broker
Defendants knew that Plaintiffs could not use the underground level of Blossom
as a dining area. (Reply, at p. 3.) Moreover, Broker Defendants continue to
argue that they had reasonable grounds to believe that both levels of Blossom
could be used for customer dining, and they did not act recklessly in any way
based on the information they had. (Ibid.) Broker Defendants also
provide an email showing that Duc informed Merians that the city had wave the
ADA requirements for the premises due to the age and limitations of the
building. (Merians Decl., ¶ 12, Exh. 8.)
The court finds that no triable
of issue of fact exists as to Plaintiffs’ negligent misrepresentation claim. Plaintiffs
allege that Broker Defendants falsely represented that the underground level of
the Blossom premises could be used for customer dining, thus inducing
Plaintiffs to purchase the restaurant and lease the premises. Broker Defendants’
evidence show that they had no information to believe that the underground
level could not be used for customer dining. It is undisputed that Seller
Defendants had used the underground level as a customer area for many years
while operating Blossom. (UMF, No. 15.) It is also undisputed that the CUP for
the premises represented the underground level as a customer area. (Merians
Decl., ¶¶ 7-10, Exh. 7.) At a minimum, this evidence is sufficient to meet
Broker Defendants’ moving burden. This is further supported by the declarations
and discovery responses provided in Broker Defendants’ evidence. (Chen Decl., ¶
8; Mourad Decl., ¶ 7; Merians Decl., ¶ 11; Navarette RFA Responses, Nos.
11-12.) 
In turn, Plaintiffs fail
to overcome their burden of raising a triable issue of material fact. None of
the evidence provided by Plaintiffs allow for even an inference that Broker
Defendants had any indication that the underground level could not be used as a
customer space. Plaintiffs also fail to provide any evidence that contradicts
the declarations provided by Broker Defendants or the undisputed facts
regarding the CUP and previous use of the underground level.  
As such, Broker
Defendants’ motion is granted as to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation. 
B.             
Intentional Misrepresentation 
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing,
Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)
 
As
discussed above, Broker Defendants’ evidence shows that they had no knowledge
that the underground level of Blossom could not be used for customer dining as all
the information available to them showed otherwise. As such, Broker Defendants met
their moving burden.
 
Plaintiffs
also fail to show that a triable of issue of fact exists as to Plaintiffs’ intentional
misrepresentation claim. Plaintiffs’ evidence fails to show that Broker
Defendants had any knowledge that the underground level could not be used for
customer dining to make their assertions false. 
As such, Broker
Defendants’ motion is granted as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation.
C.             
 Breach of
a Fiduciary Duty 
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship,
breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) 
 
Broker Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs need to show that Broker Defendants failed to disclose material
information regarding the Blossom premises that was known to them. (MSJ, at p.
15.) As such, Broker Defendants argue that their lack of knowledge regarding
the issues with the underground level prevents Plaintiffs from showing a breach
of a fiduciary duty. (Ibid.) Broker Defendants propound the same
evidence as above to show they did not know of any issue with the underground
level nor that they knew and failed to disclose such information to
Plaintiffs.(Ibid.)
 
The court finds that Broker
Defendants meet their moving burden with the evidence provided. Plaintiffs once
again fail to show that a triable issue of fact exists here regarding Broker
Defendants knowledge of the issues pertaining to the underground level or that
Broker Defendants fail to disclose any material information to Plaintiffs. 
 
As such, Broker Defendants’ motion
is granted as to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for breach of a fiduciary
duty.
 
Continuance 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs request a continuance on the hearing of Broker Defendants’
motion arguing that Plaintiffs are awaiting responses from Seller Defendants,
Duc and Vincent Pham, that may provide additional evidence to support their
opposition. 
 
            In reply,
Broker Defendants seem to be amicable to a continuance if the court is inclined
to deny their motion. The court will discuss further with the parties at the
hearing.[2]
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Atlas Real Estate Group,
Ali Mourad, and Roger Merians’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 


