 This is an employment action in which Plaintiff Kathleen Sullivan asserts seven causes of action pursuant to the FEHA.Defendants Los Angeles Community College District, Suleman Ishaque, Earic Dixon-Peters, and Genice Sarcedo-Magruder now seek to compel a mental exam of Plaintiff due to her allegations of emotional distress.This Court has the authority to compel a mental examination of a party.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310(a) provides that any party seeking to obtain discovery by a mental examination “shall obtain leave of court.”  A motion for a mental examination “shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination.  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id. § 2032.310(b).)  Any grant of a motion for a mental examination must be based on “good cause.” (Id. § 2032.320(a).)  Good cause requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)Defendants state, “The parties cannot agree . . . on the parameters of the examination. Plaintiff will not agree to permit the examination to proceed unless the examiner is precluded from asking questions about, or discussing, various topics including Plaintiff’s sex life, even though she contends her sex life has been harmed by Defendants’ conduct and she received psychological counseling for marital problems. Under California law, the restrictions Plaintiff would impose on the mental examination are inappropriate. . . . The parties also could not agree on the length of the examination. Although the examination should be completed in 3-5 hours, there is no way to predict how long it will take due to the fact Plaintiff suffers from a medical condition that requires her to take frequent breaks and is talkative. [ ] Accordingly, Defendants proposed stipulating that the examiner be afforded a ‘reasonable’ time to complete the examination. Plaintiff would not accept such a limitation. Instead, she insisted on a finite time limit.” That is, there are two issues: (1) the time limit for the exam and (2) whether Plaintiff’s sex life can be discussed. The Court has considered this matter and will, in the exercise of its discretion, limit Plaintiff’s mental exam to 7 hours, not including breaks.  Hopefully, the exam can be completed more quickly.   Next, “[t]he mere fact that a plaintiff has initiated an action seeking damages for extreme mental and emotional distress arising out of conduct of a sexual nature does not ipso facto provide ‘good cause’ for discovery of other sexual conduct. (Vinson v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d at pp. 841–842, 239 Cal.Rptr. 292, 740 P.2d 404.) The issue is resolved by balancing the right of privacy with the defendant's right to discovery.”  (Barrenda L. v. Superior Ct. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 794, 801.) Plaintiff contends that “Because marital issues do not translate to sex issues, issues related to sex and the like should not be asked during the examination.”Ordinarily, the Court would not allow questions pertaining to sex life for a typical harassment matter.  In this case, however, Plaintiff stated in response to an interrogatory that she was experiencing a “lack of sex drive” as a result of Defendants’ misconduct.  Based thereon, it seems inequitable not to allow inquiry into Plaintiff’s sex life with her husband for the limited purpose of exploring this statement. In sum, the Motion is granted in part—(a) the time limit for the exam is 7 hours and (b) inquiry into Plaintiff’s sex life will be permitted.Moving party to give notice.