On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Conagra Brands, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc., and Does 1-50 for (1) Strict Product Liability—Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict Product Liability—Design Defect, (3) Strict Product Liability—Failure to Warn, (4) Negligence, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties.  Plaintiff alleges that he used butter spray manufactured, distributed, or sold by Defendants and that this butter spray contains diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and/or other hazardous food flavoring components dangerous to the lungs.On November 15, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application seeking for the Court to specially set a trial preservation deposition for Plaintiff.  The basis of the application was that “Esparza’s treating pulmonologist has stated that he is in ‘grave condition’ and will die without a double-lung transplant.”  Plaintiff sought for the deposition to take place no later than December 20, 2024.Defendant Symrise, Inc. now seeks to quash Plaintiff’s deposition notice for trial preservation testimony.  Symrise also seeks a protective order “1) [requiring] Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer with Symrise and all other defendants to determine a mutually agreeable deposition date for Plaintiff’s deposition; 2) permitting the defendants to take the discovery deposition of Mr. Esparza in-person; and 3) permitting Plaintiff’s counsel to takes his client’s trial preservation testimony after completion of the discovery deposition on proper notice and after conferring in good faith with Defendants on mutually agreeable dates and making clear that defense counsel will appear in-person during the taking of that testimony if they so desire.”The primary objective of the Motion seems to be to allow defense counsel to take Plaintiff’s discovery testimony before the preservation testimony.  Defendant, however, fails to justify its sequencing request, and the Court sees little basis for it.  Plaintiff has sought the preservation testimony for months, and this issue has already been sufficiently delayed considering Plaintiff’s condition.In accordance with the ex parte ruling, Plaintiff’s preservation deposition it to move forward.  Defense counsel may question Plaintiff after he has provided his preservation testimony.  The Motion to Quash is denied.Moving party to give notice.