 Case Number:  24STCV00104    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



APS&EE,
  LLC
                           
         vs.
 
FRENCH
  BULL, LLC 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV00104  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  August 8, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to approve the entry of the Consent Judgment is GRANTED.           
 
            On
1/3/2024, Plaintiff APS&EE, LLC (Plaintiff) filed suit against French Bull,
LLC and Kim’s Home Center, Inc, alleging a violation of Proposition 65.
 
Plaintiff now
submits the parties’ Consent Judgment to this Court for approval.  
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Proposition 65, any business that exposes individuals to
chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or reproductive harm
must provide those individuals with a clear and reasonable warning. (Health
& Saf. Code § 25249.6.) 
 
Private individuals may sue to enforce Proposition 65 if they give the
requisite 60-day notice of intent to sue to the public prosecutors and to the
potential defendants. (Health & Saf. Code § 25249.7(d); see also Center for Self-Improvement & Community
Development v. Lennar Corp. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1543, 1556 (explaining
that Proposition 65 “grants authority to ‘any person’ to sue in the public
interest” so long as the statute’ “procedural prerequisites” are satisfied).)
Health & Safety Code section 25249.7(f)(4) provides:
 
If there is a settlement of an action brought by a
person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall submit
the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is
received from the defendant, to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and
the court may approve the settlement only if the court makes all of the
following findings:
 
(A) Any warning that is required by the settlement complies with this
chapter.
(B) Any award of attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law.
(C) Any penalty amount is reasonable based on the
criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
 
Discussion 
 
            After
review of the consent judgment, the Court concludes that the injunctive relief
provided for, the penalties levied, and the attorney fees provided for are fair
and reasonable. The Court approves Plaintiff’s motion. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 