 Case Number:  23VECV01484    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ELLEN SARKISYAN, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC, a Delaware Limited
  Liability Company, and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01484
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSE TO ITS REQUEST
  FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, FORM INTERROGATORIES, AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
  
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR
AN
  ORDER DEEMING THE TRUTH OF MATTERS ADMITTED IN
ITS
  REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS



 
 
 
 
 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a
Song-Beverly Act case. Plaintiff Ellen Sarkisyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”) violated the Song Beverly Act’s Breach
of Express and Implied Warranty.
Defendant now seeks to
compel Plaintiff’s response to its request for production of documents
(“RFPs”), its form interrogatories (“FROGS”), and its special interrogatories
(“SROGS”). Defendant also moves to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and requests an
order deeming the truth of the matters admitted in its requests for admissions
(“RFAs”).
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On April 4,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Express Warranty
Obligations; and (2) Breach of Implied Warranty Obligations.
On July 27,
2023, Defendant filed its Answer. 
On October
24, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Plaintiff, Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted (“Motion RFAs”), Motion to Compel
Responses to SROGS (“Motion SROGS”), Motion to Compel Responses to FROGS
(“Motion FROGS”), and Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs (“Motion RFPs”).
Plaintiff did
not oppose. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.            
Request for Production
 A party upon whom a demand for the production
of documents has been made has 30 days after service of the demand to respond.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.260(a).)[1] The
propounding and responding parties may agree to extend the time for response. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.270(a).) When a party fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a motion to compel
response. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).) A responding party that
does not provide responses waives the right to object to the demand, including
objections based on privilege or work product. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).)
B.            
Interrogatories 
If a party to whom interrogatories are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to
compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)    
C.            
Depositions
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a)
provides that, “[i]f, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action… without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it…, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.410(a),
provides that, “[a]ny party served with a deposition notice that does not
comply with [the notice requirements in Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.210
through 2025.290] waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the
party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom
the deposition notice was served.”
Finally, Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.290,
which provides for a limit of seven hours of total testimony of a witness, does
not apply to the deposition of a person designated as the person most qualified
to be deposed. (See Code. Civ. Proc. § 2025.290(b)(5).) 
D.           
Requests for Admission
“Any party may obtain discovery . . .
by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2033.010.) “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the
party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the
response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all
other parties who have appeared…” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.250(a).)
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(a).) The
requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents
and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as
well as for monetary sanctions. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) The
court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made
serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)    
IV.         
ANALYSIS
Five motions
are presently before the Court. The ruling will address Defendant’s Motion
RFPs, then its Motion FROGS and SROGS, then its Motion to Compel the Deposition
of Plaintiff, and, finally, its Motion RFAs. 
A.            
The Court Grants Defendant’s Motion RFPs.
Defendant’s
counsel declares Plaintiff was served with written discovery on May 16, 2024. (See
Declaration of Sabrina Narain filed October 24, 2024 (“Narain Decl.”), ¶ 5,
Ex. A.) Defendant’s counsel further declares Plaintiff has not served a
response or requested an extension. (See id. at ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff did
not oppose. 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion RFPs and finds Defendant is entitled to an
order compelling Plaintiff’s response to its RFPs. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide code-compliant responses without objection on or before January 31, 2025.
B.            
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion
FROGS and Motion SROGs.
Defendant’s
counsel declares Plaintiff was served with written discovery on May 16, 2024. (See
Narain Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Defendant’s counsel further declares Plaintiff
has not served a response or requested an extension. (See id. at ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff did
not oppose. 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion FROGS and Motion SROGS and finds Defendant
is entitled to an order compelling Plaintiff’s response to its FROGS and SROGS.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide code-compliant responses without objection on
or before January 31, 2025.
C.            
The Court Grants Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition.
Defendant’s
counsel declares Defendant served Plaintiff a Notice of Deposition on May 16,
2024, for a deposition date of July 10, 2024. (See Narain Decl., ¶ 6,
Ex. B.) Defendant’s counsel declares Plaintiff was sent a Zoom link for the
remote deposition on July 9, 2024, but that Plaintiff did not show for the
deposition on July 10, 2024. (See id. at ¶¶ 8-9, Exs. C-D.) Defendant
further declares Plaintiff did not reply to Defendant’s follow-up email until July
11, 2024, and did not provide alternate dates for Plaintiff’s deposition. (See
id. at ¶ 11, Exs. F, G.) 
A motion set forth under Code
of Civil Procedure § 2025.450 must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration or, when the deponent does not attend the deposition, a
“declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).) Defendant has done
so here. (See Narain Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8-9, Exs. B-D.) 
Plaintiff did not oppose. 
Defendant is entitled to an order
compelling Plaintiff’s deposition. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Plaintiff. Plaintiff shall appear for deposition on or before February 14, 2025.
D.           
The Court Grants Defendant’s Motion RFAs.
Defendant’s
counsel declares Plaintiff was served with written discovery on May 16, 2024. (See
Narain Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Defendant’s counsel further declares Plaintiff
has not served a response or requested an extension. (See id. at ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff did
not oppose. 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion RFAs and finds Defendant is entitled to an
order deeming the
truth of the matters admitted in its RFAs.  
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs,
Motion to Compel Responses to FROGS, Motion to Compel Responses to SROGS,
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff, and Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted.
Plaintiff is
ordered to serve Defendant with code-compliant responses to Defendant’s RFPs,
FROGS, and SROGS without objection on or before January 31, 2025.
Plaintiff
shall appear for deposition on or before February 14, 2025.
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:      January 15, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


