 Case Number:  23STCV20231    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Carlos Sotelo and VIP Enterprises, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Sebastian Solano
                                    
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
        The legal argument in
Plaintiff’s opposition is all of one page long. 
In the one important paragraph, Plaintiff gives a string cite of four cases:  Mosier v. Southern
California Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022; Loube v.
Loube (1988) 64 Cal.App.4th 421; Ferguson v. Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann
& Bernstein (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1037; Lynch v. Warwick (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 267.  (See Opposition, p.
7:1-3.)  Plaintiff did not provide the
applicable page citation for any of these four cases. 
 
        Defendant is correct that
none of these cases is on-point.
 
        However, as indicated
below, Defendant’s argument lacks merit and Plaintiff is correct as a matter of
law.
 
        The Court expects both counsel
to be more professional and precise in their future briefings.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff Sebastian Solano filed his
Complaint against Defendants Carlos Sotelo and VIP Enterprises, Inc.
(originally sued as Keller Williams, Inc.) on causes of action arising from
Plaintiff’s retainer of Defendants to represent Plaintiff in the purchase of
real property. 
 
September 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint (FAC). 
 
On November 2, 2023, Defendants filed their Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. In support of their
Motion, Defendants concurrently filed Declaration of Andrew Leff.
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to
the Motion. In support of his Motion, Plaintiff concurrently filed Declaration
of Charles M. Clark. 
 
On December 5, 2023, Defendants filed their Reply
regarding the Motion. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1)). The notice of motion to
strike a portion of a pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be
stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of
action, count or defense. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear
on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) The
court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
 
When the defect which justifies striking a
complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman
v. Mun. Ct. (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Defendants move the Court to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for attorney
fees, without leave to amend the FAC. (Motion, p. 4:17–18.) Defendants argue
that there is no basis in law or contract for such recovery. (Id. at p.
4:12–15.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion, arguing that the attorney’s fees
requested are damages incurred in prior litigation due to professional
negligence and are thus allowable as damages. (Opposition, p. 7:6–14.)
Plaintiff has clearly stated that he is “not attempting to collect fees [he]
will incur in this litigation against Defendants and [he] is not basing [his]
request for fees on any agreement, including the purchase and sale agreement
with the Seller.” (Id. at p. 6:24–26.)
 
In their Reply, Defendants reiterate their argument and refute the
cases Plaintiff cites in support of his argument. 
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s argument. 
 
“General rule: In the absence of some special agreement,
statutory provision, or exceptional circumstances, attorney's fees are to be
paid by the party employing the attorney. 
 
“Exception: A person who through the tort of another has
been required to act in the protection of his interests by bringing or
defending an action against a third person is entitled to recover compensation
for the reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney's fees, and other
expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.” 
 
(Prentice v. N. Am. Title Guar. Corp. (1963)
59 Cal.2d 618, 620, citations omitted.)
 
“It is settled that a person who is required through the tort of
another to act in protection of his interest by bringing or defending an action
against a third person is entitled to recover compensation for the reasonably
necessary attorney’s fees incurred.” (Moe v. Transamerica Title Ins. Co. (1971)
21 Cal.App.3d 289, 303, citing Prentice, supra, at p. 620; see
also Saunders v. Cariss (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 905, 910, reversing a
trial court’s sustaining of a demurrer where a plaintiff sought attorney’s fees
claimed as damages incurred in attempting to mitigate damages caused by a
defendant’s alleged malpractice).
 
“[T]he so-called ‘third party tort exception’ to the rule that parties
bear their own attorney fees is not really an ‘exception’ at all but an
application of the usual measure of tort damages. The theory of recovery is
that the attorney fees are recoverable as damages resulting from a tort in the
same way that medical fees would be part of the damages in a personal injury
action. In such cases there is no recovery of attorney fees qua attorney fees.”
(Sooy v. Peter (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1305, 1310, citation omitted.)
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges in his FAC that Defendants are
liable for professional negligence and that part of the damages Plaintiff
suffered was unnecessarily paying the attorney’s fees of a third party in an
earlier arbitration. (FAC, ¶¶ 33–45, 49.) Such fees clearly fall under the
“third party tort exception” and are allowed to be pleaded without the
existence of a contractual or statutory right to attorney’s fees as costs. 
 
III.    
Conclusion 
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
 