 Case Number:  23VECV04939    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  W PARHAM ZIYARI,
et al. vs ESSEX WARNER CENTER, LP, et al.
 
defendants’ motion to dismiss
second amended complaint and demurrer with motion to strike the second amended
complaint  
 
Date of Hearing:        November
8, 2024                            Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04939
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Essex Warner Center, LP and Essex Management Corporation
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Parham Ziyari and Saba Ziyari
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a landlord tenant
dispute.  On February 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Essex Warner Center, LP and
Essex Management Corporation for 1. Contractual and Tortious Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability; 2. Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 3.
Nuisance; 4. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 5. Negligence; 6.
Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and Retention; 7. Violation of Civ.
Code § 1940.2; 8. Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.5 (Retaliatory
Eviction); 9. Violation of L.A.M.C. §§ 45.33 and 151.33; 10. Violation of Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.30; 11. Fraud and Fraudulent Concealment; 12.
Violation of the Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los
Angeles; 13. Premises Liability; and 14. Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200 et seq. Unfair, Unlawful, and Deceptive Business Practices. 
 
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint after the court sustained the demurrer to the tenth,
eleventh and thirteenth causes of action. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’
Motion to Dismiss Second Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, in part; OVERRULED, in
part. Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DISMISS SECOND
AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Defendants Essex Warner Center, LP and
Essex Management Corporation moves the court for an order to dismiss Plaintiffs
Parham and Saba Ziyari’s Second Amended Complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs
filed the subject second amended complaint without the requisite leave to amend
as it was filed outside of the permitted window to file it.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f)(2)
provides in relevant part that after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained
with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by
the court and either party moves for dismissal. 
Subdivision (m) provides that the provisions of this section shall not
be deemed to be an exclusive enumeration of the court's power to dismiss an
action or dismiss a complaint as to a defendant.  (CCP § 581(f)(2) & (m).
 
Defendants argue the complaint is
subject to dismissal because at that hearing at the demurrer to the first
amended complaint, Plaintiff was granted 30 days to file a second amended
complaint making the deadline to file the second amended complaint May 17, 2024.
The parties agreed to a 10-day extension to file the second amended complaint
as the parties were negotiating a settlement and thus, Plaintiff was required
to file the second amended complaint on May 28, 2024 (May 27, 2024 was a court
holiday). However, Plaintiffs did not file the second amended complaint until
June 28, 2024. Therefore, the second amended complaint is improper and subject
to dismissal. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
motion should be denied because the untimely filing of the second amended
complaint was done with good cause, was done with Defendants’ implicit consent,
was brief, and inconsequential. Moreover, granting Defendants’ motion would
deny Plaintiffs a jury trial. Plaintiffs also argue that the motion to dismiss
is the improper vehicle when seeking to strike an untimely complaint and if
this court were to grant the motion, it should only be to the tenth, eleventh,
and thirteenth causes of action. 
 
The court denies the motion to dismiss.
As noted by Plaintiffs, “[t]he decision to dismiss an action under section 581,
subdivision (f)(2) rests in the sound discretion of the trial court[.]” (Gitmed
v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 824, 827.) The court is
satisfied with the reason given by Plaintiffs’ counsel for the untimely filing.
Regardless of whether there was an extension past May 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
states the parties continued to engage in settlement negotiations and refrained
from filing the SAC in further of the parties’ desire to quickly resolve this case
during the post-mediation settlement negotiations. (Harouni Decl. ¶12.) Although
filed a month later, the court finds Defendants have not been prejudiced by the
untimely filing. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss Second Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Defendants Essex Warner Center LP and
Essex Management Corporation demur to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint on
the grounds the tenth, eleventh and thirteenth causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute a claim against Defendants and are too
uncertain, vague and ambiguous to constitute a claim against Defendants. Defendants
also move to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations for punitive damages. 
 
Tenth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the tenth cause of
action for violation of Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.30 on the grounds Mr.
Ziyari is not a “dependent adult” within the meaning of the statute. 
 
The court found the previous
allegations insufficient, noting “it would appear that plaintiff’s conduct is
inconstant with the conduct of a “dependent” adult, for example running his own
successful business.” (Minute Order April 17, 2024.) Defendants argue Plaintiffs
do not add anything to the amended complaint to qualify Mr. Ziyari as a
“dependent” adult.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
definition of “dependent adult” must be liberally construed. (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 860–861; see California
Assn. of Health Facilities v. Dept. of Health Services (1997) 16 Cal.4th
284, 295 (a remedial statute is to be ‘liberally construed on behalf of the
class of persons it is designed to protect’).” Plaintiff contends their
allegations are sufficient to show “dependent adult” pursuant to WIC §
15610.23(a) as the allegations include that although he is able to run his
business, his wife is co-owner of the business and Mr. Ziyari virtually relies
on her for everything including depending on Mrs. Ziyari mentally, emotionally,
and physically, to help him carry out his tasks at work, especially when he is
anxious, stressed, or under pressure, which is often, as such conditions
trigger his disabilities and make things even more difficult than they usually are.
 
This is sufficient for the purposes of
a demurrer. As noted by both parties, Section 15610.23 includes in its
definition of a “dependent adult” “a person, regardless of whether the person
lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years who resides in this
state and who has physical or mental limitations that restrict his or her
ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights,
including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or developmental
disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have diminished because of
age.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.23(a).) Plaintiffs’ allegations meet
this definition for the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Defendants also demur to the cause of
action because they claim the allegations do not meet the requirement that the
defendant knew or should have known that the conduct is likely to be harmful to
the disabled person. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues their
allegations that “Defendants and their managing agents knew, or should have
known, that renting an uninhabitable unit to Plaintiff and retaliating against
him would cause Plaintiff to suffer significant emotional and mental distress,
out of pocket costs to repair the property, constructive eviction (i.e., Mr.
Ziyari recently vacated the property), and a decrease in the value of their
rental unit, among other damages[]” is sufficient. This is sufficient for the
purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants demurrer to the
tenth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Eleventh Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause
of action for fraud and fraudulent concealment on the grounds Plaintiffs fails
to allege what conditions existed prior to the lease which were not disclosed
and which were either concealed or not obvious during the first walk through.
 
The court previously found: “Plaintiffs
have not sufficiently alleged Defendants intentionally concealed material facts
not known to Plaintiffs and what was concealed. Indeed, the alleged facts that
were concealed appear to have occurred after the apartment was first rented,
e.g. the leaks, the alleged mold, and plumbing issues. Plaintiff must
specifically allege what conditions existed prior to its entering the lease
which were not disclosed and which were either concealed or not obvious during
the first walk through.” (Minute Order April 17, 2024.) 
 
The court finds the allegations still
insufficient to support a claim of fraud. As noted by Defendants, Plaintiffs’
allegations are too general and do not meet the requisite specificity. Plaintiffs
do not sufficiently allege how, what, where, and when representations were made
regarding the habitability of the unit; for example, was the unit listed with
no substandard issues. The complaint must allege how Defendants’ lack of
performance in correcting these issues amounted to fraud. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiffs are
given one more opportunity to adequately plead a fraud claim against
Defendants. 
 
Thirteenth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the thirteenth
cause of action for premises liability on the grounds the claim is barred by
the statute of limitations. 
 
To establish premises liability,
plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the
plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess,
or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing
the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.”
(Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)
The statute of limitations for premises liability is two years. (CCP §335.1.)
 
Defendants argue it is undisputed that
the statute of limitations for negligence and premises liability actions is two
years and that the subject incident occurred on 7/4/21. However, the first
amended complaint alleging the 7/4/21 incident for the very first time, was
filed on 2/21/24 – more than 2 years after the incident. Defendants contend
Plaintiffs’ claim that the statute of limitations is tolled fails because
Plaintiffs have not and cannot allege prior similar criminal incidents. 
 
The court agrees. Plaintiffs’
allegations are based on the assault, which occurred more than two years ago.
Plaintiffs’ allegations that the failure to ensure that proper security
personnel patrol, etc. has caused damages to other tenants both prior to and
after the assault on Mr. Ziyari is not a prior similar criminal incident. “Heightened
foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal
incidents (or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent
criminal assaults in that location) and does not require a showing of prior nearly
identical criminal incidents.” (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 245.) While it does not need to be a nearly identical
assault, there are no allegations that there were similar criminal
incidents; only that other tenants have been damaged by the failure of
Defendants to make the property secure. The court finds Plaintiffs’ other
arguments unavailing. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the thirteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’
allegations regarding punitive damages on the grounds Plaintiff’s claims for
punitive damages based on the fraud claim woefully fail for the same reasons
set forth in the demurrer. Moreover, Plaintiff has failed to provide any
allegations of any advance knowledge, authorization or ratification by any
officer, director or managing agent outside of straight conclusory allegations.

 
The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a motion to strike. Plaintiffs seeks punitive
damages not just for their fraud claim, but as well as other claims that are
sufficiently pled. Moreover, those allegations are sufficient to show
ratification. 
 
As such, the court DENIES the motion to
strike punitive damages. 