  Case Number:  23STCV18802    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



REBECCA S. ROWE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
WORKMAN DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION POOLS AND LANDSCAPES, INC., a
  California corporation; ANTHONY WORKMAN, an individual, NAVIGATORS INSURANCE
  COMPANY, a New York corporation; and DOES 1 through 75, inclusive
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
WORKMAN DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION POOLS AND LANDSCAPES, INC., a
  California corporation; ANTHONY WORKMAN, an individual,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
REBECCA S. ROWE, an individual; ROES 1-25, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV18802
 Hearing Date:   September
  18, 2024
 Trial Date:        November
  26, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Cross-Complainant’s
  Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Rebecca Rowe (Rowe) sued
Defendants Workman Design and Construction Pools and Landscapes, Inc., Anthony
Workman, Navigators Insurance Company, and Does 1 through 75 pursuant to an
August 8, 2023 Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written
Contract; (2) Money Had and Received; (3) Intentional Misrepresentation; (4)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Claim on Contractors License Bond; (6)
Violations of Business & Professions Code § 7160; (7) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (8) Unfair Business Practices; (9)
Equitable Indemnity; (10) Statutory Indemnity; (11) Elder Abuse. 
On September 19, 2023, Workman
Design and Construction Pools and Landscapes, Inc., and Anthony Workman
(collectively Workman) filed a Cross-Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)
Foreclosure of Mechanics Lien; (2) Breach of Written Contract; (3) Breach of
Oral Contract; (4) Breach of Implied-in-Fact Contract; (5) Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (6) Common Count: Open Book; (7)
Common Count: Services Rendered; (8) Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations; and (9) Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations.
The claims arise from construction
of an additional dwelling unit that Rowe contracted Workman to build on her
property. 
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 23, 2024, Workman filed
the instant motion for leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
On September 5, 2024, Rowe opposed
the motion. 
On September 11, 2024, Workman
replied. 
 
II. Motion
A. Evidentiary Objections
Rowe’s objections to the
Declaration of Sara D. Fazio are OVERRULED. 
B. Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge Sports).)
California courts will not ordinarily consider the validity of a proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave to amend given that any
grounds for a demurrer or a motion to strike will be premature at that time.
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173
Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 (California Casualty), citations omitted, overruled
on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.
(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406; see also Kittredge Sports, supra,
213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048 [Where “the proposed legal theory [at issue] is a
novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow
the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on
the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings’”], quoting California
Casualty, supra, at p. 280.)
Under California Rules of Court
Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: (1) Include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) State
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
C. Analysis
Here, Workman meets the procedural
requirements for leave to amend. 
Workman has filed a proposed First-Amended
Cross-Complaint with ‘redline’ changes showing the changes from the Complaint,
thus satisfying California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324 subdivision (a)(1)-(3).
(Fazio Decl., Ex. A.) 
Workman has also filed a declaration
from counsel satisfying California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivisions
(b)(1)-(4). (Fazio Decl., ¶¶ 4 [effect, necessary and proper], 5 [when facts
discovered, why not brought earlier].) 
In opposition, Rowe argues that the
motion is untimely, and introducing a new cause of action at this stage of the
litigation would be prejudicial. (Opp. p. 4.) She argues that Workman filed the
Cross-Complaint over a year ago and now seeks to add a new cause of action with
trial set for November 26, just over two months away. (Opp. p. 4.)
 Here Workman’s explanation for why the fraud
cause of action was not brought earlier is admittedly vague, as Workman’s
counsel only explains that “[w]hile reviewing the discovery” the “firm
recognized an additional cause of action to be plead” the delay was due to
“inadvertent neglect.” (Fazio Decl. ¶ 3.) However, Rowe has failed to
demonstrate any actual prejudice resulting from allowing Workman to file the
proposed First-Amended Cross-Complaint. Rowe argues that she will be prejudiced
by the amendment because it introduces a new legal theory shortly before trial,
potentially requiring additional discovery and preparation. However, Workman
shows that the new fraud cause of action is based on the same factual
allegations as those already pleaded. Moreover, Rowe has not provided any
specific examples of how she would be prejudiced by the proposed amendment,
particularly where the discovery cut off is still more than 30 days away. 
Thus, Workman’s motion for leave to
amend is GRANTED. 
III. Conclusion
Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 