 Case Number:  24STCV12055    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CHRISTINA YOUSEFI,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
PACIFIC PREMIER BANK, SAIDE ELHENDI, MARK WELCH, SCOTT PETERSON,
  and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV12055
 Hearing Date:   September
  18, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and for Stay of the Action
  Pending Arbitration 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Christina Yousefi
(Yousefi) sues Defendants Pacific Premier Bank, Saaid El-Hendi (erroneously
sued as Saide Elhendi), Mark Walsh (erroneously sued as Mark Welch), and Gary
Scott Peterson (erroneously sued as Scott Peterson), and Does 1-100 pursuant to
a May 14, 2024 Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Harassment on the Basis
of Sex/Pregnancy (Hostile Work Environment) in Violation of the FEHA; (2)
Discrimination on the Basis of Sex/Pregnancy in Violation of the FEHA; (3) Retaliation
on the Basis of Sex/Pregnancy in Violation of the FEHA; (4) Failure to Engage in
the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; (5) Failure to Accommodate in
Violation of the FEHA; and (6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy. 
Yousefi worked for Pacific Premier
Bank from December 2019 until April 18, 2023 (Compl. ¶¶ 11, 15.) Yousefi
alleges that she performed her job duties in an exemplary manner throughout the
course of her employment. (Compl. ¶ 12.) During her employment with Defendants,
Yousefi became pregnant and informed Defendants of her pregnancy as well as
complications with her pregnancy. (Compl. ¶ 13.) Yousefi alleges that between
December 2022 and April 2023, she requested accommodations to work from home as
she feared getting sick at work and was suffering from pregnancy related
ailments, but that Defendant El-Hendi denied these requests. (Compl. ¶ 14(b).)  On April 3, 2023, Yousefi became sick with
bronchitis and Defendant’s Human Resources department granted her request for a
week off, with a return date set for April 11. (Compl. ¶ 14(d).) On April 7,
2023, Yousefi contacted El-Hendi to express her concerns about attending a
conference scheduled for late April 2023. (Compl. ¶ 14(e).) She explained that
she was not feeling well, and because the event would have many attendees, and
she was experiencing a high-risk pregnancy, she was fearful of getting sick
again. (Compl. ¶ 14(e).) Yousefi states that she never heard back regarding her
request. (Compl. ¶ 14(e).) On April 18, 2023, Defendants El-Hendi, Welch, and
Peterson informed Yousefi that she was laid off due to an elimination of her
position following a reduction in workforce. (Compl. ¶ 15(a).) Yousefi alleges
that she was the only employee impacted in the Los Angeles region and that recently
a male employee has assumed her previous role. (Compl. ¶ 15(b).)
 
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 12, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and for stay of the action
pending arbitration. 
On September 5, 2024, Yousefi
opposed the motion.
On September 11, 2024, Defendants
replied. 
The Defendants’ motion is now
before the Court. 
 
II. Motion
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (a), (c) and
(d), the Court may take judicial notice of “(a) …the resolutions and private acts
of the Congress of the United States…”, (c) [o]fficial acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of
the United States” and “(d) [r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any
court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States”. The
court however may not take judicial notice of the truth of the contents of the
documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only judicially noticeable to show their
existence and what orders were made such that the truth of the facts and
findings within the documents are not judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law
Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
875, 885.)  
Defendants request judicial
notice of the following: (1) United States House of Representatives Judiciary
Committee Report Regarding the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021: Section-by-Section Analysis, dated January 28,
2022; (2) United States House of Representatives Judiciary Committee Report
Regarding the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
Act of 2021; (3) Order regarding Starbucks Corporation’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration in the matter entitled Princess Hodges v. Starbucks Corporation
et al., Los Angeles County Superior Court, Case No. 23STCV02667, issued on
June 16, 2023; and (4) Order regarding Pacific Premier Bank’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration in the matter entitled Max Nguyen v. Pacific Premier Bank et al.,
Orange County Superior Court, Case No. 30-2022- 01272874-CU-WT-CJC, issued on
February 9, 2023.
The Court takes judicial notice to the extent of the documents’
existence, but not as to the truth of any matters asserted therein. 
Yousefi requests judicial notice
of the following: (1) Order Granting Defendants Robinhood Markets, Inc. and
Hemal Doshi’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings, Erkan v.
Robinhood Markets, Inc., et al., Case No. CGC-22-600149, dated October 17,
2022; (2) Government Code § 12940(j)(4)(C); (3) Order Denying Defendants Meta
Platforms, Inc., Ethan Hillel Lubka and Ian Robert Laiks’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings, Kennedy v. Meta Platforms, Inc., et al.,
Case No. CGC-23-604370, dated April 28, 2023; (4) Tentative Ruling and Order
Denying Defendants House Ninja, Brett Marz and Ramit Varma’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings, Burkholder v. House Ninja, et al.,
Case No. 23STCV02678, dated June 26, 2023; and (5) Order Denying Defendants
Motion to Compel Arbitration, Karla Lissette Martinez v. EBS Foods, LLC, et
al., Case No. 24STCV13488, dated August 23, 2024.
Again, the Court takes judicial notice to the extent of the
documents’ existence, but not as to the truth of any matters asserted therein.
 
 
B. Legal Standard
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This
is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the
court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to
other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the
paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated
verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)
The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)
C. Analysis
Defendants present a valid arbitration
agreement and evidence that Yousefi refuses to arbitrate. (Donaldson Decl.
Ex. I [Arbitration Agreement]; LaBriola Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7-8, 10, and
Exs. B, D, E, G [evidencing Yousefi’s refusal to arbitrate].)  Yousefi does not dispute the existence or
validity of the Arbitration Agreement. Yousefi argues that the Arbitration
Agreement exclusively applies to Pacific Premier Bank and not to the other individual
Defendants; however upon review, the Arbitration Agreement expressly states
that it encompasses disputes against Pacific Premier Bank employees (Donaldson
Decl. Ex A at p. 4, ¶ 3.)   
The primary contention between the
parties is whether the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act of 2021 (EFAA) applies. Defendants argue that the EFAA does not
apply to this case because the EFAA pertains to sexual assault or sexual
harassment claims, but not to pregnancy harassment claims. (Mot. p. 8.) The Defendants
request that if the Court finds that Yousefi’s pregnancy harassment claim falls
within the scope of the EFAA, it should sever this claim from the Arbitration
Agreement and compel Yousefi to arbitrate her remaining non-harassment claims. (Mot.
p. 8.) In opposition, Yousefi argues that all her claims arise from a sexual harassment
dispute as defined in the EFAA and that accordingly her claims cannot be
arbitrable and should not be severed. (Opp. pp. 9-10.)  
The EFAA gives individuals
asserting sexual assault or sexual harassment claims under federal, state or tribal
law the option to bring those claims in court even if they had agreed to
arbitrate such disputes before the claims arose. (H.R. 4445) Yousefi brings her
claims under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA). Under FEHA,
“‘harassment’ because of sex includes sexual harassment, gender harassment, and
harassment based on pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.”
(Gov. Gode. § 12940 subd. (j)(4)(C).) 
The FEHA defines sexual harassment
claims to include harassment based on pregnancy and its related medical
conditions. The EFAA applies to sexual harassment claims brought under state
law. Thus, the EFAA applies to Yousefi’s pregnancy harassment claims alleged in
this action. Accordingly, Yousefi may bring these claims in court despite signing
the Arbitration Agreement.    
Defendants further argue that
Yousefi’s remaining claims are not “related to” her pregnancy harassment
claims. (Reply p. 8.) The Defendants argue that Yousefi’s harassment claim
should be severed, and that she should be compelled to arbitrate her remaining
causes of action for discrimination, retaliation, failure to engage in the interactive
process, failure to accommodate, and wrongful termination. (Reply pp. 7-10.) Defendants
argue that Yousefi’s harassment claim involves “a single supervisor and
Plaintiff’s alleged interactions with that individual.” Defendants argue that
“[i]n contrast, the crux of Plaintiff’s remaining claims is that she was
wrongfully terminated, retaliated against, discriminated against, and harassed
because she disclosed her pregnancy and requested time off for her pregnancy.”
(Reply p. 8). Defendants argue that because these claims are not related to the
harassment claim, Yousefi should be compelled to arbitrate them.  
The EFAA provides that “no
predispute arbitration agreement…shall be valid or enforceable with respect to
a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the …
sexual harassment dispute.” (9. U.S.C. § 402 subd. (a).) 
To support their arguments, both
Yousefi and the Defendants rely on persuasive authority from New York, where
this specific question of interpretation has been much more substantially
litigated than it has in California. Yousefi relies on Johnson v.
Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535 for the contention that “[w]here
the claim in a case alleges ‘conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute’
as defined, the EFAA, at the election of the party making such an allegation,
makes pre-dispute arbitration agreements unenforceable with respect to the
entire case relating to that dispute.” (Johnson, supra, 657
F.Supp.3d 535 at p. 561.) 
Alternatively, the Defendants rely
on Mera v. SA Hosp. Grp., LLC (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 675 F.Supp.3d 442 in which
the Court compelled a plaintiff to arbitrate his wage and hours claims but
denied the motion to compel as to the plaintiff’s harassment claims within the
scope of the EFAA. In Mera, the Court found that the wage and hour
claims did “not relate in any way to the sexual harassment dispute…” (Mera,
supra, at p. 448.)  
Unlike Mera, in this case, all
of Yousefi’s causes of action arise from her treatment related to her
pregnancy. Yousefi alleges that her supervisor made comments insinuating that
she would not return to work after giving birth (Compl. p. 4.), that her
requests for reasonable accommodations due to pregnancy-related ailments were
denied or ignored (Compl. p. 5.), and that she was terminated under the pretext
of reductions in workforce, but that her position was subsequently filled by a
male employee. (Compl. p. 6.) 
Thus, because all Yousefi’s causes
of action in this case relate to her pregnancy harassment allegation, the
entire case falls under the EFAA. Accordingly, the Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is DENIED.
III. Conclusion
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and for Stay of the Action
Pending Arbitration is DENIED.