..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21GDCV00949
Plaintiff's Name: Pasadena Post No. 13, Department of California, The American Legion
Defendant's Name: The Legion Corporation of Pasadena, Michael Seaton, Lynne Garcia, John McGuire, Tony Martinez, George Curtis, Eugene Sacco, The Sacco Group, LLC, Sacco Group, LLC, dba Surety Solutions, Too Tired to Cook, Legion Club of Pasadena, Micro Project Management Company
People Names: Joel L. Lofton, Michael Seaton, Lynne Garcia, John McGuire, Tony Martinez, George Curtis, Eugene Sacco
Company Names: The Legion Corporation of Pasadena, The Sacco Group, LLC, Sacco Group, LLC, dba Surety Solutions, Too Tired to Cook, Micro Project Management Company
Places: Pasadena, California
Dates: January 29, 2024, February 23, 2024, February 29, 2024, March 7, 2024
Events: Motion to Transfer Venue, Motion to Deem Complex, Filing of Complaint, Filing of Opposition, Filing of Reply
Money: None
Intentions: Defendants seek to transfer venue and deem the case complex
Facts: Dispute over ownership of properties, multiple motions filed
Disputes: Venue selection, complexity of the case
Acts: Filing of motions, opposition, and reply
Agreements: None
Laws: California Rules of Court, Rule 3.400
Statutes: None
Roles: Judge Joel L. Lofton, Plaintiff, Defendant, Moving Party, Responding Party
Significant Statements: "The moving party must overcome the presumption that the plaintiff has selected the proper venue.", "It is the moving defendant's burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff's venue selection is not proper under any of the statutory grounds."
```

And here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has denied the defendants' motion to transfer the venue of the case from the current courthouse to another courthouse within the same county. The defendants had argued that the location of the real property at issue and the convenience of the witnesses justified the change. However, the judge found that the defendants failed to provide legal authority to justify the transfer and that the case is already located in the northeast district.

The judge has also denied the defendants' application to deem the case complex. The defendants had argued that the case involved numerous pretrial motions, a large number of witnesses and documentary evidence, and coordination with related actions. However, the judge found that the motions had not presented difficult or novel legal issues, that the defendants were all represented by the same counsel, and that there were no related cases to this current matter.

The judge has denied all of the defendants' requests, including their request for sanctions. The parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court indicating their intention to submit.
