  Case Number:  21GDCV00949    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 7, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PASADENA POST NO. 13, DEPARTMENT OF
CALIFORNIA, THE AMERICAN LEGION, a California non-profit corporation, v. THE
LEGION CORPORATION OF PASADENA, a California non-profit corporation; MICHAEL
SEATON, an individual, LYNN GARCIA, an individual; JOHN MCGUIRE, an individual;
TONY MARTINEZ, an individual; GEORGE CURTIS, an individual; EUGENE SACCO, an
individual; THE SACCO GROUP, LLC, a California limited liability corporation;
THE SACCO GROUP, LLC, dba SURETY SOLUTIONS, TOO TIRED TO COOK, LEGION CLUB OF
PASADENA, and MICRO PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMPANY; and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV00949
 
            
 
MOTION
TO TRANSFER VENUE
 
MOTION
TO DEEM COMPLEX

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants The Legion Corporation
of Pasadena, Michael Seaton, Lynne Garcia, John McGuire, Tony Martinez, George
Curtis, and Eugene Sacco 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Pasadena Post No. 13, Department of California, The American Legion
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 29, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed February 23, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed February 29, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move to transfer this
case from this courthouse to Pasadena courthouse. Defendants also requests an
order deeming the current case complex. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This complaint arises out of a dispute where Plaintiff Pasadena Post No.
13, Department of California, the American Legion’s (“Plaintiff” or “Pasadena
Post 13”) claims it is the proper corporate identity for the originally
incorporated Pasadena Post 13 corporation and thus the proper owner of
properties in dispute.
 
            Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (“SAC”) on
September 11, 2023, against Defendants the Legion Corp, Michael Seaton
(“Seaton”), Lynne Garcia (“Garcia”), John McGuire (“McGuire”), Tony Martinez
(“Martinez”), George Curtis (“Curtis”) Eugene Sacco (“Sacco”), the Sacco Group,
LLC (“Sacco Group”), and the Sacco Group, LLC dba Surety Solutions, Too Tired
to Cook, Legion Club of Pasadena, and Micro Project Management Company (“Sacco
Group”) alleging five causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2) breach
of fiduciary duty, (3) constructive fraud, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5)
conversion. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
request to change venue is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions is denied.
 
            Defendants’
application for an order deeming the case complex is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Motion
to Transfer Venue
 
            Defendants
move to transfer venue of this present action. 
 
            “ ‘Venue is
determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to change
venue is made. [Citations.]’ [Citation.] ‘For venue purposes, actions are
classified as local or transitory. To determine whether an action is local or
transitory, the court looks to the “main relief” sought. Where the main relief
sought is personal, the action is transitory. Where the main relief relates to
rights in real property, the action is local. [Citation.]’ ”
 
            “The moving
party must overcome the presumption that the plaintiff has selected the proper
venue. [Citation.]Thus, ‘[i]t is the moving defendant's burden to demonstrate
that the plaintiff's venue selection is not proper under any of the statutory
grounds.’ ” (Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830,
836.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that the present action should be transferred because of the location
of the real property at issue and because of the convenience of the witnesses.
However, Defendants interestingly seek to transfer this action to another
courthouse within the same county. Defendants also ask that this case be
transferred to a courthouse in the northeast district, but this case is already
in the northeast district. Defendants fail to advance any legal authority to
justify such a change or statutory grounds to warrant transferring venue. 
 
            Defendants’
motion to transfer venue is denied. 
 
            Motion
For Order Deeming Complex 
 
            Defendant
also requests an order deeming the current case complex. 
 
“In deciding whether an action is a
complex case under (a), the court must consider, among other things, whether
the action is likely to involve: [¶] (1) Numerous pretrial motions raising
difficult or novel legal issues that will be time-consuming to resolve; [¶] (2) Management of a large
number of witnesses or a substantial amount of documentary evidence; [¶] (3) Management of a large
number of separately represented parties; [¶] (4) Coordination with related actions
pending in one or more courts in other counties, states, or countries, or in a
federal court; or [¶] (5) Substantial
post judgment judicial supervision.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.400,
subdivision (b).)
 
            In
the present case, the court acknowledges that there have been numerous motions
in the present case. However, the motions have not presented difficult or novel
legal issues and primarily involved discovery disputes. Further, the
Defendants, while numerous, are all represented by the same counsel and there
are no related cases to this current matter. Further, at this stage there is no
determination that substantial post judgement judicial supervision is required.
Lastly, Defendants’ counsel statement that the parties will present many
witnesses with many documents at trial is not sufficient at this time to
warrant deeming this case complex. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
request to change venue is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions is denied.
 
            Defendants’
application for an order deeming the case complex is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   March 7, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
