 Case Number:  22AHCV01208    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 7, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: April 9, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         ADRIANNA TRUJILLO
and GEORGE NARVAEZ, v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware Corporation; and DOES 1
through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01208
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Ford Motor Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Adrianna Trujillo and George Narvaez
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 9, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed February 22, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed March 1, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves for summary
judgment. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Adrianna
Trujillo and George Narvaez’s warranty claim for a 2022 Ford Bronco, Vehicle
Identification Number 3FMCR9C6XNRD41786 (“Subject Vehicle” or “vehicle”). Plaintiffs
filed this complaint on December 1, 2022, alleging three causes of action for
(1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty, (2) violation
of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty, and (3) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
             
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party
may move for summary judgement in an action or proceeding if it is contented
that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section
473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment as to each cause of aciton alleged
in Plaintiffs’ complaint. The facts of the case are largely undisputed.
 
            On April 19, 2022, Plaintiffs purchased
the Subject Vehicle from Bob Wondries Ford in Alhambra. (SSUF No. 1.) On May
11, 2022, Plaintiffs presented the vehicle to Wondries for the first repair
attempt, which included complaints regarding the dashboard lights, a squeaky
brake, and the sunroof not fully opening. (SSUF No. 3, Exhibit 3 at pp.
46:16-47:5.) Wondries determined that the vehicle was operating as designed.
(SSUF No. 3.) Plaintiffs presented the vehicle to Wondries again on August 22,
2022. (SSUF No. 4.) On the second visit, Plaintiffs complained the vehicle was
shutting off and stalling. (Ibid.) Wondries performed repairs and
returned the vehicle to Plaintiffs. (Ibid.)
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
first cause of action for breach of express warrant under the Song-Beverly Act
fails as a matter of law because it was not presented multiple attempts to fix
the same issue. 
 
            “The Song–Beverly
Act is a remedial statute designed to protect consumers who have purchased
products covered by an express warranty.” (Robertson
v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.Ap.4th 785, 798.) “To that end, it regulates
warranty terms and imposes service and repair obligations on the parties who
issue the warranties.” (Rodriguez v. FAC US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th
209, 217.) 
 
            Civil Code
section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(1) provides, in part: “[I]f the manufacturer or
its representative in this state does not service or repair the goods to
conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
attempts, the manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the
buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that
amount directly attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the
nonconformity.” 
 
            “A plaintiff
pursuing an action under the Song–Beverly Act has the burden to prove the
following elements: (1) the product had a defect or nonconformity covered
by the express warranty; (2) the product was presented to an authorized
representative of the manufacturer for repair; and (3) the manufacturer or its
representative did not repair the defect or nonconformity after a reasonable
number of repair attempts.” (Robertson, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at pp.
798-99.) 
 
            Defendant
cites Silvio v. Ford Motor Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1205, for the
proposition that Plaintiffs claim as a matter of law. In Silvio, the
consumers presented the vehicle for repair only a single time. (Id. at
p. 1207.) The Court held that the language of the statute contemplated a plural
number of attempts and that one attempt was insufficient. (Id. at p.
1208.) Silvio, however, is not dispositive in the present case. It is
undisputed that Plaintiffs presented the vehicle for repair twice. The issue is
whether Plaintiffs needed to present the vehicle for the same issue more than
once.
 
            In support
of their respective positions, the parties cite unpublished federal district
court cases. For the purposes of the present motion, the applicable case is the
one cited by Defendants, Gamaty v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, CV 21-01063-RGK (AFMx)
2022 WL 1591701 (“Gamaty”). In Gamaty the issue of what
constituted “reasonable number of attempts” arose in the context of a motion in
limine to determine whether the plaintiff could aggregate unrelated vehicle
repair attempts. (Id. at *1.) The Court held that related repairs could
be aggregated while unrelated repairs could not. (Id. at *2.) Notably
the Court cited Silvio, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1208-1209, which
provides that “the reasonableness of the number of attempts is a question of
fact for the trier of fact.”
 
            Here,
Defendant argues and assumes without establishing that the repairs Plaintiffs
sought in their first visit to Wondries is unrelated to the repairs sought in
their subsequent visit. In the court’s estimation, this issue is for the trier
of fact. Further, Defendant has not established, for the purposes of this
motion, that the repairs sought were unrelated through any evidence or expert
declaration. While it can be reasonably inferred that the sunroof issues are
unrelated to the subsequent stalling issues, Defendant makes no attempt to
demonstrate that the issues with the dashboard lights and breaks are unrelated
to the stalling and stopping issues. Thus, Defendant has failed to meet its
burden of showing that Plaintiffs are unable to show an element of their first
cause of action. Defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is denied.
 
            Defendant
also moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
breach of implied warranty.  
 
            “Under the implied
merchantability warranty, ‘every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail
in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and the retail
seller's implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.’ (§ 1792.) The warranty ‘ “arises by operation of law” ’ and
therefore applies despite its omission from a purchase contract.” (Brand v.
Hyundai Motor America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1545.) 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
cannot establish timely revocation. However, revocation is not an element cited
by Defendant. Defendants cite California Civil Jury Instruction 3210 which
provides that the elements for a claim for breach of implied warranty of
merchantability are (1) that the plaintiff bought a consumer good from or
manufactured by defendant, (2) at the time of purchase, defendant was in the
business of selling or manufacturing consumer goods, (3) the consumer good was deficient,
(4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5) causation. Noticably absent is a requirement
that Plaintiffs revoke. 
 
            As explained by the California
Supreme Court in Gavaldon v. DaimlerChrysler Corp (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1246,
1263, additional theories of recovery exist because “section 1794 provides,
in subdivision (b)(1): “Where the buyer has rightfully rejected or justifiably
revoked acceptance of the goods or has exercised any right to cancel the
sale, Sections 2711, 2712, and 2713 of the Commercial Code shall apply.” This issue
however, is not an essential element to Plaintiff’s claim for breach of implied
warranty. 
 
            “A motion for summary adjudication
shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c, subdivision (f)(1).) Thus, Defendant’s
arguments that Plaintiffs failed to timely revoke their acceptance of the
contract for the Subject Vehicle fail to meet Defendant’s initial burden of
demonstrating Plaintiffs are unable to establish their claim for breach of
implied warranty.
 
            Defendant
also contends that Plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate damages. However,
Plaintiffs have provided that they have had to pay out of pocket for towing and
rental expenses. (AMF Nos. 3-4.) Plaintiffs have also had to make payments
under the contract for the vehicle, which they allege was faulty. Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is denied.
 
            Defendant
also moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s third. Defendant against
argues that Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate revocation and damages. Defendant’s
arguments are predicated on their position that Plaintiff’s first cause of
action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1793.2,
subdivision (d), fails. However, Defendant’s motion has been denied as to
Plaintiff’s first cause of action. Thus, Defendant’s arguments amount to a
position that Plaintiffs are precluded from a specific remedy rather than that
their cause of action fails. 
 
            Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is denied. 
            
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
            
            Moving Party to provide notice. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 7, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org

 