 Case Number:  23GDCV00440    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  03/15/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:23GDCV00440                                          
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: DAVID HERNANDEZ, a minor, by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem DAIZY VILLALVAZO v. CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation;
JOHN DOE, an individual; and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO FAC]
Moving Party:  Defendant, Jewish Big
Brothers Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles dba Camp Bob Waldorf (erroneously
sued as two separate entities) (“JBBBS” or “Defendant”)
Responding Party:
Plaintiff, David Hernandez, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Daizy
Villalvazo
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles dba Camp
Bob Waldorf (erroneously sued as two separate entities) (“JBBBS” or
“Defendant”), demurs generally and specifically under CCP §430.10(e) to
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action in the FAC for Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
 
This Demurrer will
be based upon this Notice, the attached Demurrer, the attached Memorandum of
Points and Authorities, the Declaration of Sherri Matta, and exhibits therein
filed and served concurrently herewith, upon all papers and pleadings on file
herein, and upon such further oral and/or documentary evidence as may be
presented at the time of the hearing.
 
Procedural
16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b)):Ok 
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Ok
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply


BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed the original Complaint on 03/03/2023.
 
On 1/19/2024, this Court heard JBBBS’s demurrer to the
original Complaint and overruled the demurrer to the fourth cause of action and
sustained the demurrer with leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action.
 
Plaintiff filed the FAC on 2/5/2024.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on or about July 19, 2019, Plaintiff
was an enrolled camper at the subject premises and that during Plaintiff’s
stay, Plaintiff was bullied for his appearance and/or birthmark and eating
habits by Defendant John Doe. (FAC ¶8.) [Defendant John Doe is alleged to be an
individual and direct employee of Defendant, JBBBS. (FAC  ¶4.)] On said date, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant John Doe suddenly, and without warning, physically and verbally
attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered
injuries and damages. (FAC ¶8.)
 
The FAC alleges five causes of action. The first three
causes of action for (1) Assault, (2) Battery, and (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress, are alleged only against Defendant John Doe. The fourth
cause of action for Negligence is alleged against all Defendants. The fifth
cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention is alleged
against Defendants Camp Bob Waldorf, unknown entity; and Jewish Big Brothers
Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles. [The demurrer to the FAC explains that
Camp Bob Waldorf, unknown entity; and Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters
Association of Los Angeles is not two entities and that it is one entity,
referred to in this demurrer as JBBBS]
 
On 2/16/2024, JBBBS filed a demurrer to the FAC.
 
On 2/28/2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
noting that Defendant John Doe was discovered to be Eric Brown.
 
JBBBS now demurs to the fifth cause of action for negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention.
 
MEET AND CONFER
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Defendant
alleges that a meet and confer occurred. (Matta Decl. ¶¶3-4.)
 
DEMURRER LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The
court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading … is that his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case
with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard
v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727,
734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only
parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose
of an entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”
(Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
ANALYSIS
Fifth Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention
In
JBBBS’s demurrer, it first points to the Court’s attention the allegations in
Paragraph 41 in the original Complaint and the allegations in Paragraph 41 of
the FAC for the Court to see the differences between the two.
Paragraph 41 in Original
Complaint 
Defendants CAMP BOB
WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS
ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, knew or should
have known that Defendant JOHN DOE was incompetent and unfit and that his incompetence
and unfitness created a particular risk to others, including Plaintiff.
Paragraph 41 in First
Amended Complaint 
Defendants CAMP BOB
WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS
ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, hired
Defendant JOHN DOE as a camp counselor. At the time of hiring Defendant JOHN
DOE, Defendants CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG
SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO
100, inclusive, knew or should have known that Defendant JOHN DOE was
incompetent and unfit to perform work as a camp counselor due to his
aggressive, inappropriate, and/or harmful behavior and/or tendencies,
particularly toward minor camp goers, such as the minor Plaintiff. Defendants
knew or should have known that Defendant JOHN DOE’s incompetence and unfitness
created a particular risk to others, including Plaintiff, and that harm
materialized when Defendant JOHN DOE bullied and/or humiliated the minor
Plaintiff for his appearance and/or birthmark and eating habits, and physically
and verbally attacked and assault the minor Plaintiff with such force that
Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.
JBBBS then argues that the amended allegations in ¶41
of the FAC don’t cure the defect from the previous ruling on the demurrer.
Strikingly, neither JBBBS nor Plaintiff make arguments
that address the defect that the Court pointed out in its previous ruling on
the demurrer to the original Complaint. 
JBBBS argues that Plaintiff’s
allegations are conclusory in the FAC: specifically, that JBBBS knew or should
have known that John Doe was incompetent and unfit. 
JBBBS also argues that
the FAC states no factual basis supporting the conclusions that JBBBS knew or
should have known of John Doe’s aggressive, inappropriate, and/or harmful
behavior and/or tendencies and that the harm materialized when John Doe engaged
in the subject conduct toward the Plaintiff. 
Overall, JBBBS seems to
be arguing that the FAC states no factual basis supporting the conclusions in
the FAC. 
The Court does not find
this argument availing, particularly at the pleading stage. 
The Opposition similarly
fails to address the issue brought up in the Court’s prior ruling. The
Opposition notes that Plaintiff added several allegations that JBBBS knew or
should have known about John Doe’s incompetence, being unfit, and aggressive
tendencies.
JBBBS again cites Doe
v. Capital Cities. Neither party addresses the issues that the Court
addressed with respect to why it sustained the demurrer with leave to amend
with respect to the original Complaint. 
In
relevant part of Doe v. Capital Cities, an aspiring actor, who allegedly
was drugged and then gang-raped by a casting director and four other men one
Sunday at the casting director's home, sued the casting director, the four
other men, and the casting director's employer; one of the actions asserted
against the casting director’s employer was negligent hiring. 
 
Plaintiff
asserted that ABC’s (casting director’s employer) negligence in either hiring
or supervising Marshall (casting director) resulted in the sexual assault and
on that basis ABC could be held liable. In that case, the Court explained as
follows:
 
Plaintiff alleged that ABC knew or should have known that
“Marshall engaged in the purchase and use of serious, mind-altering illegal
drugs, that defendant Marshall used his position at ABC to gain sexual favors,
and that use of a 'casting couch' is common within the entertainment
industry.” Given the harm that plaintiff suffered—a brutal sexual assault
after having been surreptitiously drugged—the pleading allegations are
insufficient to allege a cause of action. ABC's knowledge that Marshall personally
used “serious mind-altering drugs” does not equate with knowledge that he would
surreptitiously use drugs to place a prospective employee into a situation of
helplessness before violently assaulting him. Nor does ABC's knowledge that
Marshall used his position “to gain sexual favors” have material relevance to
this matter. Use of the word “gain” is consistent with the quid pro quo form of
sexual harassment9 but that is not the basis of plaintiff's
claim. The “casting couch” allegation suffers from a similar infirmity. That
is, knowledge that Marshall used his position of authority to extract or to
coerce sexual favors is not knowledge that he would first drug and then
attack a potential employee. In the context of negligent hiring, those are
qualitatively different situations. In sum, the cornerstone of a negligent
hiring theory is the risk that the employee will act in a certain way and the
employee does act in that way. Plaintiff has failed to allege those necessary
facts.
 
(Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.1038,
1054-55.)
 
As stated in the Court’s prior tentative:
The Court finds
Defendant’s argument persuasive. Plaintiff only alleged that Defendant knew or
should have known that Defendant John Doe was incompetent and unfit and that
his incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others, including
Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶41.) 
Liability is based upon
the facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee
created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.
[Citation omitted.]” (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038,
1054.) 
Here, Plaintiff did not
allege employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard, because Plaintiff did not allege what particular
risk or hazard was created by hiring the employee, and Plaintiff did not allege
that that particular harm materialized. 
(Min.
Order 1/19/2024, p. 11.)
With respect to the allegation in ¶41 of the FAC,
Plaintiff adds all sorts of allegations with respect to what JBBBS knew or
should have known about John Doe.
As to the allegations in the FAC, Plaintiff only cured
half of what the Court previously addressed. 
In ¶41 in the FAC, Plaintiff alleged, in relevant
part, that “…Defendants knew or should have known that Defendant JOHN DOE’s
incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others, including
Plaintiff, and that harm materialized when Defendant JOHN DOE bullied and/or
humiliated the minor Plaintiff for his appearance and/or birthmark and eating
habits, and physically and verbally attacked and assault the minor Plaintiff
with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.”
As can be seen from these allegations, Plaintiff still
fails to address the previous issue noted: what was the particular risk? 
In fact, Plaintiff just used the term “particular risk,”
as opposed to stating what the “particular risk” was. 
Confusingly, Plaintiff’s FAC does address the
particular harm that materialized. Plaintiff alleges that the harm materialized
was that “…JOHN DOE bullied and/or humiliated the minor Plaintiff for his
appearance and/or birthmark and eating habits, and physically and verbally
attacked and assault the minor Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff
suffered injuries and damages.”
Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or
should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard
and that particular harm materializes. [Citation omitted.]” (Doe v. Capital
Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) 
 
“It is often said that leave to amend a complaint should be
liberally granted, particularly with respect to a party’s initial complaint.” (City of Torrance v. Southern California Edison Company (2021)
61 Cal.App.5th 1071, 1091.) “The policy favoring amendment is so strong
that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (City
of Torrance v. Southern California Edison Company (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
1071, 1091 citing Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
1422, 1428.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that plaintiff can state a
good cause of action, it is error and an abuse of discretion to sustain the
demurrer without leave to amend.” (City of Torrance v. Southern California
Edison Company (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 1071, 1091 citing Campaign for
Quality Education v. State of California (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 896, 904.)
 
Here, it appears as if Plaintiff could cure the defects by alleging
that the particular harm that materialized was the particular risk that employer
knew or should have known about.
 
JBBBS’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the FAC is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND GRANTED. 
Plaintiff will have 20 days from this order to file and serve a second
amended complaint.
 
 