 Case Number:  23GDCV00033    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 03/15/2024 –
8:30am
Case No:   23GDCV00033
Trial Date: 09/23/2024
Case
Name: KNARIK
GHARAKHANIAN v. GLENDALE ADVENTIST MEDICAL CENTER; CORNERSTONE CONSTRUCTION
GROUP, INC.
[DEFENDANT’S
MSJ/MSA] 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Knarik Gharakhanian,
filed a Complaint on 01/06/2023 against Defendants, Glendale Adventist Medical
Center and Cornerstone Construction Group, Inc. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges
two causes of action – (1) Premises Liability and (2) General Negligence.
Plaintiff alleges that while they were in Defendant, Glendale Adventist Health
Center’s, place of business as a patron, active construction work was conducted
by Cornerstone Construction, and Plaintiff tripped over an object on the floor
which caused Plaintiff to fall.
 
On 05/04/2023, Defendant, Glendale
Adventist Medical Center dba Adventist Health Glendale, filed an Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
On 06/02/2023, Defendant,
Cornerstone Construction Group, Inc., filed an Answer to the Complaint.

On 06/02/2023, Defendant, Cornerstone
Construction Group, Inc., filed a Cross-Complaint against Chapala Concrete,
Inc. alleging six causes of action for: (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2)
Apportionment, (3) Contribution, (4) Total Indemnity, (5) Declaratory Relief,
and (6) Negligence.
 
On 08/07/2023, Cross-Defendant, Chapala Concrete, Inc.,
filed an Answer to Cornerstone’s Cross-Complaint.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant, Glendale Adventist
Medical Center dba Adventist Health Glendale (AHGL), moves the Court for an
order granting summary judgment in its favor and against Plaintiff, Knarik
Gharakhanian.
 
This
Motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff’s Complaint has no merit and fails
to present any triable issues of material fact against moving Defendant in that
Plaintiff has admitted (1) Defendant AHGL was not negligent towards Plaintiff,
(2) no act or omission to act on the part of Defendant AHGL was a substantial
factor in any injuries Plaintiff is claiming in this matter, and (3) there are
no facts to support Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant AHGL allowed a
dangerous condition to exist on the premises that contributed to Plaintiff’s
injuries.
 
This
Motion is based upon this Notice of Motion and Motion, the attached Memorandum
of Points and Authorities, the accompanying Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts filed concurrently herewith, the Declaration of Kylie A.
Schofield, Esq, upon all papers and pleadings on file in this action and upon
such other and further oral and/or documentary evidence as may be presented at
the time of hearing on this motion.”
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Glendale
Adventist Medical Center dba Adventist Health Glendale (AHGL)
Responding Party:  No Opposition submitted
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Proposed
Order; Schofield Declaration; Proposed Judgment; Evidence filed in support of
MSJ; 
 
Opposing Papers: No Opposition
submitted
 
Reply Papers: Notice of Non-Receipt of Plaintiff’s
Opposition
 
75/80 Days
Under CCP § 437c(2), notice
of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is
served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5
days if the place of address is within the State of California. If the notice
is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of
delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice
shall be increased by two court days. (CCP §437c(a)(2).)
 
As to the 75-day
timeliness requirement, Defendant’s motion is timely.
 
However, CCP § 437c(a)(2)
also requires the motion and supporting papers to be served on all other
parties to the action.
 
As to service upon the
Plaintiff, Defendant served Plaintiff via electronic transmission at
henrik@sardlaw.com. On eCourt, Plaintiff’s counsel’s email address is noted as
attorneyservice@usaexpressinc.com. The Court will have to hear argument as to
why Defendant did not serve Plaintiff’s counsel at the email address listed for
Plaintiff’s counsel on eCourt. This could be fatal to Defendant’s motion for
lack of notice to Plaintiff. The notice of Non-Opposition submitted by
Defendant suffers from the same service issue.
 
As to service upon
non-moving Defendant, Cornerstone, service appears to be proper.
 
As to Cross-Defendant Chapala
Concrete, moving Defendant did not serve Cross-Defendant’s counsel at the email
address listed on eCourt. While Cross-Defendant is not relevant to the
complaint in which Defendant is moving on since Defendant is moving against
Plaintiff with respect to the Complaint, CCP §437c(a)(2) still requires notice to
all other parties in the action. Moving Defendant is to address this service
issue.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
“The function of the
pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
CCP § 437c (a) provides that “a
party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is
contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.” The motion shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (CCP § 437c(c).)
 
In determining if the papers show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider
all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which
objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact. (Id.)
 
As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once
the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials
of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP
§437c(p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges two causes of
action, the first cause of action for premises liability and the second for
general negligence.
The elements of a
cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence. (Jones
v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 citing Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998) 
Accordingly, the
plaintiff must prove a legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty,
and the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Awad,,
39 Cal.App.5th at 1207 citing Beacon Residential Community Assn. v.
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP (2014) 59 Cal.4th 568, 573.) 
“Any matter admitted
in response to a request for admission is conclusively established against the
party making the admission for purposes of the pending action, unless the court
permits a withdrawal or amendment of the admission under section 2033.300. (§ 2033.410
(a).) 
A party may withdraw
or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only with
leave of court granted after notice to all parties. (§ 2033.300, subd. (a).)” (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1418.)
Defendant states that on
10/27/2023 the Court granted Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission
Admitted and deemed the requests admitted. 
In Defendant’s motion,
Defendant then argues:
Here, Plaintiff, Knarik Gharakhanian has admitted that
Defendant AHGL was not negligent towards her. Plaintiff, Knarik Gharakhanian,
has admitted that no act or omission to act on behalf of Defendant AHGL
was a substantial factor in the injuries Plaintiff is alleging. Plaintiff has
admitted Defendant AHGL did not allow a dangerous condition to exist on the
premises that gave rise to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Therefore, Plaintiff
Knarik Gharakhanian is incapable of meeting her burden of proof as a matter of
law to maintain either of her causes of action in this matter and summary
judgment must be granted.
(Def. Mot. p. 6., emph. in original.)
As can be seen on page 6 of Defendant’s motion, as cited above, Defendant
does not explain clearly which element or elements Plaintiff cannot establish in
each cause of action in the Complaint.  
Further, as can be seen on page 6 of Defendant’s motion, as cited
above, Defendant does not cite the evidence that supports its conclusions.
Defendant’s separate statement is equally as unhelpful. 
The first cause of action in the Complaint is for premises liability. The
second cause of action in the Complaint is for General Negligence.
Defendant’s Separate Statement includes two issues. Issue 1 is titled,
“GLENDALE ADVENTIST MEDICAL CENTER dba ADVENTIST HEALTH GLENDALE WAS NOT
NEGLIGENT NOR ALLOWED A DANGEROUS CONDITION TO EXIST ON ITS PREMISES.” 
Issue 2 is titled, “PLAINTIFF’S CLAIM OF PREMISE LIABILITY MUST FAIL
AS THERE WAS NO BREACH OF DUTY TO PLAINTIFF CAUSING HER ALLEGE INJURIES.”
As to Issue 1, it is unclear if Defendant is directing this issue to the
second cause of action for negligence, or if Issue 1 is something that applies
to both causes of action in the Complaint. 
“The Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in support of a
motion must separately identify: (A)  Each cause of action, claim for
damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the
motion; and (B)  Each supporting material fact claimed to be without
dispute with respect to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty,
or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion.” (Cal Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1350(d)(1)(A)-(B).)
It is unclear if Issue 1 is identifying a cause of action, an issue of
duty, or an affirmative defense.
Further, in the separate statement, Issue 1 contains undisputed
material facts (UMF) numbered 1-5, and Issue 2 contains UMF numbered 6-10.
As to the evidence cited in the separate statement, the most specific
Defendant gets with citing its evidence is “Exhibit A,” “Exhibit B,” or
“Exhibit C.” 
“The separate
statement must be in the two-column format specified in (h). The statement must
state in numerical sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column
followed by the evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same
column. Citation to the evidence in support of each material fact must
include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(3), emph. added.)
Here, Defendant does
not properly cite its evidence. 
As an example, Exhibit
B is frequently cited throughout Defendant’s separate statement. Exhibit B is
Requests for Admission, Set One. Not once in Defendant’s separate statement
does Defendant cite to the specific request for admission that allegedly
supports each undisputed material fact in the separate statement. While CRC
3.1350(d)(3) does not necessarily require citation to each request for
admission, Defendant most definitely did not comply with CRC 3.1350(d)(3)
because it failed to reference the page and line numbers of each exhibit
supporting the purported undisputed material fact.
The Court will hear
argument from Defendant. Defendant would need to address the two service issues
that the Court pointed out in its procedural section. Further, Defendant would
need to explain which element, or elements, Plaintiff cannot establish in each
cause of action in the Complaint. Further, Plaintiff would need to explain which
piece of evidence establishes that Plaintiff cannot establish an element, or
elements, in each cause of action.
 