 Case Number:  22STCV39168    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  82 


 
MORAD BEN NEMAN, et al.,  


 
 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
22STCV39168




vs.
 
 
PAYAM BAHARI, et al.,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON APPLICATIONS FOR RIGHT TO
  ATTACH ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS (1) PAYAM BAHARI, (2) 114 GRAND CYPRESS, LLC, (3)
  CAVALINI, INC., AND (4) CASTER MODELO, LLC
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Plaintiffs Morad Ben
Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC move for right to attach orders against
defendants (1) Payam Bahari; (2) 114 Grand Cypress, LLC; (3) Cavalini,
Inc.; and (4) Caster Modelo, LLC in the amount of $1,740,312.50.
 
I.       Factual Background
            
            Plaintiff Morad Ben Neman and
defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari, Haim Bahari, and Tal Bahari
(collectively “Bahari Defendants”) allegedly agreed to enter into a joint
venture whereby the joint venture would purchase undervalued real properties
and split the profits from the sale of the properties. (FAC ¶¶ 18, 19.) Under
the terms of the alleged joint venture, the Bahari Defendants agreed that
plaintiffs – Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC, through which Neman conducted
business – would identify opportunities for investment. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 19.)
Defendants allegedly agreed to provide the capital needed to purchase the properties
and to not pursue any opportunities presented by plaintiffs without paying
plaintiffs their share of profits. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 19.) The Bahari Defendants also
allegedly agreed that plaintiffs would have a 50% interest in ownership and
profits of all properties purchased pursuant to the joint venture. (FAC ¶¶
17(A), 19.) 
 
            Plaintiffs purportedly disclosed to
the Bahari Defendants the availability of real property located at 114 Grand
Cypress Avenue in Palmdale (“Grand Cypress Property”). (FAC ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs supposedly
explained to the Bahari Defendants that they intended to purchase the real
property and the business located at the property but were waiting until the
owner to return from Texas before presenting a proposal to acquire both the
property and the business. (FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
It
is undisputed no written contract between the Bahari Defendants and plaintiffs
exists with respect to the Grand Cypress Property (See FAC ¶ 21.)  Instead, plaintiffs claim that, before
plaintiffs could obtain a written contract entitling them to purchase the Grand
Cypress Property and the business located thereon, defendants purchased the
Grand Cypress Property to the exclusion of plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶ 20-22.) The
Bahari Defendants purchased the Grand Cypress Property through defendant 114 Grand Cypress, LLC (“114 Grand Cypress”), using
the resources of defendants Cavalini, Inc.
(“Cavalini”) and/or Caster Modelo, LLC (“Caster Modelo”). (FAC ¶¶ 7, 24.) The
Bahari Defendants are members, officers, and/or alter egos of 114 Grand
Cypress, Cavalini,
and/or Caster Modelo. (FAC ¶¶ 3-6, 8, 9.)
 
Plaintiffs
thus claim, among other things, that defendants breached the alleged joint
venture agreement by “surreptitiously” purchasing the Grand Cypress Property
and thereafter re-selling it for a profit “while excluding plaintiffs as
partners” and causing plaintiffs “tens of millions of dollars in damages.”  (FAC ¶ 29.)
 
II.      Applicable Law
 
            “Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the
action is brought.” (CCP § 484.010.) 
 
The application shall be executed under oath and
must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure
the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement
of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the
action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section
101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the
writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes
that such property is subject to attachment. (CCP § 484.020.)
 
            The
application for a writ of attachment must be supported “by an affidavit showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (CCP § 484.030.) 
 
The Court shall consider the showing made by the
parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record. (CCP §
484.090(a), (d).) The Court shall issue a right to attach order if it finds all
of the following:
 
(1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is
one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 
(2) The plaintiff has established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.
 
(CCP § 484.090(a)(1-4).) 
 
            At
the times prescribed by CCP § 1005(b), the defendant must be served with a copy
of the summons and complaint, notice of application and hearing, and a copy of
the application and supporting affidavits. (CCP § 484.040.)
 
“The Attachment Law statutes are subject to strict
construction….” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.) 
 
III.     Analysis
 
Of
the several requirements for issuance of a right to attach order set forth
above, the only real dispute is as to the probable validity of plaintiffs’
breach of contract claim.  “A
claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the
plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (CCP § 81.190.)
“If the defendant opposes the application, ‘the court must then consider the
relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a
determination of the probable outcome of the litigation.’ [Citations.]” (Pech
v. Morgan (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 841, 855.) 
Here, in view of the competing evidence and declarations submitted in
connection with the instant matter, the Court does not find it more likely than
not that plaintiffs will obtain judgment in their favor on their claim that an
oral joint venture agreement was breached.
 
             Plaintiff Neman avers that Payam Bahari
represented to him that “he, his family members and their respective entities,
Cavalini and Caster Modelo…had funds available to invest in real estate with me
and that he was authorized to speak and negotiate on behalf of [defendants] and
he agreed that any properties disclosed to him could only be purchased by our
joint venture, not by [defendants] alone.” (Neman Decl. ¶ 2.) Neman also avers:
“As part of our joint venture, [defendants] agreed to provide all of the
capital. Investment required to acquire properties identified by [him] for
acquisition while agreeing to split the profits from all such ventures, 50/50.”
(Ibid.) 
 
            Defendants
dispute the existence of such a joint venture agreement. Payam Bahari avers
that he, Neman, and Neman’s associate toured the Grand Cypress Property as a
property comparable to a property located at 42933 Business Center Parkway in Lancaster,
which Neman was interested in purchasing. (Bahari Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5.) Neman
purportedly told Payam Bahari that the Grand Cypress Property was not a good
deal. (Id. ¶ 6.) According to Payam Bahari, neither Neman nor anyone
affiliated with Neman “ever mentioned or discussed purchasing the [Grand Cypress]
Property together, at this time or any other time.” (Ibid.; see also
Bahari Decl. ¶ 8.) Payam Bahari also never had any discussion about a joint
venture, generally or with respect to the Grand Cypress Property, with Neman or
anyone affiliated with Neman. (Bahari Decl. ¶ 8.) Payam Bahari later caused a
non-party to purchase the Grand Cypress Property when the property reduced in
price. (Id. ¶ 9.) The sales broker never mentioned Neman or any other
potential buyer or suggested that Payam Bahari sign a joint brokerage agreement
with plaintiffs. (Ibid.) 
 
            The
Court does not find it more likely than not that Nemen’s version of what
happened will necessarily carry the day. 
Equally, if not more, plausible is Bahari’s recitation of events
refuting the existence of any oral joint venture agreement.  Indeed, it strains credulity to believe that
as an “active real estate investor for over forty (40) years” (Neman Decl. ¶
2), Neman would not have reduced the terms of a potentially multi-million-dollar
joint venture to a writing to govern the purchase and sale of properties
acquired pursuant to the joint venture.  Further,
the existence of the written agreement between entities related to plaintiffs
and defendants concerning an agreement to jointly purchase a property at 42933
Business Center Parkway in Lancaster (the “Lancaster Property”) strongly
suggests that an agreement between Nemen and the Bahari defendants for a real
estate joint venture of the type alleged here would likewise have been reduced
to writing.  (Cf. Bahari Decl. ¶¶ 11-12
& Ex. 10 [Tenancy in Common Agreement].) 
Moreover, the terms of that agreement also suggest there was no joint
venture agreement as claimed by plaintiffs. 
The “Tenancy in Common Agreement” concerning the Lancaster Property
states that Caster Modelo and Lancaster Eagle, the “Co-Tenants” under the agreement,
“expressly disclaim[] any intention to create a partnership, corporation, joint
venture, or other business entity with the other Co-Tenant or between the Co-Tenant
with any other person.” (Bahari Decl. Ex. 10 at ¶ 2(a).) Caster Modelo and
Lancaster Eagle also agreed that “there are no prior or contemporaneous
written or oral agreements, undertakings,
promises, covenants, or warranties not contained” in their agreement. (Id.
at ¶ 12(a).) 
 
Accordingly,
plaintiffs fails to demonstrate the probable validity of their claim for a
share of the profits from the sale of the Grand Cypress Property pursuant to
the alleged oral joint venture agreement.
 
IV.     Conclusion
 
            The
application is DENIED.

 
            Defendants
request an order that the $1,740,312.50 in encumbered funds of Castor Modelo,
LLC shall be immediately released by escrow to Caster Modelo, LLC.  It is not clear this Court has the power to
order a non-party escrow agent to release funds, but it is clear that the temporary
protective order that encumbered said funds expires per its explicit terms on
October 26, 2023 (the date of the instant hearing) and therefore presents no
obstacle to the release of funds from escrow going forward.
 
Defendants also request an order that plaintiffs
pay the interest that has accrued on the funds encumbered by the September 13
temporary protective order, as well as the fees and costs incurred in defeating
the attachment. (See CCP § 90.020(a).) It is premature to determine
whether defendants are entitled to such recovery. A wrongful attachment, for
which plaintiffs may be liable, is defined to include the “service of a
temporary protective order in an action in which the plaintiff does not recover
judgment.” (CCP § 490.010(b).) Whether plaintiff is unable to recover judgment
still remains to be seen. 