 Case Number:  22STCP02072    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  82 


 
TIMOTHY HUNT, M.D., 


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
22STCP02072
 

 



vs.
 
 
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA, DEPARTMENT OF
  CONSUMER AFFAIRS, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 
[TENTATIVE] RULING ON VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT
  OF ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 

 


            Petitioner Timothy Hunt, M.D. seeks
a writ of mandate directing respondent Medical Board of California, Department
of Consumer Affairs, State of California to reverse the revocation of his
license to practice medicine.  
 
I.       Factual Background
 
             Petitioner Timothy Hunt, M.D. is a physician
and orthopedic surgeon. (AR 5.) On November 22, 1995, respondent Medical Board
of California (“Board”) issued to petitioner a license to practice medicine.
(AR 2.) 
 
            Between 2008 and 2013, petitioner
and other physicians were part of a scheme to refer patients to Pacific
Hospital for spinal and other surgeries and other medical services in exchange
for kickbacks. (AR 4.) The parties to the conspiracy hid the receipt of illegal
compensation through various written agreements and transactions, including a
loan, a sublease that was substantially below market value, an option
agreement, and a pharmacy dispensing agreement. (AR 4.) By January 2009, petitioner
and other conspirators entered into an option contract whereby petitioner was
paid $30,000 per month for referring patients to Pacific Hospital. (AR 4.)
 
            On August 24, 2018, in the federal
case, United States of America v. Timothy James Hunt (No. CR
17-742-JLS-1), petitioner pled guilty to one felony count of conspiracy
to commit (1) honest services mail and wire fraud, (2) interstate travel in aid
of bribery, and (3) payment or receipt of kickbacks in connection with a federal
healthcare program. (AR 3, 155-57.) Petitioner agreed to forfeit $3 million
which petitioner admitted having obtained as part of the conspiracy. (AR
148-49.) Petitioner also agreed and admitted to a statement of facts in support
of the guilty plead. (AR 159, 171-76.) The statement of facts was “not meant to
indicate that petitioner provided any patients with substandard medical care or
that any treatment he provided or prescribed was not medically necessary.” (AR
176.) 
 
            On September 27, 2019, petitioner
was sentenced to 24 months in prison and three years of supervised release. (AR
177.) After having served seven and a half months in federal prison and 13
months of home confinement, the balance of petitioner’ s sentence was reduced
for good behavior. (AR 4.) Petitioner remains on supervised release, which is
scheduled to end in July 2024. (AR 4.) 
 
            Pursuant to Business and Professions
Code § 2236.1, the Board suspended petitioner’s medical license effective
November 12, 2019. (AR 59.) The Board filed an accusation against petitioner, which
sought the revocation of his medical license based on his acceptance of
kickbacks for patient referrals in violation of Business and Professions Code §
650, his engagement in dishonest and corrupt acts, and his conviction of a
crime “substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a
physician and surgeon.” (AR 46.) 
 
            The administrative hearing took
place before Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) Joseph D. Montoya on August 23,
2021. (AR 1.) Petitioner admitted he was in the wrong and expressed remorse.
(AR 6.) Petitioner presented three physicians and a pastor as character
witnesses who testified to his remorse and acceptance of full responsibility
for his crime. (AR 6-8.) The three physicians testified about petitioner’s
competence and their willingness to refer patients to petitioner, despite the
conviction. (AR 6-8.) 
 
            On September 22, 2021, the ALJ found
cause to impose license discipline for petitioner’s conviction of a crime
substantially related to the duties, qualifications, and functions of a physician
and surgeon, his receipt for payment for patient referrals in violation of
Business and Professions Code § 650, and his dishonest and corrupt acts. (AR
25.) In deciding the appropriate discipline based on the disciplinary
guidelines of the Board, the ALJ found the following: 
 
On
balance, it is concluded that [petitioner] is not beyond redemption, and that
he can be rehabilitated in a manner that will not endanger the public. He has
been on the road to rehabilitation since he approached the authorities to
resolve the criminal matter, and to enter a guilty plea. He has shown to his
colleagues, and during the hearing that he has made progress in attaining the
state of mind expected of one who has been rehabilitated. [Petitioner] has
already paid a heavy price for his wrongdoing, and the weight of the evidence
leads to the conclusion that he will never engage in such dishonesty again. At
the same time, his skills as a physician can be salvaged by a disciplinary
order that imposes less than outright revocation.
 
(AR
27.) 
 
            The ALJ revoked petitioner’s license
but stayed the revocation and placed him on probation for five years. (AR 27.) Petitioner’s
license was suspended another six months “to send a clear message…that his
misconduct is not countenanced by the Board.” (AR 27-28.) Petitioner was
prohibited from engaging in the solo practice of medicine and from supervising
physician assistants and advanced practice nurses. (AR 31, 33.) The ALJ ordered
the appointment of a monitor to determine whether petitioner is billing appropriately.
(AR 29-30.) Petitioner was ordered to take an ethics course and to complete 100
hours of community service within the first two years of probation. (AR 28,
32.) Petitioner was ordered to submit the accusation and the ALJ’s decision to
any facility where he practices medicine. (AR 32.) 
 
            On November 23, 2021, the Board
issued an order declining to adopt the decision of the ALJ. (AR 13.) On
February 9, 2022, the Board held a hearing regarding whether the proposed
penalty should be modified. (AR 4.) On March 7, 2022, the Board entered its
Decision after Non-Adoption, finding cause to revoke his license:
 
Here,
[petitioner] was an active participant in a sophisticated conspiracy to defraud
Medicare over a period of many years. Through his deceit for self-gain, he hid
his crimes from his colleagues, who held him in high esteem and were shocked by
his behavior. Moreover, he hid his illegal conduct from his patients and
Medicare until he recognized that the conspiracy had been discovered by law
enforcement. Despite knowing that what he was doing was wrong, he only came
forward once he saw in the news that a co-conspirator had agreed to plead
guilty to federal corruption charges.
 
[Petitioner]
abused his position of trust as a physician to enrich himself and obtain over a
million and a half dollars in illegal referral fees. While [petitioner] has
taken steps to demonstrate he is on the road to rehabilitation, his conviction
in September 2019 is relatively recent. [Petitioner] is still on parole, and he
has not started making payments toward the forfeiture of three million dollars.
In light of the above, the
Board
has determined that [petitioner] has not demonstrated that financial strain
would not prompt him to abuse his position of trust as a physician again.
Consequently, his license must be revoked to protect the public.
            
(AR 1,
11-12.)
 
Due
to the forfeiture order, petitioner lost his house. (AR 4.) Petitioner has not
paid back the three million dollars. (AR 4-5.) Petitioner now works in the
shipping and receiving department of a bakery. (AR 6.) 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
             On June 2, 2022, petitioner filed a Verified
Petition for Writ of Administrative Mandamus. On September 12, 2022, respondent
filed a Return by Way of Answer to Petition for Writ of Mandamus. On June 20, 2023, petitioner
filed an opening brief. On July 18, 2023, respondent filed an opposition. On August
2, 2023, petitioner filed a reply. The Court has received a hard copy of the administrative
record.
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
CCP § 1094.5 is the
administrative mandamus provision providing the procedure for judicial review
of adjudicatory decisions rendered by administrative agencies. Under CCP §
1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the respondent has proceeded
without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the evidence.
(CCP § 1094.5(b).)
 
            In the opening brief, petitioner discusses two standards
of review that may be applicable to a § 1094.5 proceeding: independent judgment
and abuse of discretion. (OB at 7:18-10:3.) 
 
“Where the decision of a
statewide administrative tribunal lacking constitutional authority to exercise
judicial functions substantially affects fundamental rights, particularly the
right to practice one's profession or trade, courts must exercise their independent
judgment in determining whether the administrative findings are supported by
the weight of the evidence. [Citations.]” (Cadilla v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961, 966.) 
 
“However, the propriety
of a penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a matter vested in the
discretion of the agency and its decision may not be disturbed unless there has
been a manifest abuse of discretion. [Citations.]” (Ibid.; see also Williamson v. Board of Medical
Quality Assurance
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1343, 1347.) If reasonable minds can differ about the
propriety of the disciplinary action, there is no abuse of discretion. (County
of Los Angeles v. Civil Service Commission (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 620, 634.)
 
Here, there is no dispute
about the administrative findings. At the outset of the hearing before the
Board, petitioner stipulated to the truth of paragraphs 11 through 18 in the
First Amended Accusation against petitioner. (AR 3.) Paragraph 14, the truth to
which petitioner stipulated, alleged that petitioner made the following admissions
in connection with his guilty plea in the federal criminal case:
 
Beginning in or around
June 2008, through at least February 2013, [petitioner] and his co-conspirators
agreed to participate and did, in fact, participate in an illegal arrangement
to pay and receive kickbacks in exchange for referring surgeries and other
patient-related services [to co-conspirator owned healthcare entities]. As part
of the arrangement, [petitioner] agreed with [his co-conspirators] to receive
proceeds of the kickback scheme, and subsequently participate in financial
transactions over $10,000 involving proceeds from the kickback scheme….
 
Between 2008 and February
2013, [petitioner] referred patients for surgeries and services that resulted
in approximately $16 million dollars billed to state and/or federal health care
programs. Co-conspirators paid [petitioner] approximately $3.4 million dollars
during this period, a substantial portion of which constitute illegal
kickbacks.
 
(AR 45.) The Board made
factual findings regarding petitioner’s conviction that were consistent with
petitioner’s stipulation. (AR 4.) Based on petitioner’s stipulation and the
Board’s findings, the Board found cause to discipline petitioner’s license based
on the charges set forth in the First Amended Accusation. (AR 9-10, 46.) 
 
Whether petitioner is
subject to discipline is not in dispute here. (OB at 7:8-9 [“In this case, Dr.
Hunt does not dispute that cause existed to discipline his medical license
based on his 2018 felony conviction for conspiracy to pay and receive kickbacks
for patient referrals”].) The parties dispute the propriety of revocation of
petitioner’s medical license. Accordingly, the Court reviews the revocation for
manifest abuse of discretion. 
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            In assessing the propriety of a
penalty, the “overriding consideration … is the extent to which the employee's
conduct resulted in, or if repeated is likely to result in, ‘[h]arm to the
public service.’ [Citations.] Other relevant factors include the circumstances
surrounding the misconduct and the likelihood of its recurrence.” (Skelly v.
State Personnel Bd. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 194, 218.) “The
revocation or suspension of a license is not penal, but rather, the Legislature
has provided for such to protect the life, health and welfare of the people at
large ….” (Furnish v. Board of Medical Examiners (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d
326, 331.)
 
            It is undisputed that the Board was entitled to find that
the ALJ’s recommended discipline was insufficient. (See Gov. Code § 11517(c)(2)(E)
[allowing agency to reject proposed decision of administrative law judge]; Alford v. Department of Motor
Vehicles (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 560, 566 [same].) However, the Board’s decision to do so must be
supported by the findings. (CCP § 1094.5(b).) 
 
            Here, the Board found that petitioner
entered into an arrangement with physicians and others to receive payments in
exchange for referring patients to receive medical services at Pacific
Hospital. (AR 4.) Prior to entering into the scheme, petitioner was under
financial strain after being unable to afford the price of his father’s medical
practice. (AR 5.) When a part owner of Pacific Hospital offered petitioner a
loan and a place to see patients, petitioner viewed the offer as a “life raft.”
(AR 5.) When petitioner did not receive a portion of the loan, the majority
owner got involved. (AR 5.) Even though petitioner did not completely trust the
majority owner and knew that “something was not right,” petitioner “let his
desperation drive his decision-making” and entered into the arrangement. (AR 5-6.)
Respondent approached prosecutors to work out a plea only after a
co-conspirator was arrested. (AR 3.) 
 
            Due to the forfeiture order in the
federal criminal case, petitioner lost his house, resulting in his wife and him
living in a mother-in-law apartment. (AR 4.) Petitioner has not paid back the
$3 million owed under the forfeiture order entered in the federal criminal
case. (AR 4-5.) Petitioner now works in the shipping and receiving department
of a bakery. (AR 6.) 
 
            Based on these facts, the Board had grounds
to find that petitioner defrauded Medicare over many years. (AR 11.) The Board
was also entitled to conclude that, if petitioner were allowed to keep his
medical license, petitioner’s financial troubles could again prompt him to
abuse his position as a physician. (See AR 11.) 
 
“Protection
of the public shall be the highest priority for the Medical Board of California
in exercising its licensing, regulatory, and disciplinary functions. Whenever
the protection of the public is inconsistent with other interests sought to be
promoted, the protection of the public shall be paramount.” (Bus. & Prof.
Code § 2001.1.) A reasonable person could find that, in order to protect
the public, the Board was entitled to revoke petitioner’s license. (See Yazdi
v. Dental Board of California (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 25, 34 [“The fact that
reasonable minds might differ as to the propriety of the penalty imposed
fortifies the conclusion that the administrative body acted within its
discretion”].)
 
Although
petitioner expressed remorse, the genuineness of which was corroborated by
character witnesses and which respondent does not appear to dispute (AR 6-8),
“[r]emorse does not
demonstrate rehabilitation.” (In re Conflenti (1981) 29 Cal.3d 120, 124.)
“[A] truer indication of rehabilitation will be presented if petitioner can
demonstrate by his sustained conduct over an extended period of time….” (Ibid.)
Although petitioner is complying with the terms of his supervised release,
which is scheduled to end in July 2024 (AR 4-5), such good behavior while under
supervision is entitled to less weight. (AR 4; In re Gossage (2000) 23
Cal.4th 1080, 1099.) 
 
Petitioner
contends that the Board’s decision violates Topanga. (OB 11:23-12:8.) In
Topanga Assn. for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles (1974) 11
Cal.3d 506, the Supreme Court held that “implicit in [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1094.5 is a requirement that the agency which renders the challenged
decision must set forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw
evidence and ultimate decision or order.” (Topanga, 11 Cal.3d at 515.) The
Topanga Court explained that “among other functions, … findings enable
the reviewing court to trace and examine the agency's mode of analysis.” (Id.
at 516.)
 
“Administrative
agency findings are generally permitted considerable latitude with regard to
their precision, formality, and matters reasonably implied therein.” (Southern
Pacific Transportation Co. v. State Bd. of Equalization (1987) 191
Cal.App.3d 938, 954; see also Oduyale v. Cal. State Bd. of Pharmacy
(2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 101, 113 [Topanga “does not require the Board to
outline all the reasons it opted not to impose a lesser form of discipline. It
is only required to justify the penalty imposed, including ‘a statement of the
factual and legal basis of the decision’”].)
 
Petitioner
contends that the Board did not establish that the $3 million owed under the
forfeiture order could cause petitioner to use his license to commit further
financial crimes “absent any evidence of how and when he would be required to
pay the forfeiture sum to the government, whether through installments based on
his income or otherwise.” (OB 12:13-19.) Petitioner also contends that the
Board failed to explain why his supervised release status would not reduce the
risk that he would commit further financial crimes or why the restrictions on
practice proposed by the ALJ were not sufficient to address the Board’s
concerns of recidivism. (OB at 13:4-12.) 
 
The
Court disagrees. In its detailed, 11-page decision, the Board sufficiently
explained its cause for concern regarding petitioner’s motivation to commit
financial crimes. The Board set forth the financial difficulties petitioner was
experiencing before entering into the arrangement to accept payments in
exchange for referrals and petitioner’s current financial difficulties which
could encourage him to use his license to commit financial crimes yet again. While
the monitoring and restrictions recommended by the ALJ or petitioner’s current
supervised release status may render it more difficult for respondent to abuse
his license, the Board was not required to address why alternative forms of
discipline were not appropriate. The Board was only obligated to justify the
revocation of petitioner’s license. Based on petitioner’s current failure to
pay any portion of the forfeiture order, the Board was entitled to revoke his
license to ensure that petitioner would not be placed in a position where he might
again be tempted to abuse a position of trust and act upon that temptation to
the public’s detriment.  The decision
complies with Topanga.
 
V.      Conclusion
 
            The
petition is DENIED. Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), respondent shall prepare,
serve, and ultimately file a proposed judgment.