 Case Number:  24VECV00496    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ILAN KENIG, an
  individual, 
                  Plaintiff,
         vs.
 
YOSSI (YOSEF) ZAGA, an
  individual, MOISES GILINSKI, an individual, ISAAC CROITORU, an individual, OZ
  LA FUND LLC, a California Corporation, RABBI YOSHIA YAO YOSEF PINTO, an
  individual,
MOSDOT
  SHUVA ISRAEL INC, a New York Corporation, and Does 1 through 100, inclusive,
 
                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)))))))))


     CASE NO.: 24VECV00496
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING WITH AND WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND DEFENDANTS ISAAC CROITORU’S AND OZ
  LA FUND LLC’S DEMURRER 
 
ORDER
  DENYING IN PART AND GRANTING IN PART WITH LEAVE TO AMEND DEFENDANTS ISAAC
  CROITORU’S AND OZ LA FUND LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 
 




AND ALL RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS.


)
)
)


    
  
 
 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
This case
arises out of a business dispute between Plaintiff Ilan Kenig (“Plaintiff”) and
Defendants Yossi (Yosef) Zaga (“Zaga”), Moises Gilinski (“Gilinski”), Isaac
Croitoru (“Croitoru”), OZ LA Fund, LLC (“OZ”), Rabbi Yoshia Yao Yosef Pinto
(“Rabbi Pinto”), and Mosdot Shuva Israel Inc. (“Mosdot”) (collectively,
“Defendants”). Among other issues, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “are accused of
exploiting their positions for personal gain, including misappropriating
Partnership assets and opportunities, and engaging in transactions adverse to
the partnership’s interests. This pattern of deception…was aimed at diluting
the Plaintiff’s ownership and divesting him of his interests. These actions…[caused]
significant financial harm to the Plaintiff, including loss of majority stake,
partnership opportunities, and exposure to tax liabilities.” (See First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), ¶ 112.) [1] 
Croitoru and
OZ (collectively, “Demurring Defendants”) now demurrer to all sixteen of
Plaintiff’s causes of action. Demurring Defendants also seek to strike many
portions of Plaintiff’s FAC.   
II.     PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On February
5, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Fraud; (3) Misrepresentation; (4) Conspiracy to Commit a Fraud; (5) Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (6) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (7) Open
Book Account; (8) Books and Records; (9) Aiding Abetting; (10) Express
Indemnity; (11) Conversion; (12) Quantum Meruit; (13) Declaratory Relief; (14) Specific
Performance; (15) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Interests;
(16) Intentional Interference with Current Business Advantage; and (17) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
On June 14,
2024, this Court denied Croitoru’s Motion to Quash for Lack of Personal
Jurisdiction. 
On July 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed his FAC alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Fraud; (3)
Misrepresentation; (4) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (5)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (6) Open Book Account; (7) Books and Records; (8)
Aiding Abetting; (9) Express Indemnity; (10) Conversion; (11) Quantum Meruit;
(12) Declaratory Relief; (13) Specific Performance; (14) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Interests; (15) Intentional Interference
with Current Business Advantage; and (16) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress against various combinations of the Defendants. 
On September
20, 2024, this Court denied Rabbi Pinto and Mosdot’s Motion to Quash in part,
allowing Plaintiff to conduct jurisdictional discovery on Mosdot and continuing
the hearing on the motion to April 10, 2025. 
On September
23, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike
(“Motion”). 
On November
18, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
On November
22, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed their Reply. 
In the
meantime, there are multiple discovery motions which have been taken off calendar
pending an Informal Discovery Conference with the Court.
III.    DEMURRER
A.      Legal Standard
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[2] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v.
California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007
(citation omitted); see also Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed
to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally
construed. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)  
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (See
Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court
to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso
v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862
[disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos.
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court
record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
B.      The Parties Properly Met and Conferred.
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a),
emphasis added.) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the
results of the meet and confer process. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
         Demurring
Defendant’s counsel filed a declaration attesting to his written and telephonic
meet and confer efforts. (See Declaration of Christopher James filed September
23, 2024, ¶¶ 3-8.) Demurring Defendants have fulfilled their meet and confer
obligations.    
C.      Analysis 


1.             
Plaintiff Fails to State a Breach of
Contract Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178 (cleaned up).) 
Demurring Defendants argue two
contracts are relevant to Croitoru and OZ: the Parent AOAs [Amended Operating
Agreements] and the Investment Agreement. (See Demurrer, pg. 5; see
also FAC, ¶¶ 50-51, Exs. E-G.) Demurring Defendants argue OZ is not a party
to the Parent AOAs and that Plaintiff fails to allege Croitoru breached any
part of the Parent AOAs, as no “provision obligated Croitoru ‘to replace FMB’s
former financial funding avenues’ or ‘personally fund[] or secur[e] funding to
relieve Plaintiff of his personal liabilities in FMB,’” and because Plaintiff
does not allege “that he sought or expected some unperformed managerial
function from Croitoru.” (Demurrer, pp. 5-6, quoting FAC, ¶¶ 62, 65.)
As to the Investment Agreement,
Demurring Defendants argue Plaintiff is not a party to that agreement and does
not have standing to enforce it. (See Demurrer, pg. 6.) Even if he was
party to the Investment Agreement, “the FAC still fails to identify any
provision [of the Investment Agreement] requiring further contributions.”
(Id. (emphasis added).)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues he is
an intended third-party beneficiary of “these agreements” and that these
agreements are related and therefore must be interpreted together. (Opposition,
pg. 5.) 
Plaintiff has not stated sufficient
facts to allege a breach of contract cause of action against Demurring
Defendants. OZ is not a party to the Parent AOAs and thus the cause of action
fails against OZ. As Demurring Defendants note, Plaintiff has not alleged how
Croitoru has breached the Parent AOAs. Alleging Croitoru entered into the
Parent AOAs “in exchange for either personally funding or securing funding to
relieve Plaintiff of his personal liabilities in FMB” is not equivalent to a
breach of the Parent AOAs themselves. (See FAC, ¶ 65.) The undisputed
factual distinction between OZ and Croitoru regarding OZ’s status as a
non-party to the Parent AOA’s leads the Court to conclude that while Plaintiff
is entitled to another opportunity to amend his breach of contract action
regarding Croitoru and the Parent AOAs, it is not entitled to the same
opportunity as to OZ and the Parent AOAs. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Demurring
Defendants demurrer as to the first cause of action for breach of the Parent
AOAs WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to OZ.
Plaintiff is also not a party to the
Investment Agreement, which Plaintiff appears to acknowledge in his Opposition
by arguing his standing to enforce the contract only as a third-party
beneficiary. But, assuming arguendo Plaintiff’s third-party beneficiary status,
Plaintiff has still failed to allege how Demurring Defendants breached
the Investment Agreement in any way, much less how Plaintiff was damaged by
such breach. In contrast to Plaintiff’s allegations that “Croitoru executed a
Membership Interest Investment Agreement to supply this $100 million to the FMB
Entities in exchange for a 25% equity stake (the ‘Investment Agreement’),” the
Investment Agreement itself refers to Demurring Defendants’ $100 million
investment in the past tense only. (FAC, ¶ 50, Ex. E, Recitals(C) and
2(a) (“Investor made”, “following the Investor investing Hundred Million
Dollars”, “The Company hereby agrees to and does irrevocably sell….25% of the
shares in the Company, in exchange for concession to defer the principal
payment date”).) Facts appearing in an exhibit attached to a complaint are
given precedence over inconsistent allegations in the complaint. (See Moran
v. Prime Healthcare Mgmt., Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1145-1146.) Thus,
as currently pleaded, Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action alleging
the Demurring Defendants’ breach the Investment Agreement fails to state a
claim upon which relief can be granted. And although the Court remains
skeptical Plaintiff can cure the defect in light of language in the Investment
Agreement quoted above, the Court will give Plaintiff an opportunity to amend
the cause of action as to this theory. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS
Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
breach of contract with respect to the Investment Agreement WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
as to both Demurring Defendants.
2.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Fraud or
Misrepresentation Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance,
and (5) resulting damage.” (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45
Cal. 4th 1244, 1255.) 
“[F]raud
must be specifically pleaded. This means: (1) general pleading of the legal
conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the
policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.” (Wilhelm v.
Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) In
addition, a cause of action of fraud against a corporation requires a plaintiff
to allege the names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when. (See Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157-58.) 
Demurring
Defendants first argue most of the allegations contained in Plaintiff’s second
and third causes of action for fraud and misrepresentation, respectively, are not
fraudulent misrepresentations. (See Demurrer, pg. 7.) “The only
purported representation attributed to Croitoru or OZ LA is that ‘they were
able to and would … Provide $100,000,000.00 in funding to the FMB Entities as
outlined in the Investment Agreement.’” (Id., quoting FAC, ¶ 118.) But
the Investment Agreement, Demurring Defendants argue, makes no such
representations, and Plaintiff does not allege Croitoru or OZ made oral
representations to that effect. (See Demurrer, pg. 7.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff addresses only Demurring Defendants’ false
representations regarding “their intent and ability to provide $100 million in
funding,” arguing these allegations are sufficient to satisfy the elements of
fraud. (Opposition, pg. 5.) 
Plaintiff
falls short of the mark because he has failed to state facts with sufficient
specificity to support either his fraud or misrepresentation causes of action. As
an initial matter, Plaintiff’s second and third causes of action contain many
allegations unrelated to fraud and Plaintiff, by addressing only his
allegations in Opposition that relate to the $100 million in funding, appears
to concede that such allegations are superfluous to support his fraud causes of
action. (See FAC, ¶¶ 76, 123.) Furthermore, as discussed above, the
Investment Agreement contradicts Plaintiff’s allegations that Demurring
Defendants would “provide funding pursuant to the Investment Agreement” and
“[p]rovide $100,000,000.00 in funding to the FMB Entities as outlined in the
Investment Agreement.” (FAC, ¶¶ 76(l), 118(a).) And Plaintiff never
specifically alleges Demurring Defendants promised to provide $100 million in
funding outside of the Investment Agreement, via oral representations or
otherwise. (See FAC.)
The only
other relevant allegations are too general to meet the level of specificity
required to maintain causes of action for fraud and/or misrepresentation. For
example, Plaintiff alleges Defendants collectively (with no specific mention of
Croitoru or OZ) assured “Plaintiff with the same false fraudulent
promise of imminently forthcoming funds” after the execution of the Parent AOAs
and alleges “Pinto, Zaga, Gilinski, OZ and Croitoru…[k]nowingly
misrepresenting, falsely representing, or concealing Pinto, Zaga, Gilinski’s intentions
and/or ability to provide funding pursuant to the agreements described hereinabove[.]”
(FAC, ¶¶ 53, 123(j).) These allegations are not sufficiently specific to state
a cause of action for fraud or misrepresentation.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second and
third causes of action for fraud and misrepresentation, respectively. 
3.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Breach of the Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing or Breach of Fiduciary Duty Cause of Action
Against Demurring Defendants. 
a.            
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
Every contract imposes upon each
party a duty of good
faith
and fair dealing in its performance and its enforcement.” (Hicks v. E.T.
Legg & Associates (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 496, 508.) “[T]he scope of
conduct prohibited by the covenant of good faith is circumscribed by the
purposes and express terms of the contract.” (Id. at 509.) “The covenant
of good faith and fair dealing… exists… to
prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right
to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.” (Guz v.
Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349.) “The covenant is read into
contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to the express contractual covenants,
to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while not
technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other party’s
rights to the benefits of the contract.’” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The
Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244 (quoting Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-32).) The implied covenant “is designed to effectuate
the intentions and reasonable expectations of parties reflected by mutual
promises within the contract.” (Nein v. HostPro, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 833, 852.)¿¿¿ 
Demurring Defendants again argue OZ is not a
party to the Parent AOAs and Plaintiff is not a party to the Investment
Agreement. (See Demurrer, pg. 8.) Demurring Defendants acknowledge
Croitoru is a party to the Parent AOAs but argues Plaintiff’s allegations
create “obligations and benefits not contemplated in those contracts” such as Croitoru’s
obligation to actively participate in the management of the FMB Entities and to
“blindly pump cash into FMB to keep it afloat.” (Id. at 8-9, citing FAC,
¶ 127.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff again argues he is a
third-party beneficiary to the Investment Agreement, this time adding “[t]he
FAC alleges that the parties’ mutual understanding was that Croitoru, through
OZ, would ensure the provision of additional capital to stabilize the FMB
entities. This mutual understanding is demonstrated by Croitoru’s acceptance of
25% equity, suggesting ongoing obligations that transcend a mere deferral of
prior investments.” (See Opposition, pg. 6.) Plaintiff also attempts to
bring OZ under the umbrella of the “agreements” by first alleging OZ is a
“third person who has colluded with a fiduciary,” by next arguing OZ had
“implied obligations arising from conduct”,” and, finally, by arguing OZ’s “liability
under agency and participating doctrines.” (Opposition, pp. 6-7.)
None of Plaintiff’s kitchen sink arguments are
persuasive. First, Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to demonstrate he
is a third-party beneficiary of the Investment Agreement. “[C]ontracting
parties must clearly manifest their intent to benefit the third party. ‘The
fact that [a third party] is incidentally named in the contract, or that the
contract, if carried out according to its terms, would inure to his benefit, is
not sufficient to entitle him to demand its fulfillment. It must appear to have
been the intention of the parties to secure to him personally the
benefit of its provisions.’” (Kalmanovitz v. Bitting (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 311, 314 (original italics, citation omitted).) Determining
third-party beneficiary status requires a Court to examine “the express
provisions of the contract at issue, as well as all of the relevant
circumstances under which the contract was agreed to, in order to determine not
only (1) whether the third party would in fact benefit from the contract,
but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to
provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting a third
party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties. All three elements must be satisfied to permit the
third-party action to go forward.” (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 829-830 (emphasis added).) Third parties “who are only
incidentally or remotely benefitted” by the contract may not enforce it. (Harper
v. Wausau Ins. Co. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087.) Thus, “[t]he fact
that [the third party] is incidentally named in the contract, or that the
contract, if carried out according to its terms, would inure to his benefit, is
not sufficient to entitle him to demand its fulfillment. It must appear to have
been the intention of the parties to secure to him personally the benefit of
its provisions.” (Eastern Aviation Group, Inc. v. Airborne Express, Inc.
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1452 (cleaned up).)
Here, Plaintiff’s
allegations remain in direct contradiction to the terms of the Investment
Agreement and, as discussed above, the terms of the Investment Agreement
control. On its face, the Investment Agreement confers a benefit on Demurring
Defendants and “FMB”: Demurring Defendants receive equity in exchange for delaying
repayment of prior $100 million investments. (FAC, ¶ 50, Ex. E.) Plaintiff may
have received a benefit as a result of the execution of the Investment
Agreement by virtue of his role in the FMB Entities, though the terms of the
Investment Agreement contradict the specific benefit Plaintiff claims he
was to receive, but such a benefit does not appear to be the intention of
the Investment Agreement. Thus, Plaintiff only appears to have incidentally benefitted
from the contract and, according to the law, may not enforce it.
The Court
will not read additional terms into the Investment Agreement, as Plaintiff asks
this Court to do in his Opposition.[3] Plaintiff
is not a party to the Investment Agreement nor is he, as alleged, an intended third-party
beneficiary. Plaintiff therefore cannot allege breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing as to the Investment Agreement, as such a cause
of action first necessities a contract between the parties.  
The Court
also disregards Plaintiff’s other attempts to bootstrap OZ to the Parent AOAs. As
discussed above, since OZ is not a party to the Parent AOAs, Plaintiff cannot
allege OZ has breached those agreements. Thus, Plaintiff’s allegation OZ
breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing as to the Parent AOAs
fails.
The only
remaining agreement on which Plaintiff’s breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing can stand are the Parent AOAs to which only Croitoru is a
party. To that end, Plaintiff alleges Croitoru (and other defendants) were
required to “[a]ctively participate in the management and strategic direction
of the FMB Entities…[c]ontribute time, effort, and resources to support the
growth and operation of the FMB Entities…[and] [p]rovide funding and financial
support as necessary to maintain the financial stability and success of the FMB
Entities.” (FAC, ¶ 127.) Plaintiff also alleges Croitoru (and other defendants)
unfairly interfered with Plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of the
Agreements by “[f]ailing to actively participate in the management and
strategic direction of the FMB Entities as required[; f]ailing to obtain
financing to effectuate the financial restructuring of FMB so as to relieve Plaintiff
of debt personally guaranteed by him[;]…[w]ithholding the necessary funding and
financial support, contrary to their obligations under the Investment Agreement[;
and]… [m]isrepresenting their intentions and abilities to provide support,
thereby undermining the financial stability of the FMB Entities in order to
force Plaintiff to accept detrimental conditions.” (FAC, ¶ 130.)
As an initial
matter, the Court disregards Plaintiff’s allegations as they relate to the
Investment Agreement for the reasons previously stated. As for the remainder,
Plaintiff’s allegations fail to state a cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing as it relates to Croitoru and the
Parent AOAs. Plaintiff twice alleges Croitoru was responsible for and failed to
participate in the management and direction of the FMB Entities, but such
responsibility is specifically assigned to Gilinski and Zaga, not Croitoru. (See,
e.g., FAC, ¶ 50, Ex. F, 4.1.) Unlike Gilinski and Zaga, who were
“primarily… responsible to strategic direction of the company [sic], contribute
or arrange for capital for the operation of the Company and support the company
in any specific task as well as to support the Company’s growth” pursuant to
Section 4.1 of the Parent AOAs, Croitoru had no similarly specific
responsibilities. 
Plaintiff
also alleges Croitoru failed to contribute time and effort into the growth and
operation of the FMB Entities without stating the business demanded more than
what Croitoru did. This omission matters because section 4.1 stated in only the
broadest and most general terms the Members “anticipated that each Member will
be contributing time and effort to the business of the Company consistent
with the demand of the business.” (See id. (emphasis added).) Likewise,
the Parent AOAs do not create an obligation by Croitoru to effectuate financing
to relieve Plaintiff of personal debt nor do they reflect affirmative
representations by Croitoru about his ability to provide support. The Parent
AOAs mandate additional capital contributions, but only once the “Members, by
Unanimous Consent, determine that (a) additional capital is required for
legitimate business purposes of the Company” and, even then, “each Member shall
contribute, or cause to be contributed, to the capital of the Company such
additional sums, in proportion to each Member's Percentage Interest or as
otherwise approved by the Unanimous Consent of the Members.” (See, e.g.,
FAC, ¶ 50, Ex. F, 2.2) 
In short,
Plaintiff’s allegations that Croitoru breached the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing implied in the Parent AOAs are either beyond the scope of the Parent
AOAs, unsupported by additional factual allegations, or directly conflict with
the attached exhibits. “The covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by
law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one contracting party from
unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the
agreement actually made. The covenant thus cannot be endowed with an existence
independent of its contractual underpinnings. It cannot impose substantive
duties or limits on the contracting parties beyond those incorporated in the
specific terms of their agreement.” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350 (original italics, cleaned up).)
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS
Demurring Defendants demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing of the Parent AOAs WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to OZ. However, the
Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing of the Investment
Agreement WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to both Demurring Defendants. 
b.            
Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
Despite only
titling his fourth cause of action as “Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing”, Plaintiff also alleges an entirely separate breach of fiduciary
duty claim in his fourth cause of action. (See FAC, ¶¶ 133-140.) Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges Croitoru and other defendants “breached both the duty of
loyalty and duty to use reasonable care by knowingly conducting the Internal
Contract [not further defined] and by intentionally withholding this
information from Plaintiff.” (FAC, ¶ 134.) Plaintiff also alleges Croitoru and
other defendants breached the duty of loyalty and lists a number of allegations
in support, including but not limited to, “[t]aking Partnership property,
profit, or benefit for their personal benefit, including any tax advantages
and/or tax credits” and engaging “in a pattern of deception and concealment,
notably in their failure to disclose critical information to Plaintiff,
including but not limited to the internal contracts, tax and financial
information, and financial dealings that directly impacted Plaintiff’s
interests and the overall well-being of the FMB Entities.” (FAC, ¶ 136(a), (d).)

To state
a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege a
fiduciary duty, breach of that duty, and damage caused by the breach. (See Charnay
v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.) “[B]efore a person can be
charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act
on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship
which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.” (City of Hope Nat'l Med. Ctr. v. Genentech (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375,
386 (internal quotations omitted).) “[E]xamples of relationships
that impose a fiduciary obligation to act on behalf of and for the benefit of
another are a joint venture, a partnership, or an agency. But, those categories
are merely illustrative of fiduciary relationships in which fiduciary duties
are imposed by law.” (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1339 (internal citation and quotations omitted.)
Demurring
Defendants again argue OZ is not a member of the “FMB Parents” and so owes no
duties to Plaintiff. (See Demurrer, pg. 9.) Demurring Defendants argue
Plaintiff’s list of duty of loyalty allegations are not attributed to any one defendant
and that only two of the listed allegations “could generously be interpreted as
directed at Croitoru: (i) trying to obtain tax advantages (an apparent
reference to investing through OZ LA) and (ii) inducing Plaintiff to enter the
Investment Agreement and Parent AOAs. Neither could possibly constitute a
fiduciary breach by Croitoru, as both pre-date Croitoru’s membership in the FMB
Parents.” (Id.) In any case, Demurring Defendants argue, structuring
investments to seek a tax benefit does not breach the duty of loyalty, and Croitoru
did not owe Plaintiff a duty of loyalty before becoming a member of the FMB
Parents. (See id. at 9-10.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the FAC sufficiently alleges Croitoru owed
Plaintiff fiduciary duties and that OZ and Croitoru were integral to the scheme
to defraud Plaintiff and breach fiduciary duties. (See Opposition, pg. 7.)

The
Court finds Plaintiff has failed to allege a breach of fiduciary duty claim on
behalf of Croitoru and OZ. OZ is not a member of the entities at issue here and
thus owes no duty to Plaintiff as presently pleaded. As to Croitoru, most of
Plaintiff’s listed alleged breaches are not attributed to any individual defendants
and so conclusory that it is unclear who, for example, “used Partnership
information for their personal benefit” or engaged, facilitated, or “otherwise
participated in transactions where they had an adverse interest against the
partnership, including representing parties with interests adverse to the
partnership in transactions[.]” (FAC, ¶ 136.) The remainder of the listed
allegations that could be attributed to Croitoru specifically (Paragraph
136(a), (d), (h), and (j)) all relate to allegations that predate Croitoru’s equity
interest. (See FAC, ¶¶ 39 (discussing alleged attempts to gain tax
advantages and failing to disclose information to Plaintiff), and 50-51
(discussing the alleged $100 million promise and failure to perform).) Thus, if
Plaintiff is going to succeed on his breach of fiduciary duty claim against
Croitoru for any of those actions, he must clarify the basis of Croitoru’s
fiduciary duty to him during that period and how Croitoru breached it.
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty as to both
Croitoru and OZ. 
4.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Breach of
Fiduciary Duty Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
The
Court reincorporates its breach of fiduciary legal standard from the previous
section. 
Here,
Plaintiff again alleges breach of fiduciary duty, but under the “Trust-Fund
Doctrine.” (FAC, ¶ 113.) Plaintiff alleges the “FMB Entities” became insolvent
in or about 2023, that Plaintiff was a creditor of the FMB Entities, and that “Pinto,
Gilinski, Zaga, and Croitoru, as managers and members, immediately owed a fiduciary
duty to the creditors of the FMB Entities, including Plaintiff.” (Id.)
“The
scope of any extra-contractual duty owed by corporate directors to the
insolvent corporation’s creditors is limited in California, consistently with
the trust-fund doctrine, to the avoidance of actions that divert, dissipate,
or unduly risk corporate assets that might otherwise be used to pay creditors
claims.” (Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1041 (emphasis in original).) This duty is a
fiduciary duty. (See id., 178 Cal.App.4th at 1040.)
Demurring
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s FAC is uncertain as to a breach of fiduciary duty
via the Trust-Find Doctrine. (See Demurrer, pg. 10.) “It is impossible
to tell, however, which of these entities was insolvent, whether Plaintiff was
indeed a ‘creditor’ of such entity, and whether Defendants had any
officer/director relationship with such entity.” (Id.) Either way,
Demurring Defendants argue, Plaintiff has not properly alleged Croitoru and
OZ’s breach of fiduciary duty. (See id.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues he has properly plead his fifth cause of action
because he has alleged he was a creditor and the FMB Entities were insolvent. (See
Opposition, pg. 8.)
As
discussed above, Plaintiff has not stated sufficient facts to state a breach of
fiduciary cause of action pursuant to the Trust-Fund Doctrine against the
Demurring Defendants. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty. 
5.            
Plaintiff Fails to State an Open Book
Account Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
A cause
of action for an open book account requires the following: (1) a detailed
statement which constitutes the principal record of one or more transactions
between a debtor and a creditor arising out of a contract or some fiduciary
relation; (2) that shows the debits and credits in connection therewith, and
against whom and in favor of whom entries are made; (3) that was entered in the
regular course of business as conducted by such creditor or fiduciary; (4) that
was kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner; and (5) that was kept in a
bound book, on a sheet or sheets fastened in a book or to backing but
detachable therefrom, on a card or cards of a permanent character, or is kept
in any other reasonably permanent form and manner. (See Code Civ. Proc.
§ 337a; Tsemetzin v. Coast Federal Savings & Loan Assn. (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 1334, 1343.) 
         Plaintiff
has failed to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action for open book
account because he hasn’t alleged any of the necessary elements of an
open book account cause of action, including the most foundational element of
such a cause of action: that Demurring Defendants have a debtor-creditor
relationship with Plaintiff as an individual.  
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for open book account. 
6.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Books and Records
Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
Corporations
Code § 1601 provides: “(a) The accounting books and records and minutes of proceedings
of the shareholders and the board and committees of the board of any domestic
corporation, and of any foreign corporation keeping any such records in this
state or having its principal executive office in this state, shall be open to
inspection upon the written demand on the corporation of any shareholder or
holder of a voting trust certificate at any reasonable time during usual
business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to such holder’s interests as
a shareholder or as the holder of such voting trust certificate. The right of
inspection created by this subdivision shall extend to the records of each
subsidiary of a corporation subject to this subdivision. (b) Such inspection by
a shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate may be made in person or
by agent or attorney, and the right of inspection includes the right to copy
and make extracts. The right of the shareholders to inspect the corporate records
may not be limited by the articles or bylaws.”
Corporations
Code § 1602 reads: “Every director shall have the absolute right at any
reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every
kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation of which such
person is a director and also of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or
foreign. Such inspection by a director may be made in person or by agent or
attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make
extracts. This section applies to a director of any foreign corporation having
its principal executive office in this state or customarily holding meetings of
its board in this state.”
Corporations
Code § 1603 reads in pertinent part: “(a) Upon refusal of a lawful demand for
inspection, the superior court of the proper county, may enforce the right of
inspection with just and proper conditions.”
Here,
Plaintiff alleges “Defendants had control and oversight over the FMB Entities’
financial resources” but deprived “Plaintiff of critical financial and tax
records so that he would be able to prepare his tax returns, resulting in
financial loss and significant liability and tax exposure.” (FAC, ¶ 129.) Thus,
as currently pleaded, the Court construes Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action
to relate only to the “FMB Entities.” But Plaintiff has not named the “FMB
Entities” as defendants and thus cannot demand to inspect the records of the non-party
“FMB Entities” via the named parties in this action, including the Demurring
Defendants.
         Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for books and records of the FMB Entities. 
7.            
Plaintiff Fails to State an Aiding and
Abetting Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
To state
a cause of action for aiding and abetting, a plaintiff must allege the
following: (1) Person aids and abets commission of intentional tort knowing the
other’s conduct constitutes breach of duty; or giving substantial assistance or
encouragement to the other to so act; or in accomplishing a tortious result and
(2) the person’s own conduct, separately considered, constitutes breach of duty
to the third person. (See Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 727, 744.) 
Demurring
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action fails “because it does not
identify which Defendant supposedly aided and abetted which claim, or through
which actions… It alleges no facts of when or how Croitoru and
OZ LA provided substantial assistance to any tort.” (Demurrer, pg. 12.) 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition “the FAC has specifically alleged that Croitoru, through
OZ, entered into agreements that were integral to the Defendants’ scheme to
divert assets and harm Plaintiff’s interests, including the Investment
Agreement where Croitoru failed to provide promised funding, which exposed
Plaintiff to significant liabilities.” (Opposition, pp. 9-10.) 
Plaintiff
has failed to state sufficient facts to state an aiding and abetting cause of
action. As Demurring Defendants highlight, Plaintiff alleges Pinto, Zaga,
Gilinski, Croitoru, OZ, and Mosdot have “substantially assisted, knowingly provided
and encouraged each other in committing the following acts” and again proceeds
to list a series of acts not attributed to any particular Defendant. (FAC, ¶
135.) As such, it is unclear who was committing what intentional tort and how
Croitoru was aiding and abetting the individual committing said tort. Plaintiff
also cannot maintain an aiding and abetting cause of action against OZ, as a
corporation, as OZ is not a “person” who can aid in the commission of an
intentional tort. 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s eighth cause
of action for aiding and abetting WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to OZ.
8.            
Plaintiff Fails to State an Express
Indemnity Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
The
elements of a cause of action for express indemnity are (1) a contract defining
the obligation for one party to make good as to a loss another party incurred
and (2) the occurrence of loss the other party incurred or of some other legal consequence
of conduct of another party. (See Rossmoor
Sanitation, Inc. v. Pylon, Inc. (1975) 13 Cal.3d 622, 628.) “Indemnity is a
contract by which one engages to save another from a legal consequence of the
conduct of one of the parties, or of some other person.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2772.) “A defendant may properly bring a declaratory cross-complaint for
indemnity in the original tort action even though ‘for statute of limitations
purposes, the defendant's indemnity action does not accrue until he has
suffered actual loss through payment.’” (Allen
v. Southland Plumbing (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 60, 65 (citations omitted).)
Plaintiff
has not stated sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach of
express indemnity. There is no indemnity provision in the Parent AOAs and
Plaintiff is not a party to the Investment Agreement, as discussed above. (See
FAC, ¶¶ 50-51, Exs. E-G.) 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for express indemnity.
9.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Conversion Cause
of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
“Conversion is the wrongful
exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion
claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the
property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th
1225, 1240.) 
Demurring Defendants argue OZ never obtained any ownership
interest from Plaintiff and Plaintiff voluntarily transferred his rights in the
FMB Entities. (See Demurrer, pg. 13.) Demurring Defendants also argue “any
claim that such assent was fraudulently induced sounds in fraud and must be
pleaded with particularity.” (Id.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the cause of
action is not alleged against OZ and that any discussion of Plaintiff’s
voluntary assent goes impermissibly beyond the scope of the facts in the
demurrer. (See Opposition, pg. 11.) 
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to
state a cause of action for conversion against Demurring Defendants. As an
initial matter, though Plaintiff does not name OZ in the header of his tenth
cause of action, Plaintiff does, however, name OZ in the substance
of the cause of action. (See FAC, ¶ 147.) OZ, per Plaintiff’s
allegations, did not obtain ownership interest in the FMB Entities and thus
could not have converted any of Plaintiff’s interest.
The Court also finds a discussion of the
voluntary nature of the alleged conversion to be within the four corners of the
FAC. Plaintiff specifically alleges he agreed to a dilution of his
equity (via the expansion of others’ equity), but that his agreement was given
only upon the promise that additional funds would be provided. (See FAC,
¶¶ 51-52.) “[T]he law is well settled that there can be no conversion where an
owner either expressly or impliedly assents to or ratifies the taking, use or
disposition of his property.” (Farrington v. A. Teichert & Son, Inc. (1943)
59 Cal.App.2d 468, 474.) The fact that no additional funds were allegedly
provided does not render Plaintiff’s interest converted but does give rise to
other potential tort claims.
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s tenth cause of
action for conversion WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND as to OZ.
10.         
Plaintiff Fails to State a Quantum Meruit
Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
“Quantum meruit refers to the
well-established principle that ‘the law implies a promise to pay for services
performed under circumstances disclosing that they were not gratuitously
rendered.’” (Children’s Hospital Central Cal. v. Blue Cross of Cal.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1274.) Quantum meruit “applies ‘[w]here one
obtains a benefit which he may not justly retain.... The so-called ‘contract
implied in law’ in reality is not a contract. [Citations.] ‘Quasi-contracts,
unlike true contracts, are not based on the apparent intention of the parties
to undertake the performances in question, nor are they promises. They are
obligations created by law for reasons of justice.’ [Citation.]” (McBride v.
Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 388, fn 6.)¿ 
“To recover on a claim for the reasonable value
of services under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must establish both that
he or she was acting pursuant to either an express or implied request for
services from the defendant and that the services rendered were intended to and
did benefit the defendant.” (Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 782, 794 (internal citation omitted).)
Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action
for quantum meruit against Demurring Defendants because he doesn’t allege he was
acting on a request for services or that he rendered any services whatsoever to
Demurring Defendants. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of
action for quantum meruit.
11.          
Plaintiff Fails to State a Declaratory
Relief Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
A cause of action for declaratory
relief requires the following elements: (1) person interested under a written
instrument or a contract or (2) a declaration of his or her rights or duties
(a) with respect to another or (b) in respect to, in, over or upon property;
and (3) an actual controversy. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1060.)    
Plaintiff
has failed to state a cause of action for declaratory relief. Plaintiff is not
a party to the Investment Agreement and Plaintiff has not properly alleged Croitoru’s
breach of the Parent AOAs, as discussed above. Thus, Plaintiff has not alleged
an actual controversy and cannot maintain his twelfth cause of action as
presently pled. 
Accordingly, the Court
SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s
twelfth cause of action for declaratory relief.
12.         
Plaintiff Fails to State a Specific
Performance Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
To state
a cause of action for specific performance, a plaintiff must allege the
following: (1) Contract breach; (2) inadequacy of a legal remedy; (3) underlying
contract reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (4) existence of a
mutuality of remedies; (5) contractual terms sufficiently definite to know what
it is to enforce; and (6) substantial similarity between requested performance
and promised performance. (See Real Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472; see also Patel v. Liebermensch
(2008) 45 Cal.4th 344, 349 (if contract terms are certain enough, judges carry
into effect ascertainable, reasonable intentions of the parties).)
Plaintiff
has failed to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action for specific
performance as Plaintiff has not properly alleged Demurring Defendant’s breach
of contract. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s thirteenth cause of action for specific
performance.
13.         
Plaintiff Fails to State an Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Interests or Intentional Interference
with Current Business Advantage Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
The elements of a claim for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are: (1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant. (See Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153.) A plaintiff need not allege a defendant intended
to disrupt, but may allege they knew the interference would be substantially
certain. (See San Jose Constr. v. S.B.C.C. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1528,
1544.) A plaintiff must also demonstrate the defendant engaged in an
independently wrongful act. (See id. at p. 1158.) “[A]n act is
independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal
standard.” (Id. at p. 1159.) 
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with a contract are: (1) valid contract between
plaintiff and third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of that; (3) defendant's
intentional acts designed to induce disruption of the relationship; (4) actual
disruption; and (5) resulting damage. (See Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33
Cal.4th 1140, 1148.)
Demurring
Defendants argue OZ is not mentioned in either of Plaintiff’s fourteenth and fifteenth
causes of action. (See Demurrer, pg. 15.) Demurring Defendants argue “Plaintiff
names a handful of entities (for the first time), but provides no context or
information regarding the prospective relationship (or its likelihood of
success)…nor any existing contract or supposed breach…” (Id.) Demurring Defendants
further argue Plaintiff’s allegations fail to mention their knowledge of
Plaintiff’s existing relationships and how failing to provide funding was
directed at disrupting those relationships. (See id.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues his FAC “identifies Plaintiff’s economic
relationships with entities such as PMS Financial, Peak Servicing, Loan
Oak, and RTI Financials” and that “Croitoru, through OZ, was an active
participant in the scheme to undermine Plaintiff’s economic and business
relationships.” (Opposition, pp. 13-14 (emphasis added).)
Plaintiff
has simply failed to state a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage or with a contract against Demurring Defendants. Plaintiff’s
allegations concerning his relationship with the various entities he lists and
Demurring Defendants’ knowledge of his relationship with those entities is far too
attenuated and speculative. Allegations of Demurring Defendants’ participation
in a general scheme to take over the FMB Entities is not enough to show
Demurring Defendants participated in that scheme in order to disrupt
Plaintiff’s specific relationships with PMS Financial, Loan
Oak, RTI Financials, and/or Peak Servicing. Plaintiff seems to
acknowledge the unspecified nature of his allegations in his Opposition, saying
he had a relationship with entities such as PMS Financial, Peak Servicing,
Loan Oak, and RTI Financials. However, that is not sufficient to state a cause
of action for intentional interference with either prospective economic
advantage or contract. Plaintiff must identify which entities he had
relationships with (and the nature of those relationships), that each defendant
knew about those relationships, and how their individual conduct was designed
to disrupt those relationships, did so disrupt them, and that such disruption
damaged him. 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s fourteenth and fifteenth causes of action for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage and with contract.
14.         
Plaintiff Fails to State an Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
“The
elements of the tort for intentional infliction of mental distress are: (1)
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, (3) severe
emotional suffering and (4) actual and proximate causation of emotional
distress.” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,
921.)  
To
satisfy the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, a defendant’s conduct
“‘must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized society.’” (Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 768, 780.)¿“Behavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him
power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.” (McDaniel v.¿Gile¿(1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 363, 372.)¿“Severe emotional distress means
emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no
reasonable person¿in civilized society should be
expected to endure it.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.¿(1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1004.)¿“[T]he plaintiff must allege
with great specificity the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in civilized community.” (Vasquez
v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)¿¿ 
Plaintiff
has failed to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Plaintiff again refers only to Defendants generally, failing to
specify how each Defendant individually contributed to his emotional distress. Plaintiff
alleges “[s]pecific acts of misconduct by Defendants have included, but are not
limited to, threats, intimidation, harassment, and other forms of egregious
conduct” which have in turn led to the loss of Plaintiff’s health insurance and
salary and an increase in Plaintiff’s personal debt. (FAC, ¶¶ 184-185.) Plaintiff
does not describe any other specific instances of Defendants’, or Demurring
Defendants’, alleged intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
The
Court is then left to sift through Plaintiff’s prior 180 disjointedly numbered paragraphs
to find evidence of Croitoru or OZ’s conduct that might be considered
outrageous. As discussed above, the
Investment Agreement does not demonstrate Demurring Defendants owed but failed
to provide additional funding. This cannot be the basis for Plaintiff’s intentional
infliction of emotional distress claim.
Plaintiff does, however, allege “[w]hen Defendants
realized that Plaintiff would not agree to sign the latest documents, Pinto,
Zaga, Gilinski, Croitoru and Menachem Pinto began a campaign of physical and
verbal threats against Plaintiff and his family, putting unrelenting pressure
on Plaintiff for one goal – to force Plaintiff to ultimately sign the November
2023 agreements and relinquish his interest in the FMB Entities and leave.”
(FAC, ¶ 57.) Verbal and physical threats could certainly qualify as outrageous
conduct. But, in his Opposition, Plaintiff completely abandons these
allegations of threats and physical violence. The extreme and outrageous
conduct is based only on “Defendants’ actions—making substantial funding
commitments to induce Plaintiff to reduce his equity and assume personal
liabilities, followed by a deliberate failure to provide the promised funds.”
(Opposition, pg. 14.) General allegations concerning Demurring Defendants’
participation in a scheme to take over the FMB Entities are insufficient to
constitute outrageous conduct.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s sixteenth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
IV.    MOTION TO STRIKE
         A.      Legal
Standard
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id. at § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
B.      The
Motion to Strike Is Granted In Part and Denied In Part.
Demurring Defendants seek to strike all
allegations concerning punitive damages, all references to attorneys’ fees, all
references to damages to the FMB Entities, and all references to emotional
distress for breach of contract. (See Motion.)
As an initial matter, the Court DENIES as moot Demurring
Defendants’ Motion as it pertains to causes of action affected by the Court’s sustaining
the Demurrer in its entirety. More specifically, the Court DENIES as moot the
Motion as to Nos. 1-7 (under Punitive and Exemplary Damages), Nos. 1-3 (under Damages
to the FMB Entities), and No. 1 (under Emotional Distress Damages). 
The Court GRANTS Demurring Defendants’ Motion as
it pertains to Plaintiff’s punitive damages request for his second, third,
fourth, fifth, eighth, tenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth causes of
action. Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice,
fraud, or oppression. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (See Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person
to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (See
id.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of
a material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of
property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (See id.) Conclusory
allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a
conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (See Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) As
discussed in the Court’s analysis of the Demurrer, the Court does not find
Plaintiff’s allegations against Demurring Defendants, as currently alleged,
amount to a showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. 
The Court also GRANTS Demurring Defendants’
Motion as it pertains to Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees request for his first, second,
third, fifth, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, fourteenth, fifteenth, and
sixteenth causes of action. “A party is entitled to an award of¿attorney¿fees¿if there
is a specific authorization therefor by statute or private agreement.” (Beverly Hills Properties v.
Marcolino (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d Supp. 7, 10.) Plaintiff has alleged no basis to recover fees from
Demurring Defendants. Although the Investment Agreement contains an attorneys’
fees provision, Plaintiff is not a party to it. 
The Court also GRANTS Demurring Defendants’
Motion as it pertains to “Page 48, Line 2 (Prayer ¶ 3; Prayer for the First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract): ‘For lost profits and loss of business
damages’ as to Croitoru and OZ LA.” (Motion, No. 4 (under Damages to the FMB
Entities).) Plaintiff is suing in his individual capacity and cannot recover
for damages to the FMB Entities as they are not Plaintiffs or even parties to
the instant action. 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES IN
PART and GRANTS IN PART Demurring Defendants’ Motion in accordance with its
above analysis WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
V.    
CONCLUSION
Based on
the foregoing, the Court rules as follows:
The Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’
demurrer as to the first cause of action for breach of the Parent AOAs WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to OZ. However, the
Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for breach of contract with respect to the Investment Agreement WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to both Demurring Defendants.
The Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second and third causes of
action for fraud and misrepresentation. 
The Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’
demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing of the Parent AOAs WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to
Croitoru but WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to OZ. However, the Court SUSTAINS
Demurring Defendants’ demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing of the Investment
Agreement WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to both Demurring Defendants. 
As to Plaintiff’s additional breach of
fiduciary duty theory contained within his fourth cause of action, the Court SUSTAINS
the Demurring Defendants’ demurrer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to both of them.
The
Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty pursuant to the
Trust-Fund Doctrine. 
The
Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for open book account.
The
Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for books and records of the FMB Entities.
The
Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s eighth cause of
action for aiding and abetting WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to OZ.
The
Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for express indemnity.
The
Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s tenth cause of
action for conversion WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Croitoru but WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND as to OZ.
The Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action
for quantum meruit.
The Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action
for declaratory relief.
The Court
SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s
thirteenth cause of action for specific performance.
The
Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s fourteenth and fifteenth causes of action for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage and contract, respectively.
The
Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s sixteenth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.
Finally, the Court DENIES IN
PART and GRANTS IN PART Demurring Defendants’ Motion to Strike WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Specifically, the Court
GRANTS Demurring Defendants’ Motion as it pertains to Plaintiff’s punitive
damages request for his second, third, fourth, fifth, eighth, tenth,
fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth causes of action. The Court also GRANTS
Demurring Defendants’ Motion as it pertains to Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees
request for his first, second, third, fifth, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh,
fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth causes of action. The Court also GRANTS
Demurring Defendants’ Motion as it pertains to “Page 48, Line 2 (Prayer ¶ 3;
Prayer for the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract): ‘For lost profits
and loss of business damages’ as to Croitoru and OZ LA.” (Motion, No. 4 (under
Damages to the FMB Entities).) 
         IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED: December 3, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


