  Case Number:  23AHCV02988    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ZWICK
  CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
APPA COLORADO LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23AHCV02988
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO EXPUNGE OR REDUCE ZWICK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY’S MECHANIC’S LIEN 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 22, 2024



 
On December 27, 2023, Zwick
Construction Company filed this action against APPA Colorado LLC seeking, in
part, foreclosure of its Mechanic’s Lien (Document No. 20230667741) in the sum
of $7,008,704.52.  On February 13, 2024,
Zwick filed a Notice of Lis Pendens.  On June
18, 2024, APPA filed a first amended cross-complaint against Zwick.
On
October 3, 2024, APPA filed a motion to expunge or reduce Zwick’s mechanic’s
lien.
E-FILING DEFICIENCIES
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, “[e]lectronic
documents must be electronically filed in PDF, text searchable format when
technologically feasible without impairment of the document’s image.” (General
Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶ 6(a).) 
Additionally, the table of contents and all attachments, including
exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General
Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d), (f); California Rules of Court, rule
3.1110(f)(4).)
Zwick’s
filings do not comply with these requirements. 
The documents are not text searchable and do not contain any electronic
bookmarks.
If
any party continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court
may strike the filings or issue sanctions.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
The
Court does not rule on Zwick’s and APPA’s numerous evidentiary objections.  Most of the objected-to material is
irrelevant and immaterial to the Court’s decision.  For the documents that the Court does rely
on, both parties treat the documents as authentic.  (See Evid. Code, § 1414.)
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
APPA’s
request for judicial notice of 19 mechanic’s liens is granted.
DISCUSSION
Zwick
contends that “APPA’s motion is an obvious, subversive attempt at summary
judgment prior to the commencement of any discovery and while the parties are preparing
for private mediation of the entire dispute.” 
(Opposition at p. 1.)  Not
so.  This motion is not dispositive of
any underlying claims in the complaint or amended cross-complaint.
“A
motion to remove a mechanic’s lien is recognized as a device that allows the
property owner to obtain speedy relief from an unjustified lien or a lien of an
unjustified amount without waiting for trial on the action to foreclose the
lien.”  (Howard S. Wright Construction
Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 314, 318 (Howard)
[citing Lambert].)  “Unlike other
motions, the burden is on the party opposing the motion to expunge—i.e., the
claimant-plaintiff—to establish the probable validity of the underlying claim.
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.)  The claimant-plaintiff must establish the
probable validity of the claim by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.)”  (Id. at p. 319, footnote omitted.)  This requires a claimant to establish that
“the labor, services and/or materials were actually used in the construction,
the reasonable value of the work and/or materials, and the date of completion
or cessation of work.”  (Basic Modular
Facilities, Inc. v. Ehsanipour (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1485 (Basic
Modular).)
“The
function of the mechanic’s lien is to secure reimbursement for services and
materials actually contributed to a construction site, not to facilitate
recovery of consequential damages or to provide a claimant with leverage for
imposing the claimant’s view of who caused the breakdown in the contract.”  (Lambert v. Superior Court (1991) 228
Cal.App.3d 383, 389 (Lambert).)[1]
A.        Zwick’s Mechanic’s Lien Exceeds the
Value of the Work and the Agreed Price, and Zwick Does Not Establish the
Probable Validity of Its Claim.
APPA
argues that Zwick’s lien is overstated because multiple amounts were included
contrary to California law.  (Motion at
pp. 8-9.)  A mechanic’s lien may be
recorded for the lesser of the reasonable value of the work provided by the
claimant or the price agreed to by the claimant and the person that contracted
for the work.  (Civ. Code, § 8430, subd.
(a).)  “If there is a rescission,
abandonment, or breach of the contract, the amount of the lien may not exceed
the reasonable value of the work provided by the claimant.”  (Civ. Code, § 8430, subd. (c).)
Zwick’s
September 7, 2023 demand for an adjustment and resolution of $7,008,704.52 (the
amount of the mechanic’s lien) consists of (1) Extended General Conditions; (2)
Owner’s Misuse of Contingency; (3) Owner Rejected Change Orders; (4) Outstanding
Change Orders; and (5) Outstanding Progress & Retention Due.  (Motion, Marzwell Decl. ¶¶ 24, 43 & Ex. I;
Opposition, Dushane Decl. ¶¶ 2-6 & Ex. A.)
Zwick’s
Vice President and Director of Risk Management explains, “Each general
condition comprising the EGC [Extended General Conditions] category of ZWICK’s
lien was an actually incurred cost to ZWICK over the course of many months of
delay for which ZWICK contends it is not responsible, including, among the most
prominent: Salaries/costs for Project Executive, Project Managers, Assistant
Project Manager, Project Engineer, Administrative Assistant, Superintendents,
Assistant Superintendents, Laborers, Vehicles, field trailers, Temporary
lodging, site office and computers/furniture
leasing/equipment/materials/supplies, and insurance.”  (Opposition, Dushane Decl. ¶ 5.)  He also states that Zwick “told APP A on
multiple occasions that if it would provide verification of its direct payments
to select subcontractor claimants, ZWICK would be willing and able to promptly
reduce the amount of its lien accordingly because those amounts paid by APPA
directly to ZWICK’s subcontractors would reduce ZWICK’s obligation to those
subcontractors, and its right to recover from APPA for those amounts.”  (Opposition, Dushane Decl. ¶ 8.)  
Zwick
argues that it is able to recover the Extended General Conditions amounts
because they are costs expressly provided for in the parties’ underlying
contract dated February 13, 2020. 
(Opposition at p. 11.)  The
contract specifies that “[t]he Guaranteed Maximum Price includes a General
Conditions line item in the amount of $2,406,134, which shall be a fixed,
maximum cost not eligible for adjustment for any reason (the ‘General
Conditions Costs’),” which may be increased “[i]n the event of any delays caused
by [APPA].”  (Motion, Marzwell Decl., Ex.
A at p. 7, §§ 5.2.1.1-5.2.1.1.)
However,
Zwick’s demand for $2,707,710.68 in Extended General Conditions for alleged
overhead costs for delay was released by Zwick under the parties’ July 20, 2022
mutually executed PCCOR #128/Change Order #25 (“CO25”).  (Motion, Marzwell Decl. ¶¶ 7, 36 & Ex.
B.)  CO25 “captures the final settlement
and compromise between Contractor and Owner for the Pending Change Order
Claims, the Time Impact Claims, all claims for increases to the Contract Sum or
the Contract Time on account of delays or changes in the Work arising due to
events occurring before or in existence as of the date of this CO, all claims
for increases to the Contract Sum or Contract Time due to missed or implied
scope, all claims for increases to the Contract Sum or Contract Time on account
of changes to the Work after the date of this CO (excluding Owner/Architect
directed changes in scope), all claims for additional General Conditions Costs
through final completion of the Work, and all other claims that Contractor may
have against the Owner arising out of the Project,” including a waiver of the
provisions of Civil Code section 1542. 
(Motion, Marzwell Decl., Ex. B at p. 1.)
The
settlement excluded the remaining balance of the Contract Sum in the amount of
$3,857,663.51.  (Motion, Marzwell Decl.,
Ex. B at p. 1.)  After CO25, “[t]here
shall be no adjustment of the Guaranteed Maximum Price for any reason unless
the Owner adds new scope never communicated to Contractor prior to the date of
this CO.”  (Motion, Marzwell Decl., Ex. B
at p. 2, ¶ 9; see Marzwell Decl. ¶ 7(e); see also Reply at p. 3.)
Zwick
(as the lien claimant) has the burden of establishing the validity of the lien.  (Basic Modular, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1485.)  It has not done so here.  Zwick’s lien of $7,008,704.52 exceeds the
reasonable value of the work and the price agreed to by the parties.
B.        The Court Reduces the Lien to
$784,545.57.
APPA
asks that the Court determine that Zwick’s lien amount is forfeited in its
entirety because it willfully included improper items and amounts.  (Motion at p. 9; Reply at p. 10.)  Zwick argues that the lien should not be
stricken because there was no intent to defraud.  (Opposition at pp. 12-13.)
APPA
relies on subdivision (c) of Civil Code section 8422, which provides for
forfeiture of a lien when a claimant “willfully include[s] in a claim of lien
labor, services, equipment, or materials not furnished for the property.”  APPA argues that Zwick’s inclusion of amounts
for work performed by other subcontractors is “the very definition of a ‘willful’
inclusion.”  (Reply at p. 10.)
When
reading subdivision (c) in the full context of section 8422, the Court
disagrees with APPA.  Erroneous
information relating to the claimant’s demand, credits and offsets deducted,
the work provided, or the description of the site does not invalidate the lien,
“[e]xcept as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c).”  (Civ. Code, § 8422, subd. (a).)  Subdivision (b) states that erroneous
information does invalidate the lien if the claim of lien was made with intent
to defraud or an innocent third party without notice became the bona fide owner
of the property after recordation of the claim of lien.  Subdivision (c) states that a claimant who
willfully includes labor, services, equipment, or materials not furnished for
the property will forfeit the lien.  The
Court sees no meaningful difference in subdivision (b)’s use of “invalidates
the claim of lien” and subdivision (c)’s use of “forfeit the person’s lien,”
and thus concludes that invalidation and forfeiture are both subject to a
finding of fraud.  This is supported by
the historic application of prior versions of the statute and the Court’s
ability to reduce (rather than fully invalidate) lien amounts.  (See, e.g., B. & J. Const. Co. v.
Spacious Homes, Inc. (1962) 204 Cal.App.2d 216, 221 [“a finding that
plaintiff willfully failed to give proper credits, or that it willfully charged
too high a price, is not a finding of fraud” under former Civil Code section 1193.1];
Basic Modular, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1485.)
Zwick
did “willfully” include each category and amount claimed in its lien.  However, the Court see no evidence of an
intent to defraud, particularly when Zwick has offered to reduce the amount of
its lien by the amounts that APPA can prove that it paid the
subcontractors.  (Opposition at pp. 6-7;
see Zwick Decl. ¶¶ 3-6; Dushane Decl. ¶ 8.) 
Accordingly, the Court will not order Zwick’s entire lien forfeited.
In
the alternative to a full forfeiture, APPA asks that the lien be reduced to no
greater than $784,545.57, “which—if ignoring the millions in Contract-related
damages Zwick owes APPA—represents the ceiling remaining Contract amount
available for Zwick to pay what its subcontractors are owed.”  (Motion at p. 16.)  The Court may reduce an excessive lien to its
proper amount instead of fully removing the lien.  (Basic Modular, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1485.)  The actual amount due on the
lien presents a question of fact for the Court. 
(Ibid.)
Zwick
does not provide evidence supporting each item claimed, but APPA does provide
evidence of its claimed deductions from the full $7,008,704.52 lien amount.  The Court therefore adopts APPA’s calculation
for the maximum lien amount of $784,545.57.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to expunge or reduce Zwick’s mechanic’s lien is GRANTED IN PART.
The
Court orders Zwick’s Mechanic’s Lien, Document No. 20230667741, reduced to $784,545.57.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the
tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a
companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on
calendar.
 
        
Dated this 22nd day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


