  Case Number:  23AHCV00064    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT1.
Background FactsThis case follows the filing of an
unlawful detainer 22PDU03151 arising from a landlord-tenant dispute at 770
Adobe Pl., Monterey Park, CA. On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff George Beltran
(“Plaintiff”), in pro per, filed this action against Defendant Jaye Uribe
(“Defendant”) for a preliminary injunction for discriminatory practices, breach
of fiduciary duties, and declaratory relief. On September 15, 2023, default was
entered against Defendant.  In December
2023, the Court held a Default-Prove Up Hearing and took the matter under
submission. On February 26, 2024, the Court issued its ruling on submitted
matter in which it denied entry of default judgment without prejudice and
granted Plaintiff 30 days’ leave to file a First Amended Complaint clarifying
his specific causes of action.  Specifically,
the Court held that Plaintiff’s complaint did not fairly place Defendant on
notice of the nature of the claims against him and the Court cannot allow a
plaintiff to prove different claims or damages at the hearing than those
pleaded in the complaint. (2/26/24 Minute Order.)  The Court found it was unable to grant
Plaintiff the relief he sought based on the complaint as worded given it lacked
the factual allegations for a breach of contract claim against Defendant and
lacked causes of action relating to housing discrimination, retaliatory
termination, due process violations, and claims for injunctive relief sought by
Plaintiff in default judgment. On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant using the Judicial Council Form
Pleading Complaint form for Personal Injury actions, PLD-PI-001.  In the FAC, Plaintiff asserts a cause of
action for breach of contract and asserts that a cause of action for
Intentional Tort is attached; however, the Intentional Tort Form Pleading cause
of action is not attached. (FAC, caption, Item No. 10.) In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges he has suffered wage loss, loss of use of property, general damage,
property damage, and has been subjected to harassment, retaliation, and a
breach of a housing rental contract. (FAC, Item No. 11.)  In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that the
attached motion sets forth the three causes of action and explains the grounds
for seeking damages from Defendant. (FAC, Item No. 15.) This 52-page filing
constituting the FAC includes: (1) the Judicial Council Personal Injury Form
Complaint; (2) the February 26, 2024 Minute Order [Exh. A1]; (3) the General
Relief Housing Subsidy and Case Management Program Agreement between Plaintiff
(as Tenant) and Defendant (as landlord) [Exh. A2]; (4) Plaintiff’s Utilities
Application [Exh. C]; (5) Civil Code §1953 [Exh. D]; (5) Summons (undated); (6)
a copy of the initial Form Pleading; (7) Civil Case Cover Sheet; and (8) a copy
of Plaintiff’s Motion to File FAC which itself includes Exhibits A1, A2, C, and
D as attachments  asserting actions for
breach of contract and intentional tort arising from the improper termination
of Plaintiff’s Los Angeles County’s General Relief Opportunities for Work (“GROW”)
rental assistance benefits and $1,600 paid for water service. (FAC, Exh. A1.) At
the time Plaintiff filed his FAC, he also filed a motion for leave to file the FAC
in which he asserts he seeks to set forth additional causes of action for
abridgment of the housing rental contract, retaliation, and harassment and
discrimination, following Plaintiff’s answer to the unlawful detainer. Defendant
is in default status and has filed no opposition to this motion. 2.
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant
part:  “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” “This discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (See California Casualty
General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on
other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 390.)Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. Even if a good amendment is proposed in
proper form, a long, unwarranted, and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a
good reason for denial.  In most cases,
the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts
or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the
delay on the adverse party.  If the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)In this case, Plaintiff’s motion to amend
the complaint includes a copy of the amended pleading, properly labeled as
Amendment Number 1. However, Plaintiff does not state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located. Nor does
Plaintiff state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located, as such, CRC Rule 3.1324(a) is not
fulfilled by the filed FAC. Per
CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration has been filed with the motion.  A separate declaration has been filed with the
motion, but it does not contain any statements regarding (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to amend is denied.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  June
21, 2024 




 


 




 


JUDGE JARED
  MOSES
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



