 Case Number:  23AHCV01895    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER SUSTAINING THE DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, DENYING THE REQUEST FOR DISMISSAL WITH PREJUDICE, AND DENYING
THE MOTION TO STRIKE AS MOOT                         
I.         
INTRODUCTION
On
August 21, 2023, Plaintiff Valarie B. Phillips (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Rusnak / Pasadena DBA (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50 for a
dispute arising from repairs to Plaintiff’s car. 
On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of
contract, (3) general negligence; (4) and three counts of fraud. 
On
February 9, 2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s FAC in its entirety
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 430.10 (e), (f) and concurrently filed a
motion to strike Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. 
          On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
demurrer and motion to strike as a single filing.
          On June 16, 2024, Defendant filed replies to Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion to strike and demurrer, requesting dismissal with
prejudice.
 
                      
II.         
DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER
A.   Procedural Requirement
Before
filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a).)   
Defendant
attempted to meet and confer on January 29, 2024. (Garcia Decl., ¶¶ 3-5; Exh.
A.) The Court finds Defendant’s attempts to meet and confer are sufficient for
purposes of the instant motion. 
B.    Legal Standard
Code
Civ. Proc. §430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a complaint
fails to state a cause of action.
A
demurrer admits, provisionally for purposes of testing the pleading, all
material facts properly pleaded. Tindell
v. Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1247.
A
demurrer is treated as “admitting all material facts properly pleaded,” but not
the truth of “contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 966-967.
The
general rule on demurrer is that the pleadings are “deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be.” Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.4th 593, 604.
Questions
of plaintiff’s ability to prove unlikely allegations are of no concern. Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 213-214.
A
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.  A plaintiff’s allegations must be
accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable” they are.
Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del
E. Webb). Allegations need not be accepted as true if they are contradicted
by judicially noticeable facts. Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474. 
Pleadings
are to be broadly construed (Code Civ. Proc. §452) and demurrers are to be
overruled where the facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. Quelimane
Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.
Judicial
notice may be taken of a plaintiff’s unequivocal discovery responses based on
his or her knowledge, even if they contradict the complaint. Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 83 (Bockrath). 
“The
court will take judicial notice of records such as admissions, answers to
interrogatories, affidavits, and the like, when considering a demurrer, only
where they contain statements of the plaintiff or his agent which are
inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before the court.” Del E. Webb at 605.
A
demurrer challenges defects appearing on the face of the complaint or in
judicially noticeable material but cannot be based on evidence. “Speaking
demurrers” are not permitted. Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), §7.8.
Code
Civ. Proc. §430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain.
Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible
a defendant cannot reasonably respond. A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.
  C.   ANALYSIS
1.     As
to the Entire Complaint: Uncertainty
Defendant
demurs to the entirety of Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that the
pleading is uncertain. (Notice of Demurrer, pp. 3-4; C.C.P. §430.10 (f).) More
particularly, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s allegation of breach of
contract is uncertain as the complaint lacks facts to support that a contract
existed between the parties. (Notice of Demurrer, pp. 3-4.) In opposition,
Plaintiff responds to the uncertainty argument by citing that as an automotive
business in California, Defendant must perform pursuant to the California
Business and Professional Code. (Opp’n, p. 2.)
Demurrers for uncertainty are strictly construed,
because discovery can be used for clarification and apply where defendants
cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated.  (Khoury
v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Weil & Brown,
Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2021) ¶¶7:85-7:86.)  
As alleged, the causes of actions are uncertain
because the series of factual events giving rise to this complaint are
ambiguously stated. Particularly, Plaintiff has not alleged facts leading to a
reasonable determination of the relationship between herself and Defendant, nor
how the car repairs went awry, what legal issues are implicated with these
facts and what counts or claims are raised against Defendant. The deficiency in
the facts leave the court with doubts as to what Plaintiff intends to allege
against Defendant. 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
entire FAC is sustained with leave to amend. 
2.     First
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
“The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of
a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
A
fiduciary duty is founded upon a special relationship imposed by law or when
“confidence is reposed by persons in the integrity of others,” who
voluntarily accept the confidence.  (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd.
v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150; see CACI
4100, et seq.) “‘[B]efore a
person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly
undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a
relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.’” (City of Hope Nat’l Med. Ctr. v. Genentech
(2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.) 
“[B]ecause
of ‘[t]he vagueness of the common law definition of the confidential relation
that gives rise to a fiduciary duty, and the range of the relationships that
can potentially be characterized as fiduciary,’ the ‘essential elements’ have
been distilled as follows: ‘1) The vulnerability of one party to the other
which 2) results in the empowerment of the stronger party by the weaker which
3) empowerment has been solicited or accepted by the stronger party and 4)
prevents the weaker party from effectively protecting itself.’ (Richelle L. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 257, 272 (“Richelle”).)  In short, vulnerability ‘is the necessary
predicate of a confidential relation,’ and ‘the law treats [it] as “absolutely
essential”’…” (Persson v. Smart
Inventions (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1161.)
The
breach of fiduciary duty cause of action is based on the following allegations:
(1) Defendant owed a fiduciary duty of due care and loyalty to California
Consumers including Plaintiff; (2) Defendant breached this duty by: (a) failing
to ensure that standards for service were met (b) violating the Truth in
Advertising section 43(a) of the Lanham Act; (c) submitting false reports  to the California Bureau of Automotive
Repair; (d) failing to comply with regulatory requirements set forth by the
California Bureau of Automotive Repair; and (d) failing to comply with Volvo
diagnostic performance tests; and (3) as a result of the breaches, Plaintiff
has suffered an unspecified amount of damages and requests economic damages and
the removal of current officers and licensure penalties to Defendant. (FAC ¶¶
1-4, 8-10.)  The Court notes Plaintiff
also asserts the breach of fiduciary duty cause of action against DOE
Defendants 1-5, the alleged officers, owners, and operators of Defendant based
on the duty of due care and loyalty owed to California Consumers and “Volvo
corporate shareholders.”  (FAC ¶9.) 
Plaintiff
has not alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty against Defendant. 
Plaintiff has not alleged facts supporting the existence of a fiduciary
duty between herself and Defendant.  The
alleged fiduciary duty is based on a general duty of care owed by Defendant to
California Consumers, but Plaintiff does not allege how this qualifies as a
fiduciary relationship for purposes of the instant cause of action.  Plaintiff has not alleged facts supporting
her conclusory assertion that Defendant breached any such duty.  Notably, there are no allegations as to what
acts or omissions by Defendant with respect to Plaintiff amounted to a breach,
when those acts occurred.  Conclusory
allegations are insufficient. Finally, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged the
resulting damages. Plaintiff failed to articulate a particular act or omission
constituting a breach of fiduciary duty. 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty is sustained, with leave to amend.
 3.     Second
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
To state
a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.)
If a
breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the
terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the
written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v.
Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some
circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract
rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc.
v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
Plaintiff’s
breach of contract is based on the following allegations: (1) the parties
entered an agreement based on their behavior, under the California Bureau of
Automotive Repair guidelines, when a vehicle is unaccompanied by its owner and
towed for repair, the automotive repair shop must inspect and provide an
estimated work order; (2) Plaintiff provided her unaccompanied vehicle to be
towed; and (3) Defendant breached its duty by failing to: (a) keep Plaintiff
informed of estimates and invoices, (b) only repair as authorized by Plaintiff,
(c) maintain records of services performed and parts supplied, and (4) as a
result, Plaintiff argues she suffered damages exceeding $30,000.00. (FAC ¶¶
12-14.)
Defendant
demurs to the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff has not alleged whether an oral
contract was created, nor has the Plaintiff included a copy of the alleged
contract, or a verbatim statement of its terms. (Demurrer, pp. 6-7.) 
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient
facts to state a breach of contract cause of action against Defendant.
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged the existence of the contract, nor has
Plaintiff sufficiently stated the relevant terms of the implied contract
between Plaintiff and Defendant.  
Plaintiff has also not sufficiently
alleged her performance or an excuse for non-performance under said contract.
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges she performed her obligations under the contract by
providing her unaccompanied vehicle for towing. The basis of Plaintiff’s breach
claim is only that Defendant breached the contract by failing to timely inform
her of repairs needed to the car, but the facts are insufficiently pled as they
do not provide any notice of the expected time reserved for the repairs.  
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action for breach
of contract is sustained, with leave to amend.
 4.     Third
Cause of Action: General Negligence
The
elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of
care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  
Defendant
demurs on the third cause of action for negligence on the grounds that
Plaintiff fails to allege the acts or omissions that constitute negligence.
(Demurrer, p. 7; C.C.P. § 430.10(e).) The facts contained in the FAC are
unclear in determining how Defendant proximately caused Plaintiff’s injuries.
Therefore, Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled a cause of action for
negligence. The complaint alleges in relevant part that an ordinary duty of
care arose when Defendant “voluntary undertook” Plaintiff’s car for inspection
of repairs. (FAC, ¶ 16.) However, Plaintiff fails to plead any facts as to how
this undertaking began or how the need for repairs arose. A licensed automobile
repair shop “shall not commit negligence in the maintenance of and/or repairs
to a motor vehicle”; where “negligence” means deviating from an ordinary
standard of care that could foreseeably result in injury or harm to a consumer,
personal property, or the public or as a result of repairing the motor vehicle.
(C.C.R. §335.1.)   Plaintiff argues that the ordinary duty of care was greatly
deviated from when Defendant held Plaintiff’s car for over a year without
attempting to obtain consent for inspection and diagnosis or providing an
estimate of work. (FAC, ¶ 16.) However, Plaintiff does not allege any facts as
to whether the car remained in the Defendant’s possession during that time, or
what Plaintiff means by the car being “held” by Defendant. Next, Plaintiff
alleges that the failure to provide a timely diagnosis “resulted in Plaintiff
harm” leading to compensatory tangible and intangible and punitive damages
exceeding $30,000.00. (Id.) At the crux of Plaintiff’s allegations are
that Defendant never provided an estimate for the inspection and cost of
repairs. However, Plaintiff also does not provide any facts to support the
damages requested.
Defendant
argues that as pled, the FAC leaves them unable to determine the counts or
claims directed against them because Plaintiff only states that the inspection
was not conducted according to “accepted practices”, without expounding on said
practices and the harm this omission caused. (Reply, p. 5; Khoury v. Maly's
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL
Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) In the FAC,
Plaintiff makes general allegations about Defendant not responding in a timely
manner, or conducting the inspection and repairs according to standard
practices. 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action for negligence is sustained,
with leave to amend.
5.
Fourth Cause of Action: Fraud
“The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation,
the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
Plaintiff’s
fraud cause of action is based on three counts of the following allegations:
(1) Plaintiff relied on the advice of Defendant, who held themselves out as an
authorized and licensed Volvo repair dealership, to have her unaccompanied
vehicle towed to Defendant’s site of repair and inspection; (2) Plaintiff was
notified that her car was ready for pick up on February 20, 2023 and Defendant
refused to provide an itemized invoice for the repairs, later reporting to the
California State Bureau of Automotive that there no repairs were done to the
car on August 15, 2023, (b) Defendant concealed facts from Plaintiff by not
requesting authorization to make repairs, as legally required; (c) Defendant
promised to inspect the vehicle and make necessary repairs without the intent
to perform; (2) Defendant knew the repairs were not complete because the
inspections were complete on or about August 11, 2023, following Plaintiff’s
intent to mitigate due to lack of response from Defendants; (3) Plaintiff was
induced to schedule an appointment for a home inspection of the car, to which
the service manager did not appear, and required her to contact Defendant to
tow the car to their service location for inspection and repair; and (4)
Plaintiff’s damage resulted in loss of wages, tow expenses incurred and the
loss of use for the vehicle.  (FAC, ¶¶
20-32.)
Plaintiff
has not alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action for fraud.
Plaintiff raises several grounds for misrepresentation such as intentional or
negligent misrepresentation, concealment and promise without intent to perform,
but does not provide sufficiently specific facts in support of each. Moreover,
each element as to fraud pled by Plaintiff is not factually and specifically
stated. The complaint is unclear as to the sequence of factual events to show
Defendant’s possession of the car during the required repairs, the need to tow
the vehicle and disclosures made to the automotive bureau. 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action for fraud is sustained, with
leave to amend.
 
                   
III.         
MOTION
TO STRIKE
In
light of the Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer with leave to amend, the
motion to strike is moot. 
 
                   
IV.         
ORDER
Defendant’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to all causes of action. Plaintiff
has 20 days to file an amended complaint. 
Defendant’s Request for Dismissal with Prejudice is Denied. Defendant to
give notice. 
 
          
 
Dated June 21, 2024                                                  
                                                                                  JARED
D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT