 Case Number:  23BBCV00456    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
max barchichat,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
smart &
  final stores llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV00456
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to file first amended complaint 
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

On February 27,
2023, Plaintiff Max Barchichat (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for: (1)
premises liability/negligence; (2) premises liability/strict liability; and (3)
premises liability/breach of warranty.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants Smart & Final Stores LLC, Smart & Final LLC,
Smart & Final East Hollywood LLC, Realty Income Properties 14 LLC, and
Realty Income Corporation (“Defendants”) were the owners, operators, lessors,
lessees, landlords, managers, supervisors, inspectors, custodians, and
repairers of the real property, including the paved parking lot, located at
6601 Laurel Canyon Boulevard in North Hollywood.  Plaintiff alleges that on March 13, 2021, the
concrete stop block for one of the parking spaces at the premises created a
tripping hazard, which caused Plaintiff to trip and fall and suffer
injuries.  
On July 24,
2023, The Estate of Max Barchichat filed a Notification of Death of Plaintiff,
stating that Plaintiff died on March 9, 2023. 

B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On September 14,
2023, the Estate of Max Barchichat, by and through Monqioue Golog, executor of
the Estate, filed a motion for leave to file the first amended complaint.  On September 15, 2023, the Estate filed
another motion for leave to file the FAC. 
The Court will consider the later filed motion as the operative motion papers.   
The Court is not
in receipt of an opposition brief. 
The Court will
hereinafter refer to Max Barchichat as “Decedent” and the Estate of Max
Barchichat, by and through Monique Golog, executor of the Estate as “the
Estate.” 
LEGAL STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
            CRC
rule 3.1324 requires a motion seeking leave to amend to include a copy of the
proposed pleadings, to identify the amendments, and to be accompanied by a
declaration including the following facts:
            1) The effect of the amendment;
            2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; 
            3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and 
            4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
The Court’s discretion regarding granting
leave to amend is usually exercised liberally to permit amendment of
pleadings.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)  If a motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
DISCUSSION
            The
Estate moves for leave to file the first amended complaint (“FAC”).  The FAC, lodged with the Court on September
15, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) wrongful death (premises
liability); (2) wrongful death (general negligence); (3) wrongful death
(products liability/strict liability; (4) wrongful death (products
liability/breach of warranty); (5) survival action; (6) breach of contract; (7)
NIED; and (8) IIED.  
            In
support of the motion, the Estate provides the declaration of David A. Azran,
counsel for Plaintiff.  Mr. Azran states
the motion was filed for the purpose of addressing the fact that Decedent has
passed away since the filing of the action. 
(Azran Decl., ¶3.)  He states that
the effect of the amendment is to include causes of action for wrongful death,
survival action, breach of contract, NIED, and IIED, seeking special, general,
compensatory, actual, consequential, and punitive damages against the named
Defendants, as well as to include the Estate in the survival action and
Decedent’s heirs (Monique Golob, Emile Barchichat, Linda Maher, and Deborah
Canon) for the wrongful death claims.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that the amendments
are necessary and proper because with the recent passing of Decedent,
substantial compensation, reimbursements, and rights are due to these
plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶¶5, 11.)  He states that the facts were discovered for
the proposed amendments recently after Decedent’s passing.  (Id.)  Mr.
Azran states that the breach of contract, NIED, and IIED claims arise from
Plaintiffs’ contentions that on March 13, 2023, a settlement of the Estate’s claim
against Defendant was reached, effectively resolving this action, but Defendant
has been stonewalling payment on the settlement monies.  (Id., ¶6.) 
Mr. Azran provides the facts and circumstances giving rise to these
causes of action in paragraph 9(a) to (k). 
He states that the proposed amendments would make changes as described
in paragraph 10(a) to (h).  Counsel
states that no new parties are being added to the action and that the FAC would
not unduly prejudice Defendant, as the proposed amendments are based on the same
facts, transactions, and occurrences in the original complaint.  (Id., ¶12.) 
  
            Based on the moving papers, the
Court grants the Estate’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint.  Mr. Azran’s declaration addresses the factors
under CRC Rule 3.1324.  Further, the
motion is not opposed.  In addition, the
Court recognizes the liberal policy in allowing amendment.  “[T]he court's discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.  The policy favoring amendment is so strong
that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
The Estate of Max
Barchichat, by and through Monique Golog, executor of the Estate’s motion for
leave to file the first amended complaint is granted.  The Estate is ordered to electronically
file a separate version of the First Amended Complaint with the Court by this
date following the hearing on the matter. 

The Estate shall give notice of
this order.  
            Warning
regarding electronic appearances:
 All software for remote or
electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and
human error, which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating
each morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance
software is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may
impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a
particular case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom
staff. For example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic
purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not
aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the
fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing
their best to use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be
heard, please show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free
or reasonable in Burbank.
 