 Case Number:  23BBCP00026    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
ZIRI RIDEAUX,
et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
PACIFICA
  FOUNDATION INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCVP00026
    
Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to be relieved as counsel   



 
Defense counsel, Matthew B. Learned of For
Purpose Law Group (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Pacifica
Foundation, Inc. (“Defendant”).  
Counsel filed this instant motion to be
relieved as counsel on September 12, 2023.  Counsel has filed the requisite MC-051 and
MC-052 forms pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362. 
However, Counsel has not lodged an MC-053 proposed order form.  
According to the declaration of Counsel,
Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel because Defendant has not voluntarily
consented to Counsel’s request to be relieved. 
Counsel states that there is a breakdown of the working relationship
with Defendant.  (MC-052, §2.)  For these reasons, Counsel seeks to withdraw
from representing Defendant in this action. 

Counsel properly served Defendant at its last
known mailing address, which was confirmed by Defendant’s website and by reviewing
its Statement of Information filed with the Secretary of State on June 6, 2023,
within the past 30 days of filing the motion.  Plaintiff’s counsel was also served with the
motion by electronic service. 
As for future hearing dates, the Final
Status Conference is set for April 4, 2024 and the Trial is set for April 15, 2024.
 Thus, there is sufficient time for Defendant
Pacifica Foundation, Inc. to obtain substitute counsel. 
Accordingly, the motion to be relieved as
counsel is granted.  Counsel is ordered
to electronically lodge with the Court an MC-053 proposed order form that has
been properly filled out with the requisite information.  The Court will review and sign the proposed
order form.  The order will become
effective upon the filing of proof of service of a signed copy of the order on Defendant.In addition, as Defendant Pacifica
Foundation, Inc. is a corporate entity, it cannot represent itself in propria persona.  (See Rogers v. Municipal Court (1988)
197 Cal.App.3d 1314, 1318.)  Thus, the
Court will set an Order to Show Cause re Status of Representation of Defendant
Pacifica Foundation, Inc. for December 6, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.'Notice to be provided by Counsel.************MC-053 rejected on 10/24/23 because #6 was not completed-no phone number included.
 
 
 
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
