 Case Number:  23GDCV01804    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
antonio mendez, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  23GDCV01804
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to transfer venue
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff Antonio
Mendez (“Gutierrez”) alleges that he purchased a 2021 Ford Explorer on October
13, 2021.  He alleges that the causes of
action arise out of warranty and repair obligations of Defendant Ford Motor
Company (“Ford”).  Plaintiff alleges that
at the time the vehicle was delivered to him, it had serious defects and nonconformities
to the warranty including, but not limited to, electrical and structural system
defects.  Plaintiff alleges that he
presented the vehicle for repairs to Defendant DWWVF, Inc. dba David Wilson’s
Villa Ford (“DWWVF”) in October 2022, November 2022, January 2023, and August
2023 and now seeks to revoke the sales contract.  
The complaint,
filed August 24, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of implied warranty; (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2;
and (4) negligent repair. 
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On September 25,
2023, Ford filed a motion to transfer venue from the Los Angeles County
Superior Court to the Orange County Superior Court – Santa Ana Courthouse.  
            On
October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.
            On
October 20, 2023, Ford filed a reply brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
CCP § 397(c) states that the court may, on
motion, change the place of trial when the convenience of witnesses and the
ends of justice would be promoted by the change.  “Whether a motion for change of venue on the ground of convenience
of witnesses should be granted or denied is a matter within the discretion of
the trial judge.”  (International Inv. Co. v. Merola (1959) 175
Cal.App.2d 439, 446.)  
The burden of providing both the
convenience of witnesses and the promotion of the ends of justice are on the
moving party.  (Flanagan v. Flanagan
(1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 641, 643.)  With
respect to establishing the “convenience of witnesses” made by affidavit, the
showing must include: (1) the name of witnesses, (2) the nature of the
testimony expected from each, and (3) the reasons why the attendance of each
would be inconvenient.  (Id. at
644.)  Before the motion is granted, it
must appear that the witnesses involved will testify to relevant and material
facts, they will be inconvenienced unless the place of trial is changed, and
the ends of justice will be promoted by the change in venue.  (Id. at 646.)  As for the “ends of justice,” the affidavit
supporting the motion “must aver the facts from which such a conclusion may be
reached.”  (Id.) 
“If the affidavits of plaintiff in opposition to
the motion for change of venue show that his witnesses also will be
inconvenienced by the change to another county as is requested by defendant,
there is no abuse of the trial court's discretion in denying the motion.”  (Hecker v. Ross (1960)
183 Cal.App.2d 30, 33.)   
DISCUSSION
            Ford moves to transfer this action
to the Santa Ana Courthouse based on the convenience of witnesses and to
promote the ends of justice.  It also
requests that Plaintiff’s counsel pay Ford for attorney’s fees, costs, and
transfer fees incurred in bringing this motion in the amount of $1,000.  
A.    Filing
of the Motion  
            Plaintiff’s
opposition is mainly focused on the issue of whether this motion was properly
filed in the Burbank Courthouse, Department B. 

The Los Angeles
Superior Court Local Rule, Rule 2.3(b)(2) states: 
(2)
The Supervising Judge of the Civil Division may, for the convenience of
witnesses or to promote the ends of justice, transfer a civil case from one
district to another. Except for proceedings concerning transfer of a Personal
Injury Action, as defined in subsection (a)(1)(A), motions to transfer a civil
action from one district to another, including motions based upon a failure to
file the case in accordance with the requirements set forth in this Chapter
must be made in Department 1 in the Central District. Proceedings concerning
transfer of a Personal Injury Action shall be determined in the Central
District or in the North District in one of the departments designated to hear
those matters (“Personal Injury Court”).
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).)  
            Plaintiff
argues that pursuant to Local Rule 2.3(b)(2), this motion was improperly filed
with Department B and should have been filed in Department 1 in the Stanley
Mosk Courthouse.  Thus, Plaintiff argues
that the motion to transfer should be denied in its entirety.  (Opp. at pp.4-5.) 
            However,
this Local Rule is specific only to transfers of a civil case from “one
district to another.”  Here, for example,
Ford does not seek to transfer this action from Burbank Courthouse to Santa
Monica Courthouse, both of which are located in Los Angeles County.  Rather, Ford seeks to transfer the venue to a
different county pursuant to the CCP rules. 

            Thus,
the Court will hear the substantive merits of the motion to change venue. 
B.     Discussion
of Merits 
            Ford
argues that this action should be transferred to the Santa Ana Courthouse as
the proper venue because Plaintiff resides in Santa Ana, DWWVF is located in
Orange and DWWVF is where the multiple repairs were performed for the vehicle,
and all relevant parties and witnesses are located in Orange County.  Ford argues there is no basis to have the
action in Burbank of Los Angeles County. 

            According
to Ford’s counsel, Cynthia Sun, Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle from
AutoNation Ford Tustin located at 2 Auto Center Drive, Tustin, CA 92782 on
October 13, 2021.  (Sun Decl., ¶2.)  The vehicle was brought for repairs with DWWVF,
which is located in Orange, California.  Plaintiff
acknowledges this in the complaint.  (Id.;
Compl., ¶4.)  Pursuant to the allegations
of the complaint, Plaintiff resides in Santa Ana.  (Sun Decl., ¶5; Compl., ¶2.) 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff provides not substantive arguments regarding why this
action should remain in Burbank or Los Angeles County, as opposed to Orange
County.  Plaintiff does not dispute his
city and county of residence, where the vehicle was purchased, and where the
vehicle repairs were performed—all of which are located in Orange County.  Plaintiff has not provided any arguments or
evidence showing that the action belongs in Los Angeles County or that there
are witnesses that reside in Orange County such that convenience of witnesses
makes it necessary for this action to be in Los Angeles County.  
            Based
on the papers before the Court, the Court finds there is substantive merit to granting
the motion to transfer venue.  
C.     Reasonable
Attorney’s Fees and Costs 
CCP § 396b(b) states: 
In its discretion, the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of
reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred in making or resisting the
motion to transfer whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover
his or her costs of action. In determining whether that order for expenses and
fees shall be made, the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an
offer to stipulate to change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2)
whether the motion or selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts
and law the party making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have
known. As between the party and his or her attorney, those expenses and fees
shall be the personal liability of the attorney not chargeable to the party.
Sanctions shall not be imposed pursuant to this subdivision except on notice
contained in a party's papers, or on the court's own noticed motion, and after
opportunity to be heard.
(CCP § 396b(b).)  
CCP § 399(a) states:
If
the transfer is sought on any ground specified in subdivision (b), (c), (d), or
(e) of Section 397, the costs and
fees of the
transfer, and of filing the papers in the court to which the transfer is
ordered, shall be paid at the time the notice of motion is filed by the party
making the motion for the transfer. If the transfer is sought solely, or is ordered,
because the action or proceeding was commenced in a court other than that
designated as proper by this title, those costs and fees, including any expenses
and attorney's fees awarded to the defendant pursuant to Section 396b, shall be
paid by the plaintiff before the transfer is made. 
(CCP § 399(a).)  
            Ford
requests attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $1,000 for bringing this
motion pursuant to CCP §§ 396b and 399.  
The Court grants the request for fees to bring this motion in the
reasonable amount of $1,000.  (Sun Decl.,
¶6.)  The Court will also direct
Plaintiff to pay and/or reimburse the costs associated with transferring the
action.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion to
transfer venue is granted.  Defendant’s
request for attorney’s fees is granted in the amount of $1,000.  
This matter is transferred to the Superior
Court for the County of Orange, Santa Ana Courthouse located at 700 Civic
Center Drive West, Santa Ana, CA 92701. 
There, the matter will presumably be assigned to a Department by the
Presiding Judge or the clerk acting at his or her direction. The moving party
must pay the Los Angeles Superior Court a $50 transfer fee and must determine
the filling fee of the Orange County Superior Court and provide the Clerk in
Los Angeles County with proof of payment.  The Clerk’s office will print out the entire docket
and mail it, along with the check for the filing fee to the Orange County
Superior Court.  Defendant Ford Motor
Company is ordered to move with deliberate speed to accomplish this transfer.  
Once the appropriate costs have been paid
to transfer this action to the Orange County Superior Court, Defendant may
submit receipts to Plaintiff’s counsel for reimbursement of the paid transfer costs
and Plaintiff is directed to reimburse Defendant within 20 days of receiving
the forwarded receipts. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
