 Case Number:  21BBCV00971    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
amy r. amira, Trustee of The
  Cynthia L. Amira Family Trust,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CMM, LLP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21BBCV00971
 
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Amy R.
Amira (“Ms. Amira”), Trustee of The Cynthia L. Amira Family Trust (“Plaintiff”
or “Amira Trust”) alleges that it entrusted professional business management,
financial planning, and tax services to Defendant CMM, LLP (“CMM”) and its
partner Defendant Gregory A. Mogab (“Mogab”), but that they breached the
fiduciary duty they owed to the Amira Trust by conspiring with other Defendants
to fraudulently induce the Amira Trust to enter into a limited partnership
investment controlled by Defendants as the general partner.  The deal involved the real estate development
at a property located at 6142-6144 Hazelhurst Place in North Hollywood.  The Hazelhurst L.P. Agreement’s terms were
that Defendant Hazelhurst Place Properties, L.P. (“Hazelhurst LP”) would
acquire the property with the following limited partners: (1) $100 contribution
by Defendant OMG Construction Management, LLC (“OMG”) for 1% ownership; (2)
$100 contribution by Mogab for 20% ownership; (3) $100 contribution by
Defendant Anthony Olmedo (“Olmedo”) for 20% ownership; (4) $100 contribution by
Defendant Agustin Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”) for 20% ownership; and (5) $1,400,000
contribution by Amira Trust for 39% ownership. 

Ms. Amira
executed the Hazelhurst L.P. Agreement and the Amira Trust provided all the
capital.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants engaged in self-dealing through fraud, undue influence, and
deception, and wrongfully converted millions of dollars from the Amira Trust
for their sole financial gain.  
            The
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed April 14, 2022, alleges causes of action
for: (1) breach of
fiduciary duty; (2) fraud; (3) conversion; (4) negligence; (5) accounting; (6)
quiet title; (7) breach of contract; and (8) professional negligence.  The 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
and 5th causes of action are alleged against CMM, Mogab, Gonzalez,
Olmedo, OMG, HTD, and Hazelhurst LP.  The
4th cause of action is alleged against Mogab, Olmedo, Gonzalez, OMG,
HTD, and Hazelhurst LP.  The 6th cause
of action is alleged Mogab, Olmedo, Gonzalez, OMG, Ira J. Boren, and Hazelhurst
LP.  The 7th cause of action
is alleged against CMM and Mogab.  The 8th
cause of action is alleged against CMM and Mogab.
            On February 2, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed an Amendment to Complaint naming Robert L. Schreiber as Doe 1 (as to the
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 7th
causes of action).  
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
There are three motions on calendar. 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel Defendant Home Trend Developers, Inc. (“HTD”) to produce
records received pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena to JP Morgan Chase concerning
HTD’s business records.  The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief to the discovery motion.
On August 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Mogab to produce records received
pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena to First Republic Bank concerning business
records of Mogab, an individual.  The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief to the discovery motion. 
On August 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Mogab to produce records received
pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena to First Republic Bank concerning business
records of Gregory Mogab, a professional corporation.  On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
separate statement.  The Court is not in
receipt of an opposition brief to the discovery motion. 
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
notice of non-opposition to the three motions to compel, stating that she is
not in receipt of any opposition briefs to these motions. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO COMPEL HTD TO PRODUCE RECORDS AND MOTIONS
TO COMPEL MOGAB (AS AN INDIVIDUAL AND A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION) TO PRODUCE RECORDS
            Plaintiff
moves to compel HTD to produce records received pursuant to Plaintiff’s
subpoena to JP Morgan Chase (“Chase”) concerning HTD’s business records.  Plaintiff moves to compel Mogab to produce
records received pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena to First Republic Bank
concerning Mogab’s business records, as an individual and a professional
corporation.  In the moving papers, Plaintiff
states that the three motions are essentially identical.  As such, the Court will consider the three
motions together. 
            On June 1, 2023,
the Court entered the Stipulation and Order regarding bank record subpoenas to:
(a) Chase concerning HTD; (b) First Republic Bank concerning Mogab, an
individual; and (c) First Republic Bank concerning Mogab, a professional
corporation.  The Court ordered: (1) Michelman &
Robinson LLP to become the custodian of records for
the Subpoenaed Documents and the banks were to
be notified that the Subpoenaed Documents were
to be sent to counsel; (2) the parties agree to enter into a Protective Order
(entered on August 9, 2023); (3) Defendants will notify Plaintiff of the
receipt of the Subpoenaed Documents within 3 business days of receipt from the
third-party banks; (4) within 20 business days of receipt of the Subpoenaed
Documents and after the Protective Order being entered into by the parties,
Defendants will produce all redacted documents to the parties who entered into
the Protective Order, provide a privilege log, and engage in meet and confer
efforts; and (5) the motion to compel deadline shall be 60 days from
Plaintiff’s receipt of Defendants’ final production of documents, unless other
written extensions are agreed to by the parties.  
            On August 18 and 25, 2023, Michelman
& Robinson LLP (the designated custodian of records) was relieved as
counsel for Defendants Gregory A. Mogab, Agustin Gonzalez, Anthony Olmedo, OMG
Construction Management, LLC, and HTD.  In
the Court’s orders relieving Michelman & Robinson LLP as counsel, the Court
ordered counsel to “retain the subpoenaed documents in its custody, control,
and possession until otherwise ordered by the Court to turn them over to new
counsel.  Counsel shall not dispose of or
destroy the documents without express order of the Court.”  (See Aug. 25, 2023 Order.)  It does not appear that substitution of
attorney forms have been filed for these Defendants.  Further, an OSC re Status of Representation
of Defendants OMG and HTD is on calendar for November 1, 2023.  
            Plaintiff now
seeks to compel the production of the bank statements and records.  Plaintiff seeks the production of the
documents in their entirety or request that the Court conduct an in camera
review of the bank records to assess their discoverability.  Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not
produced bank statements or records or were completely redacted, except for a
handful of HTD’s bank statements and checks. 
Plaintiff argues that she received a privilege log, but the privilege
log did not include any information to evaluate a legitimate basis for
withholding documents. 
            The documents
sought include: (1) all accounts for HTD and Mogab; (2) all monthly bank statements
held in their account names from 2017 to the present; (3) all cancelled checks
held in their account names from 2017 to the present; (4) all deposit slips in
their account names from 2017 to the present; (5) all withdrawals for accounts
held in their account names from 2017 to the present; (6) all money orders for
accounts held in their account names from 2017 to the present; (7) all ACH and
wire transfers for any account held in their account names from 2017 to the
present; (8) all account closing information for any account held in their
account names from 2017 to the present; (9) all credit card activity for any
account held in their account names from 2017 to the present; (10) all loan
documents for any loan in which they are a borrower or loan guarantor; (11) all
credit card statements for any account in their names; (12) all power of
attorney agreements related to Defendants; and (13) all communications
including emails between the bank and Defendants from 2017 to the present.  
            The bank records
are relevant to this action and the claims herein.  While there may be some financial privacy
concerns, the parties entered the Stipulation and the Court signed the Order,
as well as the Protective Order, so that discovery of HTD and Mogab’s financial
records could be produced and reviewed. 
Based on Plaintiff’s representations, documents were not produced and,
if they were, they were redacted. 
Further, the Court has reviewed the privilege log and the privilege log
relies mostly on objections of the financial privilege, privacy of third
parties, and irrelevance.  However, the
privilege log fails to identify what third party privacy rights are at issue,
thereby making the privilege log incomplete. 
Further, the documents are relevant to this action to ascertain whether
the funds were embezzled during the real estate development deal.  Finally, with respect to the financial
privilege, “individuals
have a legally recognized privacy interest in their personal financial
information.”  (International Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers,
Local 21, AFL-CIO v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 319, 330.)  However, “[t]he corporate right to privacy is a lesser
right than that held by human beings and is not considered a fundamental
right.”  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756.)  As such, the
documents regarding HTD and Mogab (a professional corporation) should be
produced in full to Plaintiff.  While
there is a legally recognized privacy right in personal financial information,
these financial records have been placed at issue by nature of this action and
the parties and this Court have taken adequate precautionary measures by way of
the Stipulation and Order and the Protective Order to ensure that the documents
produced remain confidential.  
            As such, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel the production of the business
records of HTD, Mogab (an individual) and Mogab (a professional
corporation).  Michelman &
Robinson LLP is directed to produce the documents to Plaintiff’s counsel in
their unredacted form.  At this time, the
documents will be subject to the Protective Order and will be designated as
confidential.  
            Plaintiff seeks $7,105 in sanctions
against HTD, its principals, Olmedo and Gonzalez, and Mogab, jointly and
severally.  For the three motions, the
Court grants sanctions in the total amount of $3,000, plus $180 in filing
fees.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff
Amy R. Amira, Trustee of The Cynthia L. Amira Family Trust’s motion to compel Defendant
Home Trend Developers, Inc. to produce records received pursuant to Plaintiff’s
subpoena to JP Morgan Chase concerning Home Trend Developers, Inc.’s business
records, the motion to compel Gregory Mogab to produce
records received pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena to First Republic Bank
concerning business records of Gregory Mogab (an individual), and the motion to compel
Gregory Mogab to produce records received pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena to
First Republic Bank concerning business records of Gregory Mogab (a
professional corporation) are granted. 
Plaintiff is directed to serve this order on Defendants’ prior counsel
and custodian of records, Michelman & Robinson LLP, so that Michelman &
Robinson LLP may comply with this order and produce the subpoenaed records to Plaintiff’s
counsel.  Michelman & Robinson LLP is
ordered to comply with the production of records within 20 days of notice of
the order.  Defendants Home Trend
Developers, Inc. and Gregory Mogab, jointly and
severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,180 to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel within 20 days of notice of this order.  
Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order.
 
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 

 