 Case Number:  23BBCV01661    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
michael
  binns-alfred aka michael d binnsalfred & gabriel alfred, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01661
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrers 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Michael Binns-Alfred aka
Michael D Binnsalfred and Gabriel Alfred (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on April 1,
2021, they entered into a warranty contact with Defendant Ford Motor Company
(“FMC”) regarding a 2019 Ford F-150. 
Plaintiffs allege that during the express warranty period, defects and
nonconformities manifested themselves. 
Plaintiffs allege that they delivered the vehicle to an authorized FMC
repair facility, Defendant Knight Sunrise Hollywood LLC dba Sunrise Ford of
North Hollywood (“Sunrise”), but Sunrise breached its duty by failing to
properly store, prepare, and repair the subject vehicle in accordance with
industry standards.  Plaintiffs allege
that they sought a replacement vehicle or restitution, but FMC failed to
promptly make restitution or remedy the defects.  
The complaint, filed July 24, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act, § 1793.2; and (3)
negligent repair.    
B.    
Demurrers on Calendar 
On October 2, 2023, Sunrise filed a
demurrer to the complaint.  On October
16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. 
On October 20, 2023, Sunrise filed a reply brief. 
On October 2, 2023, FMC filed a demurrer
to the complaint.  No opposition brief
was filed with respect to FMC’s demurrer by Plaintiffs.  On October 20, 2023, FMC filed a reply brief
and evidentiary objections. 
OPPOSITION
PAPERS
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes
that Plaintiffs only filed an opposition brief to Sunrise’s demurrer, but they
have not filed an opposition brief with respect to FMC’s demurrer.  It appears that a substantive opposition to
FMC’s demurrer was served on FMC as FMC filed substantive reply
arguments in its brief and even filed evidentiary objections.  (For example, in the reply at page 2, FMC
argues that Plaintiffs rely entirely on Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112.)  However,
the Court is not in receipt of any memorandums of points and authorities in
support of the opposition to FMC’s demurrer from Plaintiffs.  
Thus, the Court will continue the hearing
on FMC’s demurrer so that Plaintiffs can file with the Court the full
opposition papers for the Court’s consideration.  The Court will also continue Sunrise’s
demurrer so that the parties and their counsel need not make two separate
appearances for the demurrers.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant
Ford Motor Company’s demurrer to the complaint is continued to November 9, 2023
at 8:30 a.m.  Plaintiff is ordered to
file the opposition papers promptly, no later than the end of the business day
by October 30, 2023.  No further briefing
shall be permitted.   
Defendant Sunrise Ford of
North Hollywood’s demurrer to the complaint is continued to
November 9, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. so that it may be heard concurrently with
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s demurrer. 
This demurrer is fully briefed. 
No further briefing shall be permitted. 
Defendants shall give notice of
this order.  
 
