 Case Number:  22BBCV00873    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
michael chtivelman, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
northridge caregivers, co., inc., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  22BBCV00873
 
  Hearing Date: October 27, 2023
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Natalia Kapych and Michael Chtivelman (“Plaintiffs”, in
propria persona) allege that Chtivelman, Defendant Larissa Li, and
Defendant Northridge Caregivers, Co., Inc. (“NCCI”) executed a settlement
agreement in Case No. LC107566 in the Glendale Courthouse on August 22,
2022.  NCCI is a marijuana collective and
a California cooperative corporation.  Plaintiffs
allege that pursuant to the agreement, Chtivelman dropped the case and sold 30%
of his shares in NCCI to buyer Kapych. 
They allege that on May 16, 2022, Li was deposed, where Li testified
that Defendants Jordan Olshanski and Mikhail Fayman did not invest any money,
were not working for NCCI, and were not affiliated with the company.  Chtivelman alleges that he demanded to
inspect the financial records and books, but Defendants refused.  
The third amended complaint (“TAC”), filed on August 7, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) breach of written contract by Chtivelman against Li
and NCCI; (2) breach of verbal contract by Chtivelman against Li and NCCI; (3)
breach of written contract by Kapych against Li and NCCI; (4) breach of verbal
contract by Kapych against Li and NCCI; and (5) fraudulent representation by
Chtivelman against Li.  
On August 7, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed with prejudice Defendants
Michael Fayman and Jordan Olshanski. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On September 5, 2023, Li and NCCI filed a demurrer and motion to strike
portions of the TAC. 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a single opposition brief.  
On October 19, 2023, Li and NCCI filed a reply brief to the demurrer. 
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER 
Li and NCCI (hereinafter, “Defendants”) demur
to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 5th
causes of action causes of action on the ground that Plaintiffs have not
alleged sufficient facts to constitute causes of action against them.  They also specially demur, arguing that the
allegations are uncertain and fail to allege sufficient facts for the breach of
contract causes of action.
A.    1st cause of action for breach of written contract by
Chtivelman against Li and NCCI
The essential elements of a cause
of action for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.” 
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  “A
written contract may be pleaded either by
its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to
the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal
effect.”  (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  
In the 1st cause of
action for breach of written contract, Plaintiffs allege that for valuable
consideration, Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into the settlement and
shareholders agreements.  (TAC, ¶25, Ex.
1.)  Plaintiffs allege that pursuant to
the settlement agreement, Chtivelman dropped a case and 30% of his shares in
NCCI (3,000 shares) to buyer Kapych, whom Chtivelman has been named as the
legal proxy.  (Id., ¶25.)  They allege that pursuant to the settlement
agreement, the shares transferred to Kapych were to be free and clear of all
debts, except debts owed and legal obligations or future potential liability to
government tax agencies, and to confirm this, Defendants were to produce
supporting documents.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs allege that Li did not produce any
documents at the August 28, 2022 meeting. 
(Id.)  Plaintiffs allege
that they repeatedly demanded Defendants to abide by the settlement agreement
and the Corporations Code to produce financial and accounting documents, but no
documents were produced.  (Id., ¶26.)  They allege Defendants materially breached
the shareholders agreement and Corporations Code by failing to repay the Note
on Plaintiffs’ demand and that Defendants breached the contract by transferring
shares that were not clear of debts.  (Id.,
¶27.)  
Defendants demur to the 1st
cause of action, arguing that Plaintiffs misstate Defendants’ contractual duty
to confirm that the shares are free and clear of all debts except those noted
in the agreement.  While Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs’ allegations are misstatements of fact and are directly
contrary to the actual written contract, the settlement agreement appears to
include the same language as alleged in the TAC.  Based on the allegations of the TAC,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were required to transfer shares to Kapych
free and clear of all debts except those debts owed and legal obligations or
future potential liability to governmental taxing agencies and any other
creditors, all of whom are currently known and listed in the form Exhibit
SA-B.  (TAC, ¶25; Settlement Agreement, §
II.1.)  Although Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs’ allegations are inconsistent with the settlement agreement,
Defendants only generally argue this without specifying what terms are
inconsistent.  
Despite this, there are still
issues with the 1st cause of action. 
While Plaintiffs cite to Exhibit SA-B in the TAC and their opposition
brief, the Court has reviewed the TAC and cannot find Exhibit SA-B.  As such, the known debtors are not listed and
Plaintiffs’ allegations regarding Defendants’ purported breach is conclusory
and lacks supporting facts.  Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants did not provide shares free and clear of all debt
(except as listed in Exhibit SA-B, which the Court does not have).  Further, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
breached the settlement agreement by failing to produce company documents for
Plaintiffs’ review and examination. 
(TAC, ¶27.)  However, the
settlement agreement does not include a term that Defendants must produce
documents so that Plaintiffs can confirm that the shares were being transferred
free and clear of debts.  The
shareholder’s agreement similarly lacks these requirements and provisions. 
In the Court’s prior order on the
demurrer to the SAC, the Court warned Plaintiffs that they would have one final
opportunity to amend the complaint.  The
Court raised issues with the pleading and ordered Plaintiffs to separate their
causes of action for breach of written contract so that there would be one
cause of action for breach of the settlement agreement and another cause of
action for breach of the shareholder’s agreement.  This was not complied with upon amendment in
this latest iteration of the complaint.  The
Court also pointed out that Plaintiffs did not present any case law showing how
a failure to produce documents would eviscerate the law regarding the formation
of a contract and the basic elements thereto.  As stated in the prior demurrer order,
Plaintiffs had a final opportunity to amend the 1st cause of
action.  The issues regarding the 1st
cause of action have not been cured and the 1st cause of action
still lacks sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants.  
As such, the demurrer to the 1st
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
B.     2nd cause of action for breach of verbal contract by
Chtivelman against Li and NCCI 
“The elements of
a breach of oral contract claim
are the same as those for a breach of written contract:
a contract; its performance or excuse for nonperformance; breach; and
damages.”  (Stockton Mortgage,
Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 453.)  “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as
to its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words.”  (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
In the 2nd cause of
action for breach of verbal contract, Plaintiffs allege that they entered into
a verbal agreement on August 22, 2022 in the office of David M. Kritzer, Esq.
to hold a meeting on August 28, 2022 to confirm that the transferred shares
were free and clear of all debt except as stated in Exhibit SA-B.  (TAC, ¶30.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants had to produce various company documents
and that they requested Li to produce specific company records.  (Id., ¶31.)  Plaintiffs allege that Li did not produce any
records at the August 28, 2022 meeting. 
(Id., ¶32.)  They allege
that Defendants materially breached the verbal agreement and that the shares
were not free and clear of debts.  (Id.,
¶34.)  
Defendants demur to the 2nd
cause of action, arguing that the settlement agreement expressly states that
the document is the entire agreement, cannot be amended except in writing
executed jointly by the parties, and the agreement cannot be modified by oral
representations before or after executing the agreement.  (Settlement Agreement, §§ 18, 20.)  There is no term in the settlement agreement
requiring Defendants to produce documents, much less an agreement that document
would be produced by the August 28, 2022 meeting.  Plaintiffs have not presented any exhibits or
documentary evidence showing that this verbal agreement (modification) was
later written and executed by the parties. 

As such, the demurrer to the 2nd
cause of action is sustained.  As noted
in the Court’s prior order on the demurrer to the SAC, Plaintiffs had a final
opportunity to amend the 2nd cause of action.  However, the 2nd cause of action
continues to have issues and still fails to allege sufficient facts against
Defendants.  As such, the demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend. 
C.     4th cause of action for breach of verbal contract by Kapych
against Li and NCCI 
Defendants argue that for the same reason the
2nd cause of action fails, the 4th cause of action also
fails.  
The 4th cause of action is similar
to the 2nd cause of action, except that the 2nd cause of
action is asserted by Chtivelman while the 4th cause of action is
asserted by Kapych.  (See TAC,
¶¶51-57.)  For the same reasons discussed
above, the demurrer to the 4th cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend.  
D.    5th cause of action for fraudulent representation by
Chtivelman against Li 
To allege a cause of action for
fraud, the requisite elements are: (1) a representation, usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its
falsity; (3) intent to
defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation; and (5) damage
resulting from that justifiable reliance. 
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990)
220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  This cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts
constituting each element must be alleged with particularity; the claim cannot
be saved by referring to the policy favoring liberal construction of
pleadings.  (Committee on
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216.)  Since the claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause
of action based on misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 5th cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that Chtivelman and Li had a meeting in July 2023
where Chtivelman stated he weas aware that Olshanskiy and Fayman used to manage
NCCI in violation of cannabis control department regulations without accounting
and control from NCCI’s supervisors. 
(TAC, ¶59.)  Chtivelman alleges
that he stated he would not enter the settlement agreement if Olshanskiy and Fayman
were involved in company management and that Li assured him that Olshanskiy and
Fayman were not involved in the company. 
(Id., ¶¶59-60.)  He alleges
that on May 16, 2022, Li testified during her deposition that Olshanskiy and
Fayman “didn’t invest any money not working or contractor in NCCI and not
affiliated with the company any other way and don’t have any written or verbal
contracts….”  (Id., ¶61.)  Plaintiffs allege that Li misrepresented
these facts intentionally with the intent to deceive Plaintiffs out of their
rights and interest in the matter.  (Id.,
¶62.)  Plaintiffs then allege recitations
of the law regarding damages for fraud. 
(Id., ¶¶63-66.)  Plaintiffs
allege they sustained general, special, consequential, and incidental damages
and seek compensatory and punitive damages against Defendants.  (Id., ¶¶67-68.)  
Plaintiffs’ allegations fail to
allege each element of a fraud cause of action with the requisite
particularity.  The 5th cause
of action does not allege facts showing how Chtivelman relied on Li’s
representations, how his reliance was justified, and the damages resulting from
that reliance.  Further, the nature of
the misrepresentation is not clear. 
While Plaintiffs allege that Li represented that Olshanskiy and Fayman
were not involved in the company and did not invest money, Plaintiffs have not
alleged in the TAC what part of this statement was untrue.  
Plaintiffs have had multiple
opportunities to amend the fraud cause of action and have failed to do so
effectively in the TAC.  As such, the
demurrer to the 5th cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants Li and NCCI move to strike the
Prayer for Damages with respect to the 1st, 2nd, 4th,
an 5th causes of action.  
In light of the ruling on the demurrer, the
motion to strike is taken off-calendar as moot. CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants Larissa Li and Northridge
Caregivers Co., Inc.’s demurrer to the TAC is sustained without leave to amend
as to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 5th
causes of action.  
 In
light of the ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is taken off-calendar
as moot. 
Defendants shall provide notice of their respective order. 
 
