 Case Number:  24STCV02008    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ALISA C.
  SCHLESINGER, individually and as Trustee of the ALISA C. SCHLESINGER
TRUST, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
TNL RENOVATION INC., a California
corporation (f/k/a T.N.L. CONSTRUCTION
INC.); MEIR LEVI, an individual; TOMER
LEVI, an individual; and DOES 1 through
  50,
inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV02008
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO SERVE TOMER LEVI BY PUBLICATION
 
Date: August 20, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 




 


 


 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff ALISA C. SCHLESINGER, individually and as Trustee of the ALISA
C. SCHLESINGER TRUST (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
 The motion is unopposed.
 
BACKGROUND
             This is an action arising out of a residential
construction contract alleged to have been entered into in February 2019.  Plaintiff filed a complaint on January 25,
2024, against Defendants TNL Renovation Inc. (“TNL”); Meir Levi; and Tomer Levi
(collectively,  “Defendants”), seeking
damages for breach of contract stemming from Defendants’ alleged failure to
complete the contracted work.
 
            Plaintiff contends that Meir Levi and Tomer Levi are alter egos of TNL,
and that she is suing both in said capacity.  TNL and Meir
Levi have been served.  Plaintiff now
moves for leave to serve Tomer Levi by publication.  The motion is unopposed.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard 
            Under Code Civ. Proc. § 415.50, a
summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it appears to the
satisfaction of the Court that: (1) the party to be served cannot with
reasonable diligence be served in another manner; and (2) a cause of action exists
against the party upon whom service is to be made or the party to be served has
an interest in property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the court or the
relief demanded in the action would exclude the party from any interest in the
property.  Strict compliance is required
to obtain leave to serve by publication.  (County of Riverside v. Superior Court
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 443, 450.)  Further,
constitutional principles of due process of law require that service by
publication be used only as a last resort.  (Watts v. Crawford (1995) 10 Cal.4th
743, 749 fn. 5.)  
 
Pursuant
to Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a), the party wishing to serve by
publication must, by affidavit, satisfy the court in which the action is
pending that the person to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served
in another manner specified in Article 3, pertaining to manner of service of
summons.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 415.10 to
415.50.)  The affidavit should detail a
thorough search to locate the person to be served, indicating that the party
seeking leave to serve by publication has made a number of honest attempts to
learn the whereabouts or address of the person to be served by asking the
person's employer, friends, relatives, and acquaintances, and by investigating
the appropriate city and telephone directories, the voters' register, and the
real and personal property index in the assessor's office, near the person's
last known location.  (Judicial Council
Comment to Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50; Monterey S. P. Partnership v. W. L.
Bangham, Inc., 49 Cal. 3d 454.)
 
Here, Plaintiff contends that despite diligent
efforts to serve Tomer Levi at three different addresses associated with him,
discovered via searches on the Contractor’s State License Board and California
Secretary of State, all efforts have failed.  Hence, Plaintiff seeks service of Tomer Levi
by publication. 
 
Plaintiff submits the declaration of her counsel, Alan
J. Carnegie (“Carnegie”) in support of the instant motion (“Carnegie Decl.”).  Carnegie attests that he attempted to serve
Tomer Levi at three different addresses: 1) at the Buenaventura address listed
with the CSLB (Contractor’s State License Board) and where Meir Levi and TNL were
served; 2) at the La Cienega address of the company with whom Tomer Levi is
presently affiliated; and 3) at the Ventura Blvd. address on file with the
California Secretary of State.  (Carnegie
Decl., ¶ 3.)  Carnegie attached as
exhibits to his declaration the Declarations of Diligence by the attorney
service he used, Janney & Janney, which summarized service efforts done at
the La Cienega and Ventura Blvd. addresses. 
(Id., Exhs. A and B.)  Also
attached as an exhibit is a correspondence between County Legal and Carnegie
outlining the failed service attempts at the Buenaventura address by County
Legal.  (Id., Exh. C.)
 
Plaintiff’s motion is unopposed.  Carnegie’s
declaration is sufficient to establish that Tomer Levi cannot be served in
another manner with reasonable diligence.¿ 
 
RULING
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to serve
Tomer Levi by publication is GRANTED.    
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 20th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 