  Case Number:  23VECV01336    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



AISHA AHAL, an individual,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC.; and DOES 1
  through 50, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01336
 
 
ORDER
  GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES
  TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a
Song-Beverly Act case arising out of Plaintiff Aisha Ahal’s (“Plaintiff”)
purchase of a new 2019 Honda CRV manufactured by Defendant American Honda Motor
Company, Inc. (“Defendant”). (See Complaint, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges
that she purchased a defective vehicle subject to a warranty issued by
Defendant, that she was unable to fix the vehicle, and Defendant failed to
issue a refund or replacement. (See id. at ¶¶ 11-15.)
Plaintiff now
seeks to compel Defendant’s further responses to her request for production of
documents and special interrogatories. 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On March 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging (1) Violation of subdivision (d)
of Civil Code § 1793.2; (2) Violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code §
1793.2; (3) Violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (4) Breach
of Express Written Warranty Civil Code § 1791.2 subdivision (a), section 1794;
and (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability Civil Code §§ 1791.1,
1794.
On April 24,
2023, Defendant filed its Answer.
On March 20,
2024, this Court denied Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
          On
September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Further Responses to her Special Interrogatories (“SROGS”)(“Motion SROGS”).
On September
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Defendant’s Further
Responses to her Request for Production of Documents (“RFPs”)(“Motion RFPs”). 
On November
6, 2024, Defendant filed its Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion SROGS and its
Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion RFPs. 
On November 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed her Replies. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
A.            
Request for Production of Documents 
In responding to a request for
production of documents, a party must provide one of the following: (1) a
legally adequate statement of compliance; (2) a statement of inability to
comply; or (3) an objection to the particular demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.210(a).)[1] If any objections are made,
they must: (1) “[i]dentify with particularity any document …
falling within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is
being made”; and (2) “[s]et forth clearly the extent of, and the specific
ground for, the objection.”¿(Id. at § 2031.240(b).) A statement that
the responding party is unable to comply with a particular demand “shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand”; “shall also specify whether the inability to comply
is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party”; 
and “shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.” (Id. at § 2031.230.) 
A party who
believes a responding party has served (1) an incomplete statement of
compliance, (2) an inadequate, incomplete, or evasive statement of compliance,
or (3) an unmeritorious objection can move for an order compelling further
responses but must “set forth specific acts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.” (See id. at §§
2031.310(a)-(b)(1).) 
B.      Interrogatories 
A propounding party may move for an order
compelling further responses to interrogatories if the responding party
produced an evasive or incomplete answer or a meritless or overly general
objection in response to an interrogatory. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(a).) A motion to compel further responses to interrogatories lies
where the party to whom the interrogatories were directed gave responses deemed
improper by the propounding party; e.g., objections, or evasive or incomplete
answers. (See id. at § 2030.300.)¿The moving party must also include reasons why
further answers should be ordered: legal or factual arguments why the answers
given were incomplete or nonresponsive, or the objections invalid.¿(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) 
However, where a timely motion to compel has
been filed, “the
burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully
answer the interrogatories.”¿(Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civil
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 8:1179.)¿“The ruling usually is based on consideration
of the following factors: [¶] the relationship of the information sought to the
issues framed in the pleadings; [¶] the likelihood that disclosure will be of
practical benefit to the party seeking discovery; [¶] the burden or expense
likely to be encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information
sought.”¿(Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior
Court (Rolfe) (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.)
IV.         
MEET AND CONFER
Before bringing a motion to compel further responses to any
discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet and
confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts.
(See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b)(1), and 2033.290(b)(1).)
“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing
a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Id. at § 2016.040.) However, a discovery
motion should not be denied automatically based upon the reason that the moving
parties failed to meet and confer in good faith. (See Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.) 
Plaintiff provides a meet and confer declaration attesting to the
parties meet and confer efforts, which consists of an exchange of meet and
confer letters, emails, and phone calls. (See Declaration of Andrew
Dickson filed September 13, 2024 (“Dickson Decl.”), ¶¶ 6-11, Exs. 9-11.) The
Court finds Plaintiff has fulfilled her meet and confer requirements and thus
turns its attention to the merits of the motions. 
V.            
ANALYSIS
There are two
discovery motions presently before this Court. The Court will address the
Motion RFPs first and the Motion SROGS second. 
As a
preliminary matter, both Plaintiff’s Motion RFPs and Motion SROGS are timely. Notice
of a motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of service
of verified responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific
later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (See Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2031.230(c),
2030.300(c),
2033.290(c).) When responses are served by mail, that time is extended by five
days. (See id. at § 1013(a).) If such notice is not given timely, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (See id.)¿Here, Defendant served supplemental responses to
Plaintiff’s RFPs and SROGS on May 8, 2024, but extended Plaintiff’s deadline to
file motions to compel further to September 15, 2024. (See Dickson
Decl., ¶¶ 9, 11, Exs. 6-7, 11.) Plaintiff filed her Motion RFPs and Motion
SROGS on September 13, 2024. Plaintiff’s motions are thus timely.  
The Court
also notes the parties appear to have stipulated to a protective order. (See
Dickson Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 8.) The protective order was filed with the Court
but later rejected because it was not signed by all parties. (See Notice
of Rejection of Electronic Filing dated May 20, 2024.) To the extent the Court
grants further responses and production of materials pursuant to a protective
order, Defendant shall do so once the parties file a proposed protective order
within five days of service of this order. 
A.            
Plaintiff’s Motion RFPs is Granted in
Part.
Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to her RFPs Nos. 12, 13. (See Defendant’s
Opposition to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.) 
RFP No. 12
requests “[a]ll DOCUMENTS, including electronically stored information and
electronic mails, constituting customer complaints, claims, reported failures,
and warranty claims concerning the ENGINE DEFECT in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLES.”
RFP No. 13
requests “[a]ll DOCUMENTS, including electronically stored information and
electronic mails, reflecting failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of the ENGINE DEFECT.”
Plaintiff is
entitled to an order compelling Defendant’s responses to her RFPs in part. More
specifically, Plaintiff is entitled to certain documents relating to the subject
vehicle and
vehicles of the same make, year, and model as the subject vehicle in accordance
with the Court’s previously issued “Joint Case Management Conference Statement
Addendum” (“Addendum”). (See Minute Order dated February 23, 2024.) Pursuant
to the Addendum: “2. Defendant shall produce any internal analysis or
investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles
for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle. This includes Recall
Notices and Technical Service Bulletins. Defendant is not required to do a
search of emails” and “3. Defendant shall produce any customer complaints
relating to defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles purchased in
California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.” (Id.
(emphasis added).) Plaintiff is not entitled to an order compelling Defendant’s
response to her RFPs beyond the scope of the Court’s Addendum or the parties’
stipulated protective order.  
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s Motion RFPs.
B.            
Plaintiff’s Motion SROGS is Granted in
Part.
Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to her SROGS Nos. 2 and 24-29. (See
Defendant’s Opposition to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.) The Court will
address each, including Defendant’s response, in turn. 
1.        SROG No. 2
SROG No. 2
asks Defendant to “[p]lease IDENTIFY any and all REPAIR DOCUMENTS issued by YOU
for vehicles of the same make, year, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE that
pertain to the ENGINE DEFECT.” Engine defect is defined as “a defect(s) in the
SUBJEECT[sic] VEHICLE which results in the following symptoms: phantom braking;
illumination of the brake warning light; seatbelt malfunctioning; ignition
failures; battery failures; door lock malfunctioning.”
In response,
Defendant objected to the special interrogatory, arguing it is vague,
ambiguous, overly broad and burdensome, and not calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. The Court overrules Defendant’s objections
and finds Plaintiff is entitled to further responses to her SROG No. 2. The
Complaint alleges the subject vehicle exhibited the following defects: Defective
braking system; Defective safety system; Defective steering system; Defective
ignition system; Defective door system. (See Complaint, ¶ 12.) The Court
finds Plaintiff’s definition of engine defect is reasonably tailored to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence in light of the alleged defects. 
2.       SROG No. 24
SROG No. 24
asks Defendant to “[p]lease IDENTIFY all databases YOU or YOUR agents,
employees, and/or representative maintain which contain electronically stored
information relating to YOUR efforts to investigate, diagnose, assess,
determine, modify, repair, and/or evaluate the ENGINE DEFECT in vehicles of the
same make, model, and year as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [For purposes of this
interrogatory, the term "IDENTIFY" shall be interpreted to mean
identification of the name of the database, the location of the database, and
the custodians of such database, and the manner in which the database may be
searched.]”
In response,
Defendant objected to the special interrogatory, arguing it is overly broad and
oppressive, and not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence
as it seeks the manner in which Defendant stores information only. Defendant
also objected on the basis of confidential or proprietary or trade secret
information. 
The Court
overrules Defendant’s objections and finds Plaintiff is entitled to a further
response to its SROG No. 24. As an initial matter, the parties appear to have stipulated
to a protective order, allaying any concerns Defendant has about confidential
or proprietary or trade secret information. The existence of a database is also
not privileged information. Plaintiff’s request is reasonably tailored to
vehicles of the same make, model, and year. 
///
3.       SROGS Nos. 25 and 26
SROGS Nos. 25
and 26 seek “the number of new motor vehicles of the same make, model, and year
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE sold in the United States” and in “California.” 
In response,
Defendant objected to these special interrogatories, arguing they are vague,
ambiguous, overly broad and burdensome, and not calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. The Court disagrees, overrules Defendant’s
objections, and finds Plaintiff is entitled to further response to her SROGS
Nos. 25 and 26 as Plaintiff’s SROGs are reasonably tailored to vehicles of the
same make, model, and year. 
4.       SROGS Nos. 27 and 28
SROGS Nos. 27
and 28 ask Defendant if it repurchased any vehicles of the same make, model,
and year due to alleged nonconformity of those vehicles’ braking systems or involving
phantom braking. 
In response,
Defendant objected to these special interrogatories, arguing they are vague,
ambiguous, overly broad and burdensome, and not calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant also objected on the basis of
confidential or proprietary or trade secret information. 
The Court
overrules Defendant’s objections. Again, the parties appear to have stipulated
to a protective order, allaying any concerns Defendant has about confidential
or proprietary or trade secret information. The Court finds Plaintiff is
entitled to further response to her SROGS Nos. 27 and 28 as Plaintiff’s SROGs
are reasonably tailored to vehicles of the same make, model, and year. 
5.       SROG No. 29
SROG No. 29
asks Defendant to “[p]lease provide the vehicle identification number for each
vehicle of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE that YOU have
repurchased due to alleged nonconformities to those vehicles’ braking systems.”
In response,
Defendant objected to the special interrogatory, arguing it is overly broad and
oppressive, and not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
The Court agrees and sustains Defendant’s objection. The Court finds
information concerning similar defects in the same make, model, and year is discoverable
information, as discussed above. The vehicle information number of these other
vehicles, however, is unnecessary and not calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. The Court thus denies Plaintiff’s Motion SROGS as to
SROG No. 29.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s Motion SROGS. 
VI.         
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Further Responses to her Request for Production of Documents. 
The Court
also GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses
to her Special Interrogatories.
Defendant
shall provide Plaintiff code-compliant supplemental responses without objection
along with all responsive documents in accordance with the Court’s analysis
above on or before December 16, 2024. 
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      ­­­­­November 25, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court




 


