  Case Number:  18PSCV00192    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: Troy Trang, et al. v. CC Royal Services, Inc., et al.

1. Plaintiffs Troy Trang and Ling Yin’s Motion for Summary Judgment on Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint; and
2. Cross-Defendants Troy Trang and Ling Yin’s Motion for Summary Adjudication on Shu Wang’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.

TENTATIVE RULING
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment on the Third Amended Complaint.

The Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication on the First Amended Cross-Complaint.

Defendant Wang is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.

BACKGROUND
This is a personal property dispute. On December 29, 2018, Plaintiffs Troy Trang (Troy) and Ling Yin (Ling) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against Defendant Shu Wang (Wang) and other defendants who have since been dismissed from this action. On September 12, 2019, Plaintiffs filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC), alleging one cause of action for conversion against Defendant Wang and Does 1 through 10.

On December 11, 2019, Wang filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs and Yan Hsing Lin, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, conversion, intentional misrepresentation, and false promise.[1] On February 6, 2020, Wang filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC), alleging the same causes of action against the same parties.

On June 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion for summary judgment as to the TAC and a separate motion for summary adjudication as to the second cause of action for conversion in the FACC. On September 18, 2023, Wang opposed both motions. On September 27, 2023, Plaintiffs replied to both oppositions.

Trial is scheduled for November 14, 2023.

LEGAL STANDARD – Motion for Summary Judgment
The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)

“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “[A] plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each element of’ the ‘cause of action’ in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there is no defense’ thereto.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).)”

Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)

PRELIMINARY ISSUES – Motion for Summary Judgment
“The relevant portion of any testimony in the deposition must be marked in a manner that calls attention to the testimony.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1116, subd. (c).) The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ proffered evidence includes excerpts from a deposition transcript, but that no relevant portions are highlighted per Rule 3.1116, subdivision (c) of the California Rules of Court. (See Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 7 attached to Separate Statement.) The Court admonishes Plaintiffs to comply with the California Rules of Court going forward.

The Court further notes that Plaintiffs’ reply papers attached an additional exhibit. Generally, new evidence is not permitted on reply unless it fills in gaps in the evidence created by the opposing party’s opposition and is not raising new substantive issues for the first time; otherwise, a further hearing would be required to permit the opposing party to respond. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.) Thus, to the extent the new evidence submitted does not respond to issues raised in the opposition, the Court declines to consider it.

OBJECTIONS – Motion for Summary Judgment
The Court rules as follows on Wang’s evidentiary objections:
1.	With respect to Plaintiff Troy Trang’s declaration, the Court OVERRULES Wang’s objections to numbers 1, 2 and 4. The Court SUSTAINS Wang’s objections to numbers 3 and 5 on the grounds that Trang lacks personal knowledge and hearsay, respectively.
2.	With respect to Plaintiff Ling Yin’s declaration, the Court OVERRULES Wang’s objections to numbers 1, 2 and 4. The Court SUSTAINS Wang’s objections to numbers 3 and 5 on the grounds that Yin lacks personal knowledge and hearsay, respectively.

DISCUSSION – Motion for Summary Judgment
Conversion
“Conversion is generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal property of another. [Citation.] The basic elements of the tort are (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages. [Citations.]” (Regent All. Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)

Plaintiffs move for summary judgment on their sole cause of action for conversion on the grounds that the undisputed facts satisfy all of the elements to support their claim for conversion, and that there are no triable issues of material facts because Wang fails to establish any affirmative defense. Plaintiffs proffer the following as undisputed material facts:

1.	The sale of the real estate on 2829 Wagon Train Lane, Diamond Bar, CA 91765 (“Home”) closed escrow on November 26, 2018. (SSUMF 1.)
2.	In addition to purchasing the real estate, Wang claims to have purchased $185,000 worth of personal property identified in the furniture inventory lists from the Home. (SSUMF 2.)
3.	Wang stated, “Upon taking Home possession, seven (7) days after close of escrow, I discovered many pieces of the purchased furniture had been removed from the Home…. Specifically, the missing pieces included:
a.	Living Room
i.	1 stand at hallway to garage (porcelain)
b.	Master Bedroom
i.	2 pcs big carpet (silk) (one silk and one wool with additional carpet padding matt)
c.	Middle Level
i.	Two Ming dynasty style chairs
d.	Bottom Level
i.	10 pcs china
ii.	Big partition panel.” (SSUMF 3.)
4.	Wang is in possession of all the items listed in “Exhibit 3” that she did not identify as missing. (SSUMF 4.)
5.	Wang stated that she only negotiated the sale of the personal properties identified in the furniture inventory lists with Yan Hsing Yin and Ling Yin. (SSUMF 5.)
6.	Wang admitted that Plaintiff Trang did not agree to sell any items to her. (SSUMF 6.)
7.	Wang asserts that she paid $185,000 to Yan Hsing Yin for the purchase of the properties identified in the furniture lists attached as “Exhibit 3”. (SSUMF 7.)
8.	During the deposition, the Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) from Bank of America, Wang’s bank, was unable to confirm Yan Hsing Yin as the recipient of the $185,000 payment for the personal property purchase. (SSUMF 8.)
9.	Wang deliberately called a locksmith to change out the lock of the Home on December 4, 2018. (SSUMF 9.)

The Court finds these proffered undisputed material facts and the evidence cited in support thereof fail to establish the absence of a triable issue of material fact for Plaintiffs’ conversion claim. First, Plaintiffs have not established that Wang is in possession of the items allegedly converted.

Second, the TAC alleges many categories of items, including but not necessarily limited to “digital assets” and other intangible property. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 13, 24-25.) Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement appears only to address issues involving certain items of furniture that ostensibly were supposed to be included with the sale of the Home to Wang. (SSUMF 3.) Plaintiffs’ reply further supports this conclusion by contending that there are discrepancies as to what Wang claims is missing. (Reply, 2:10-3:10.) Thus, there are triable issues of material fact as to what specific property Wang allegedly converted.

Third, even assuming there was a clear identification of all the personal property purportedly at issue, Plaintiffs’ proffered undisputed material facts and the evidence cited in support thereof do not establish that Plaintiffs had ownership or possession of any of it. (See SSUMF 1-9.) If anything, Plaintiffs’ own evidence creates a triable issue of material as to whether Wang had an agreement to purchase certain pieces of furniture for $185,000. (See SSUMF 3.)

Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs failed to meet their moving burden, and the Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment.

MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION – Legal Standard
For each claim as framed by the cross-complaint, the cross-defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 389.)

Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)

PRELIMINARY ISSUES
“If summary adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (b).) The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ separate statement fails to quote verbatim the issue identified in the notice of Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication. The Court again admonishes Plaintiffs to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward.

Plaintiffs also attach an additional exhibit to their reply papers. As noted above, the Court declines to consider such evidence to the extent it is not responsive to issue raised in the opposing party’s opposition and otherwise constitutes new evidence. (Jay, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1537-1538.) Moreover, this Court made its own rulings on the evidentiary objections raised with the subject motions.

OBJECTIONS
The Court rules as follows on Wang’s evidentiary objections:
1.	With respect to Plaintiff Troy Trang’s declaration, the Court OVERRULES Wang’s objections to numbers 1 and 2.
2.	With respect to Plaintiff Ling Yin’s declaration, the Court OVERRULES Wang’s objections to numbers 1 and 2.

DISCUSSION
The Court incorporates by reference its earlier recitation of the elements of a claim for conversion. (Regent All. Ltd., supra, 231 Cal.App.4th at p. 1181.)

Plaintiffs move for summary adjudication as to Wang’s second cause of action for conversion in the FACC on the grounds that no triable issue of material fact exists because Wang fails to establish one or more of the elements of her claim against Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication is largely the same as Plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment addressed above. Plaintiffs proffer the following undisputed material facts:

1.	The sale of the real estate on 2829 Wagon Train Lane, Diamond Bar, CA 91765 (“Home”) closed escrow on November 26, 2018. (SSUMF 1.)
2.	In addition to purchasing the real estate, Wang claims to have purchased $185,000 worth of personal property identified in the furniture inventory lists from the Home. (SSUMF 2.)
3.	Wang asserts that she paid $185,000 to Yan Hsing Yin for the purchase of the properties identified in the furniture lists attached as “Exhibit 3”. (SSUMF 3.)
4.	During the deposition, the Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) from Bank of America, Wang’s bank, was unable to confirm Yan Hsing Yin as the recipient of the $185,000 payment for the personal property purchase. (SSUMF 4.)

The Court again finds that Plaintiffs’ proffered undisputed material facts and the evidence cited in support thereof fail to establish the absence of a triable issue of material fact. First, none of these statements or the evidence cited in support thereof show that: (1) Wang lacked ownership or possession of the pieces of furniture at issue; (2) Plaintiffs did not act in a manner inconsistent with Wang’s rights in connection with the pieces of furniture at issue; and (3) that Wang was not damaged in connection with this dispute. If anything, Plaintiffs’ evidence supports the inference that Wang did own the furniture at issue, as they identify pieces of furniture, the amount of $185,000, and the parties’ signatures on the inventory lists, among other things. (See Exhibits 3 and 4 attached to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement.)

Moreover, the deposition of the PMQ for Bank of America does not prove Wang never paid the $185,000. (See Exhibit 5 attached to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement.) At most, it only shows that Bank of America cannot confirm Yan Hsing Yin received that money, which does not unambiguously establish that it was never paid or received as allegedly agreed. (See Id., 17:2-16, 18:13-15.) Plaintiffs otherwise failed to provide any evidence showing that they did not take the furniture from Wang as alleged in the FACC or that Wang was not damaged as a result. (See FACC, ¶¶ 14, 21.)

There are certainly triable issues of material fact as to the ownership of the subject furniture, whether Wang paid for the furniture and to whom, and whether Plaintiffs disposed of the subject furniture.

Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants failed to meet their moving burden, and the Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication.

CONCLUSION
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment on the Third Amended Complaint.

The Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication on the First Amended Cross-Complaint.

Defendant Wang is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.

[1] Yan Hsing Lin has been named but has not otherwise appeared in this action.
