 Case Number:  21PSCV00740    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  CA Flooring Wholesalers Inc v. RDD Freight Int’l (LA) Inc., et al.

Plaintiff's Counsel's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel

TENTATIVE RULING
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is DENIED without prejudice.

Plaintiff's Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of service of same within five calendar days.

BACKGROUND
This is a breach of contract action. On September 8, 2021, Plaintiff CA Flooring Wholesalers Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants RDD Freight Int’l (LA) Inc., Lang Zhang (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, conversion, trespass to chattel, replevin, bailment, and unfair business practices.

On September 5, 2023, Connor M. Trafton of Keesal, Young & Logan, counsel for Plaintiff, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed.

LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.)

An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d).)

DISCUSSION
Connor M. Trafton of Keesal, Young & Logan (Counsel), seeks to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends Plaintiff is in the process of retaining new counsel, but has not done so yet. (Trafton Decl., ¶ 2.)[1] 

The Court does not find this to be sufficient grounds for permitting withdrawal. Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw from representation include the client’s conduct that “renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is also grounds for allowing the attorney to withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) Counsel has not provided evidence of any such breakdown or conduct from Plaintiff that renders it unreasonably difficult for Counsel to carry out the representation effectively. While Plaintiff may be looking to retain new counsel, that does not necessarily render Counsel unable to continue representation until a substitution has been made.

Moreover, although Counsel has provided the application, declaration, and proposed order on Judicial Counsel forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 per California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subdivisions (a) and (e), the declaration and proposed order are incomplete and otherwise defective. The declaration does not show how Counsel purportedly confirmed Plaintiff’s address as being current within 30 days of filing the motion. (Trafton Decl., ¶ 3, subd. (b).) Rather, it only provides that service was also made by email at Plaintiff’s email address. (Id.) The declaration also fails to provide all future hearing dates, and the information for the future date it has provided is incorrect. (Id., ¶¶ 4-6.). The proposed order is almost completely left blank as well.

Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion without prejudice.

CONCLUSION
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is DENIED without prejudice.

Plaintiff's Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of service of same within five calendar days.

[1] The Court also notes that Counsel cites to an outdated provision of the California Rules of Professional Conduct, i.e., Rule 3-700(c).