 Case Number:  22STCV25073    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25073




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff to Attend an Additional Independent Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant AK Investment Property, LLC 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Yolanda Candelario Macario  



 
 
MOTION
 
            On August 3, 2022, Plaintiff
Yolanda Candelario Macario (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint, alleging injuries after
a slip and fall. 
 
            Defendant AK Investment Property,
LLC (“Defendant”) now moves to compel Plaintiff to submit to a second
independent medical examination with Dr. Paul Kaloostian, a neurosurgeon.
Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in
which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may
demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Roy A. Koletsky, Defendant’s counsel, states the
following: “I have attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s attorney regarding
the need for the second examination. However, Plaintiff eventually denied this
request.” (Koletsky Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff has alleged the following
injuries due to her slip and fall: left patella fracture, left knee pain, left
knee swelling, low back, left leg, right leg, neck, bilateral hip pain, mid
back, right elbow, right shoulder, and left shoulder pain. Plaintiff was
previously examined by Dr. Ronald S. Kvitne, an orthopedic surgeon, on November
29, 2023. 
 
            On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff
underwent cervical fusion surgery. As a result, Defendant seeks to have
Plaintiff examined by Dr. Paul Kaloostian, a neurosurgeon, on
September 10, 2024. Defendant argues that Plaintiff previously only attributed her
knee injury to the fall. Additionally, it argues that the cervical fusion
surgery requires a specialty examination that would not be covered in an
orthopedic exam. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
she produced all her medical records on February 22, 2023, which included
cervical issues. Plaintiff also contends her neck was included in the
examination notice for Dr. Kvitne. (Bayona Decl., Exh. A.) Additionally, Dr.
Kvitne’s report included a discussion of her spine injuries. (Id., Exh.
B.) As a result, Plaintiff contends the proposed examination will involve tests
that were already performed at the previous examination. 
 
            In reply, Defendant does not dispute
that Dr. Kvitne examined Plaintiff’s neck, but contends the examination focused
more on Plaintiff’s orthopedic injuries. Defendant argues the surgery was a
substantial medical procedure which affects Plaintiff’s physical status. 
 
            Defendant asserts the proposed
examination will contain the following tests: 
 
“(1) Motor exam, sensory exam, cerebellar exam, gait testing, pinch
testing; (2) A neurological examination consisting of cranial nerve testing,
mental status, strength testing, measurement of biceps and calves, and range of
motion testing. Reflex testing will be performed; palpation of hips, SI joints,
neck, mid back, and low back; (3) A medical history including pain history may
be taken. X-rays will not be taken.” 
(Motion, 5.)
 
            Defendant has
established good cause for the examination. Dr. Kaloostian’s specialty as a
neurological surgeon is different from Dr. Kvitne’s as an orthopedic surgeon.
Dr. Kaloostian’s examination will be limited to providing an opinion regarding
the cervical fusion surgery, which occurred after Dr. Kvitne’s examination.[1]
Although Dr. Kvitne’s physical examination included an examination of the
cervical spine, the report does not discuss a cervical fusion surgery. However,
the Court agrees that Dr. Kaloostian is not to examine Plaintiff beyond what is
necessary to opine as to the cervical fusion surgery.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Attend an Additional Independent Medical
Examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall appear for examination within 30 days
at a mutually agreeable date and time.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


