 Case Number:  23STCV17379    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV17379




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition Testimony from Defendant Apro. LLC Employees




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Charron Reynolds 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  APRO LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Charron Reynolds (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel the deposition of Defendant APRO
LLC’s (“Defendant”) employees: Jennifer Short, Charlie Choomngen, and Dorena
Gomez. Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions against Defendant’s counsel.
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party . . . ,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿ 
¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions
against a party, which are based on the party’s misuse of the discovery
process, monetary sanctions against the party’s attorney require a finding the
‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the
attorney's actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an
attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,”
the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery
abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an
attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the
burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend
that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni,
at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿¿ 
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Erich Tomkinson, Plaintiff’s counsel, states that
following the employees’ non-appearances, he sent a meet and confer to
Defendant on July 17, 2024, but received no response. (Tomkinson Decl. ¶ 15.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff began contacting Defendant to schedule the depositions of Defendant’s
three employees (Jennifer Short, Charlie Choomngen, and Dorena Gomez) in May
2024. (Tomkinson Decl. ¶ 3.) On May 22, 2024, Defendant stated that Charlie
Choomngen, and Dorena Gomez were no longer employed, but that they were “trying
to connect with them.” (Id. ¶ 5.) On June 7, 2024, Defendant’s counsel
represented that they were working to schedule the depositions. (Id. ¶
9.) Plaintiff emailed on June 17, 2024 asking for an update, but received no
response. After hearing no response, Plaintiff noticed the depositions on June
18, 2024, setting them for July 10 and July 11, 2024. No objections were
served. None of the deponent employees appeared for their depositions and
Plaintiff obtained certificates of non-appearance. (Id. ¶ 13-14, Exh. L,
M.)
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts that Dorena Gomez and Charlie
Choomngen are no longer employees, and thus Defendant has no authority to
produce them for deposition. Defendant argues it never promised to produce them
for deposition but was only trying to establish contact as a courtesy to
Plaintiff. (Opp., 4.) Defendant contends that Jennifer Short is still an
employee but is presently in Colorado on a long-term work assignment and will
return to California after September 2024. Defendant asserts it will schedule
Short’s deposition once she returns to California. (Opp., 2.) Defendant also
argues sanctions should not be imposed since the lapse in communication in late
May 2024 to June 2024 was caused by this case being transferred to the current
handling attorney in July 2024. (Lieberthal Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant’s counsel
failed to appear at the 10:00 a.m. July 10, 2024 deposition due to a
calendaring error when the file was transferred. (Id. ¶ 4.)
Nevertheless, upon learning of the mistake, he appeared for the 2:00 p.m.
deposition.  Additionally, Defendant’s
counsel states that he met and conferred at the July 11, 2024 deposition and
informed Plaintiff he was unsuccessful in trying to contact Charlie Choomngen,
and Dorena Gomez. (Id. ¶ 11.) 
 
            In reply, Plaintiff provides no
authority for the Court to compel the depositions of non-party witnesses who
are no longer employed by Defendant. Therefore, the motion to compel the
depositions of Charlie Choomngen, and Dorena Gomez is denied. 
 
The parties should promptly meet and confer to discuss Defendant’s
previous efforts to contact Charlie Choomngen and Dorena Gomez, and discuss how
the parties should move forward.[1] 
 
Turning to the deposition of Jennifer Short, who is a current
employee, it is undisputed that no objection was served for the July 11, 2024
deposition. Additionally, Defendant has not asserted that it provided
alternative dates for Short’s deposition, but only that she will return to
California after September 2024. Seeing as it is the end of September, and
given there were no objections served, the motion to compel the deposition of
Jennifer Short is granted.
 
In the Notice of Motion, Plaintiff seeks $3,285 in monetary sanctions
against Defendant’s counsel only, representing a $350 hourly rate and the $1,535
for the certificates of non-appearance. (Tomkinson Decl., Exh. N.) However,
because the evidence does not show that Defendant’s counsel advised the conduct
claimed, but rather that he failed to appear or respond due to a calendaring
error from the transfer of this case file, the request for sanctions is denied.

 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to Compel Deposition Testimony from Defendant Apro. LLC Employees is GRANTED
in part. Defendant’s employee Jennifer Short shall appear within 30 days’
notice of this order for a deposition, or on another date mutually agreeable to
the parties.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


