 Case Number:  21STCV41549    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV41549




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication;
  alternatively, to Reclassify this Action




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants W3D, Inc. dba LA Canada Pet
  Clinic and Woody Walker, DVM




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Julie N. Nong



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts in Support 
3.     Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
4.     Declaration of Stephen Ettinger D.V.M. in
Support
5.     Declaration of Lauren E. Becker in Support
6.     Compendium of Evidence
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.     Plaintiff’s Separate Statement 
3.     Plaintiff’s Objection to Declaration of
Stephen Ettinger 
4.     Declaration of Julie Nong 
5.     Declaration of McGee Leonard, DVM 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     Defendants’ Reply
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 10, 2021,
Plaintiff Julie N. Nong, in pro per (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against La
Canada Pet Clinic, Woody Walker, DVM, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence and
trespass to chattels. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that her pet
dog died while being treated in Defendants’ clinic. Specifically, Plaintiff
alleges that she brought the dog, “TaTa”, into the clinic on November 9, 2020 because
she vomited and had not eaten since Sunday. (Complaint ¶ 8.) The clinic held
TaTa for 24/7 care. On that first day, TaTa tested negative for Parvo disease.
However, on November 13, 2020, Plaintiff received a call that the dog had died
and tested positive for Parvo. (Id. ¶ 12.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants negligently failed to detect and properly treat her dog. (Complaint
¶ 15.) She also alleges that “[f]rom November 9 to November 13, Defendants
intentionally and substantially damaged Plaintiff's eight week Maltipoo”
without her consent. (Id. ¶ 19-20.) 
 
Defendants W3D, Inc. dba LA Canada Pet Clinic and Woody Walker, DVM
(“Defendants”) now move for summary judgment, or adjudication, arguing that (1)
the negligence cause of action fails since their conduct fell within the
standard of care and (2) the trespass to chattels cause of action fails since
Plaintiff consented to her dog’s treatment. Alternatively, Defendants also move
to reclassify this action from unlimited civil jurisdiction to limited civil. 
 
Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying
fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the
applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.               
Negligence 
 
“In medical malpractice cases, the established
rule is that a doctor must exercise the degree of skill or care usual in the
profession, and will not be held liable for untoward consequences in the
absence of a want of such reasonable care and skill. [Citations.] We find that
this standard applies to veterinary malpractice cases, as well. Veterinarians,
like medical doctors, are licensed health care providers . . . and veterinary
malpractice cases are treated like medical malpractice cases for purposes of
statute of limitations. [Citations.] Further, out-of-state courts that have
considered the question have held that standards governing medical malpractice
actions control in veterinary malpractice cases.” (Williamson v. Prida
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1417, 1424-25.) 
 
“To establish a veterinarian malpractice
claim, a plaintiff is required to present expert testimony establishing the
appropriate standard of care in the relevant community. Standard of care is a
matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue
in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony [citations].
. . . This is because [t]he standard of care in a [veterinarian] malpractice
case requires the [veterinarian] exercise in diagnosis and treatment that
reasonable degree of skill, knowledge and care ordinarily possessed and
exercised by members of the [veterinary] medical profession under similar
circumstances.” (Quigley v. McClellan (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1283.) 
 
“Civil Code section 1714, subdivision (a) establishes the
general duty of each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable
care for the safety of others. When applied to medical professionals, this duty
of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.” (Flores v. Liu
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].) To prevail on a claim for
negligence against a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that:
(1) a medical professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence
that members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of
that duty; (3) an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the breach of that duty. (Banerian v.
O’Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.) 
 
“[T]he legal standard of care required by doctors is the
standard of practice required by their own profession. The courts require only
that physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that
reasonable degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and
exercised by members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.
Thus, liability is not found, and the label of malpractice is not placed upon a
physician's actions, unless some deviation by the physician from the standard
of care that his peers consider appropriate in the situation under review is
proven.” (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned
up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally the only admissible and
relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has breached the standard
of care. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410 [“ ‘The standard
of care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony (citations),
unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the
common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) As the Court of Appeal has held, in
reversing summary judgments for medical professionals: “The standard of care
against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly
within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice
action and can only be proved by their testimony. California courts have
incorporated the expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary
judgment in medical malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary
judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell
within the community standard of care, defendant is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”
(Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)
Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all favorable inferences that may
reasonably be derived from” an expert’s declaration which must be liberally
construed. (See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.) 
 
            Here,
Defendants set forth the following facts: 
 
-       
On
November 9, 2020, Ta Ta presented to La Cañada Pet Clinic with diarrhea,
vomiting, and no appetite. (UMF 2.) 
-       
On
November 9, 2020, Dr. Woody Walker, DVM conducted an office exam including an
IDEXX Comprehensive Fecal Panel, and a Snap Test for Parvovirus. (UMF 3.) 
-       
Ta
Ta’s Snap Test for Parvovirus came back negative which is not unusual during
the severe initial phase of the disease. (UMF 4.) 
-       
Dr.
Woody Walker called the plaintiff on November 9, 2020 after the Snap Test for
Parvovirus came back and communicated to the plaintiff a guarded prognosis. (UMF
5.) 
-       
Ta
Ta remained at La Cañada Pet Clinic overnight and Dr. Woody Walker treated Ta
Ta for a viral enteritis, diarrhea, and vomiting. (UMF 6.) 
-       
While
at La Cañada Pet Clinic Ta Ta received IV fluids and medication. (UMF 7.) 
-       
On
November 12, 2020 Ta Ta started seizing and had some clear foamy liquid in her
mouth.  Ta Ta was then intubated and
provided O2.  Ta Ta was tube fed with a
teaspoon of Karo Syrup diluted in water. Ta Ta also received IV fluids at a
sufficient rate to rehydrate her but not enough to overload her small
circulatory system. (UMF 8.) 
-       
On
November 12, 2020 Ta Ta was retested for Parvovirus and the results came back
positive. This was a usual recheck since many puppies are still negative at the
time of the first test but quickly turn positive 48+/- hours later confirming
the diagnosis of severe canine parvo viral disease. Note that while supportive
therapy was and still is the treatment for this disease there is no specific
antiviral medication available to treat it. (UMF 9.) 
-       
When
Ta Ta was first tested for Parvovirus on November 9, 2020, it was very likely
that she was not shedding enough of the virus for the test. (UMF 15.)
-       
If
a dog is infected with the Parvovirus, the intubation period would last
anywhere from three to seven days before the onset of symptoms.  This would explain why Ta Ta would initially
test negative, then later test positive when tested a second time. (UMF 16.) 
-       
The
care and treatment provided by Dr. Woody Walker and La Cañada Pet Clinic for Ta
Ta’s symptoms of diarrhea, vomiting, and loss of appetite, met the applicable
standard of care. (UMF 17.) 
-       
Nothing
any of the staff at La Cañada Pet Clinic did or failed to do caused Ta Ta’s
death or demise.  (UMF 19.) 
 
Defendants have met their burden by setting
forth expert testimony that they did not fall below the standard of care and
did not cause the death of Plaintiff’s dog. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff
sets forth the following facts: 
 
-       
On
November 9, 2020, Defendant Walker tested Ta Ta for canine parvovirus, a highly
contagious and often fatal virus, by using an inhouse fecal test.  Additional fecal testing performed that day
showed Ta Ta was positive for both Giardia and Cystoisospora, both contagious
intestinal parasites. (PAMF 9.) 
-       
Dr.
Ettinger opines that Giardia is a “serious parasitic disease;” however Dr.
Walker did not treat Ta Ta for Giardia or Cystoisospora. (PAMF 10.) 
-       
Ta
Ta continued to be under Defendants’ care but there’s no record of what
treatment if anything was provided to her for November 10, 2020. (PAMF 11.) 
-       
Other
than weighing Ta Ta to be 2.19 pounds, there’s neither documentation nor record
regarding what treatment was provided to Ta Ta or if anything at all for
November 11, 2020. (PAMF 12.) 
-       
Ta
Ta’s intestinal parasites should have been treated with appropriate
medications, such as fenbendazole and sulfadimethoxine.  Cystoisopora, for example, may cause
“diarrhea with weight loss, dehydration… anorexia, vomiting, and
depression.  Death is a potential
outcome.” (PAMF 16.) 
-       
Intestinal
parasites such as Giardia and Cystoisospora are common comorbidities in puppies
with parvovirus because the virus causes suppression of the immune system and
damages the integrity of the intestinal tract. (PAMF 17.) 
-       
The
hazard of Ta Ta’s intestinal parasites could have caused profound illness
without any concurrent infections and would more likely than not exacerbate the
symptoms of parvoviral enteritis.  (PAMF
19.)
-       
Not
treating the intestinal parasites created a dangerous condition that
unreasonably increased the risk of fatal injury. (PAMF 20.) 
-       
Defendants
failed to meet the minimum standard of veterinary medical care by neglecting to
treat Ta Ta’s intestinal parasites creating a dangerous condition which caused
Ta Ta’s death. (PAMF 21.) 
 
Plaintiff has met her burden to establish a
triable issue of fact, by producing conflicting expert testimony regarding the
standard of care and whether Defendants’ failure to treat Plaintiff’s dog on
the intestinal parasites led to its death. (Leonard Decl. ¶ 11.) 
As a result, the motion for summary
adjudication as to the negligence cause of action is denied. 
 
II.            
Trespass to Chattels 
 
“Under
California law, trespass to chattels lies where an intentional
interference with the possession of personal property has proximately caused
injury.”  (Jamgotchian v. Slender (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384,
1401.) “ ‘Though not amounting to conversion,’ in an action for trespass
to chattels ‘the defendant's interference must . . . have caused some injury to
the chattel or to the plaintiff's rights in it.’ ([Citation]; see Plotnik v.
Meihaus (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1605, 1606–1608, 146 Cal.Rptr.3d 585 (Plotnik)
[owner of dog could sue for trespass to chattels for the intentional striking
of the dog with a bat]; Jamgotchian v. Slender (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th
1384, 1400–1402, 89 Cal.Rptr.3d 122 (Jamgotchian) [owner of horse
injured in race could sue for trespass to chattels based upon track steward's
refusal to remove the horse from the race].)” (Berry v. Frazier (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1271.) 
 
Defendants argue
this cause of action fails since Plaintiff consented to allow her dog to be
treated at the clinic. However, Defendants provide no further argument or
authority showing how this provides a complete defense, as Plaintiff has
presented evidence creating a triable issue of fact regarding the standard of
care provided, resulting in the dog’s death, to which Plaintiff did not consent.
 
Lastly, the
Court will address Defendants alternative motion to reclassify this case to
limited civil jurisdiction.
 
III.          
Motion to Reclassify 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
403.040 states: 
“(a) The plaintiff,
cross-complainant, or petitioner may file a motion for reclassification within
the time allowed for that party to amend the initial pleading. The defendant or
cross-defendant may file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed
for that party to respond to the initial pleading. The court, on its own
motion, may reclassify a case at any time. A motion for reclassification does
not extend the moving party's time to amend or answer or otherwise respond. The
court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification,
regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the case has been classified in an
incorrect jurisdictional classification. 
(b) If a party files a motion for
reclassification after the time for that party to amend that party's initial
pleading or to respond to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial
pleading, the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification
only if both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
(1) The case is incorrectly
classified. 
(2) The moving party shows good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.”  
 
For a limited civil case, “[t]he
amount in controversy does not exceed thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000).
As used in this section, ‘amount in controversy’ means the amount of the
demand, or the recovery sought, or the value of the property, or the amount of
the lien, that is in controversy in the action, exclusive of attorneys' fees,
interest, and costs.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 85(a).)[1]
 
In Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, the California Supreme Court held “a matter may be
transferred when: (1) the absence of jurisdiction is apparent before trial from
the complaint, petition, or related documents, or (2) during the course of
pretrial litigation, it becomes clear that the matter will necessarily result
in a verdict below the superior court jurisdictional amount and the court
affords the parties an opportunity to contest the transfer.” (Walker, supra,
53 Cal.3d at 262.) A matter may be reclassified from unlimited to limited
only if it appears to a legal certainty that the plaintiff's damages will
necessarily be less than $25,000. (Walker, supra, 53
Cal.3d at 262.) If there is a possibility that the damages will exceed
$25,000.00, the case cannot be transferred to limited. (Ibid.) This high
standard is appropriate in light of “the circumscribed procedures and recovery
available in the limited civil courts.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 266, 278.)¿¿¿ 
The test is whether lack of jurisdiction is clear or
virtually unattainable. (Walker, supra, 53 Cal.3d at 269.) This
standard involves an evaluation of the amount fairly in controversy, not an
adjudication of the merits of the claim, and requires a “high level of
certainty that [the] damage award will not exceed $25,000.” (Id.) The
trial court may believe it highly unlikely that plaintiff will recover the
amount demanded, but this is not enough to defeat jurisdiction, unless it
appears to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount of the
demand. (Id. at 270.) 
In deciding whether a matter should be transferred, a trial
court must look beyond the pleadings but not so far as to trespass into the
province of the trier of fact. Pain and suffering are not subject to precise
measurement by any scale, and their translation into money damages is
peculiarly the function of the trier of the fact. (Maldonado v. Superior
Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 397, 401.) 
 
As
an initial matter, Plaintiff appears to argue that the Court will lose its
jurisdiction to rule on the instant summary judgment motion if the case is
reclassified to limited civil. (Opp., 12.) However, Plaintiff provides no
authority in support. On the contrary, “[t]he classification of a civil case as
limited or unlimited no longer affects the subject matter jurisdiction of the
superior court.” (Stratton v. Beck (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 483, 492.)
Therefore, the Court will consider the motion. 
 
Here,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has only claimed $5,350 in damages. Plaintiff
does not dispute this value as her special damages. However, she argues that the
subject dog was the first puppy and gift to her daughter. She also argues she
is unable to adopt another dog for the rest of her life, and the death caused
mental anguish and emotional distress. As a result, Plaintiff argues these
damages must be calculated by a jury and could exceed $25,000. However, the
Court notes that the limit for limited civil cases is now $35,000. Neither
party addresses this. Moreover, neither party addresses the timeliness of the
request.
 
In
reply, Defendants argue that emotional distress damages are not recoverable
based on veterinary malpractice. (Reply, 12; McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 1502, 1514 [“Regardless of how foreseeable a pet owner's emotional
distress may be in losing a beloved animal, we discern no basis in policy or
reason to impose a duty on a veterinarian to avoid causing emotional distress
to the owner of the animal being treated, while not imposing such a duty on a
doctor to the parents of a child receiving treatment.”].) However, the Court
notes that Plaintiff’s trespass to chattels cause of action has survived. 
 
In
light of the $35,000 threshold for unlimited civil cases, the Court continues
the motion to reclassify to October 8, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. The parties may
file supplemental briefing by October 4, 2024. Courtesy copies of any
supplemental briefing must be provided to Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse by 4:00 p.m.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants W3D, Inc. dba LA Canada
Pet Clinic and Woody Walker, DVM motion for summary judgment/adjudication;
alternatively, to Reclassify this Action is DENIED.
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


