 Case Number:  22SMCV01860    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 28, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01860




MOTIONS


Motions to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTIES


William W. Steckbauer and Sean A. Topp of Hill, Farrer
  & Burrill, LLP




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Morteza Farzadmehr; Shahla Farzadmehr Delijani;
  and Morteza Farzadmehr as Trustee of Progressive Trust



 
MOTIONS
 
            William W. Steckbauer and Sean A
Topp of Hill of Farrer & Burrill, LLP (“Counsel”), counsel for Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Morteza Farzadmehr, Shahla Farzadmehr Delijani, and
Morteza Farzadmehr as Trustee of Progressive Trust (collectively, “Defendants”)
move to be relived as Counsel for Defendants, citing a “breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship.”  
 
            Defendants oppose the motions and
Counsel have replied.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in the
case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)          
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed three sets of forms
MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 and a proof of service – as to each Defendant.  The attorney declarations (MC-052) indicate
that a motion was filed instead of filing a consent because “There has been a
breakdown of the attorney-client relationship which makes it impossible to
continue our representation of defendants/cross-complainants and the client, by
other conduct, has rendered it unreasonably difficult to carry out the
representation of defendants/cross-complainants effectively.”  Counsel cites the Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).  Therefore, the
Court finds that the motions are substantively proper.
 
            The proofs of service indicate that
the clients were served via Federal Express and the other parties to the action
were served via mail.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013, subdivision (c) describes the process for service by
express mail, and outlines the procedures for service by overnight delivery via
express service carrier.  Thus, service
by Federal Express, as contemplated by Section 1013 is a form of service by
mail.  Thus, all parties were properly
served by mail, in compliance with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).  Further, paragraph 3(b) of the attorney
declaration (MC-052) confirms that the clients’ last known mailing addresses have
been confirmed within the past 30 days and are current, in conformance with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1)(A).  Therefore, the motions are procedurally
proper.
 
            Defendants do not dispute any of the
above, but instead oppose the motions to be Relieved as Counsel on the basis
that Counsel’s withdrawal so close to trial will highly prejudice them, if the
trial is not continued so that new counsel can get up to speed.  (See Declaration of Shahla Farzadmehr, ¶¶
3-5.)  
 
            But the Court notes that the trial
is set for December 4, 2023 which provides ample time for any new counsel to
prepare for the final status conference and trial.  Further the Court notes Defendants are within
their right to seek to continue the trial should they determine if further time
is needed for new counsel to become familiar with the matter.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
Motions to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
Counsel must serve the signed orders (forms MC-053), which shall
include information about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any
party, or ordered by the Court, on Defendants and all other parties who have
appeared in the action, within 10 days of the date of this Order, and file a
proof of service of such.  Counsel will
remain the attorney of record for Defendants until Counsel files the requisite
proof of service.  (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(e).)  
 
 
 
DATED:  September 28, 2023                       ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 