 Case Number:  23SMCV01722    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  28, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01722




MOTION


Motion
  to Serve Defendant Amera Enterprises, LLC via the California Secretary of
  State




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Franklyn Ardon Cruz




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)
  



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff
Franklyn Ardon Cruz (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order to serve Defendant Amera
Enterprises, LLC (“Amera”) via the California Secretary of State.  The motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Corporations Code section 1702, subdivision (a) provides:
 
If an agent for the purpose of
service of process has resigned and has not been replaced or if the agent designated
cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for
personally delivering the process, or if no agent has been designated, and it
is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court that process against a
domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the
designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision
(a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a),
(b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service be
made upon the corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or
to any person employed in the Secretary of State's office in the capacity of
assistant or deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served,
together with a copy of the order authorizing such service. 


(Corp.
Code, § 1702, subd. (a).)  Similarly,
Corporations Code section 2011, subdivision (b) provides:
 
Summons or other process
against [a dissolved] corporation may be served by delivering a copy thereof to
an officer, director, or person having charge of its assets or, if no
such person can be found, to any agent upon whom process might be served at the
time of dissolution. If none of those persons can be found with due diligence
and it is so shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court, then the
court may make an order that summons or other process be served upon the
dissolved corporation by personally delivering a copy thereof, together with a
copy of the order, to the Secretary of State or an assistant or deputy
secretary of state. 


(Corp.
Code, § 2011, subd. (b).)
 


 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff has provided an attorney declaration indicating that Amera
has been in suspension with the Franchise Tax Board since October 1, 2020.  (Torres Decl. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff’s process server attempted to serve
Amera’s agent for service of process at the address registered with the
California Secretary of State on May 3, 2023. 
But when the process server arrived at the designated address, he was
told Amera was no longer at that address and had been gone for some time.  (Id. at ¶¶ 4-5.)  The process server took photographs, which
showed there was no signage for Amera, as there was for other current
businesses at the location.  (Exhibit 1
to Torres Decl.)
 
Plaintiff located a second address for Grey D. Quintana (“Quintana”), Amera’s
agent for service of process, but when the process server attempted to serve
the summons and complaint at the address, the current resident informed the
process server that Quintana was not a resident and he or she did not know
Quintana’s current address.  (Torres Decl.
¶¶ 6-8.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Having demonstrated reasonable
diligence in attempting to serve Amera and Amera’s agent for service of process
without success, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to serve Amera via the
California Secretary of State.  Plaintiff
shall lodge a proposed order in conformance with the Court’s ruling on or
before October 12, 2023.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
 
DATED:  September 28, 2023                       ___________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court