  Case Number:  21SMCV01223    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  28, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV01223




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Public Storage, a Maryland REIT (Erroneously Sued and served as Public
  Storage Inc.); PS LPT Properties Investors; Public Storage Business Parks;
  and PS Business Parks, L.P.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Randy Zasloff



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of
     Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of Aysia Williams in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Craig Morrow in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Joseph Z. Mkyran in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Request
     for Judicial Notice in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Notice
     of Lodgment in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication [1]
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum
     in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Evidence
     (Declaration of Randy Zasloff) in Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication
Notice
     of Lodgment of Exhibits in Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication [2]
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication

                     
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 
Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement
Evidentiary
     Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence offered in Opposition to Motion for
     Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Randy Zasloff (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Public Storage
Inc.; PS LPT Properties Investors; Public Storage Business Parks; and PS
Business Parks, L.P., for Breach of Contract and Negligence in connection with
a storage unit Plaintiff alleges he rented from Defendants.  (See Fourth Amended Complaint filed November
4, 2022.)  
 
Defendants Public Storage, a Maryland REIT (erroneously Sued and
served as Public Storage Inc.); PS LPT Properties Investors; Public Storage
Business Parks; and PS Business Parks, L.P. (collectively, “Defendants”) move
for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication on the
following five issues:
 
1.     
Whether the release and waiver provision of the
applicable lease/rent agreement bars liability in this case;
 
2.     
Whether Plaintiff’s causes of action for breach of
contract and negligence are time-barred;
 
3.     
Whether Plaintiff’s claims for damages over $5,000 are
waived by written agreement;
 
4.     
Whether Plaintiff’s claims were filed and litigated in
the wrong forum; and
 
5.     
Whether the Fourth Amended Complaint fails to state a
cause of action or basis for Plaintiff to sue.
 
Plaintiff has opposed the Motion and Defendants
have replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS –SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
EVIDENCE
 
A.    DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request the Court
take judicial notice of the fact “[t]hat Plaintiff filed his original Complaint
in this action on July 20, 2021 as reflected in the Court’s records.”  Plaintiff has not objected to Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the original complaint is part of the Court’s record for this
case, the Court may take judicial notice of it and the date it was filed.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the original complaint was filed in
this matter on July 20, 2021 as a court record, but not the truth of the
allegations contained therein.
 
B.     DEFENDANTS’ OBJECTIONS TO PLAINTIFF’S
EVIDENCE
            
            Defendants
object to paragraphs two through ten of the ten-paragraph declaration of Randy
Zasloff submitted in support of the Opposition to the Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication on the basis that the declaration is not signed under
penalty of perjury.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section
2015.5 provides:
 
Whenever, under any law of this state or under any rule, regulation,
order or requirement made pursuant to the law of this state, any matter is
required or permitted to be supported, evidenced, established, or proved by the
sworn statement, declaration, verification, certificate, oath, or affidavit, in
writing of the person making the same (other than a deposition, or an oath of
office, or an oath required to be taken before a specified official other than
a notary public), such matter may with like force and effect be supported,
evidenced, established or proved by the unsworn statement, declaration,
verification, or certificate, in writing of such person which recites that it
is certified or declared by him or her to be true under penalty of perjury, is
subscribed by him or her, and (1), if executed within this state, states the
date and place of execution, or (2), if executed at any place, within or
without this state, states the date of execution and that it is so certified or
declared under the laws of the State of California. The certification or
declaration may be in substantially the following form:
 
(a) If executed within this state:
 
“I certify (or declare) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is
true and correct”:
_____________ _________
(Date and Place)(Signature)
 
(b) If executed at any place, within or
without this state:
 
“I certify (or declare) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
State of California that the foregoing is true and correct”:
_____________ _________
(Date)(Signature)
 
A declaration that is not signed under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California as required by Section
2015.5 “has no evidentiary value” and the court need not consider it.  (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 198, 217.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
declaration submitted in support of the Opposition to the Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication does not contain language that the declarant certifies or
declares under penalty of perjury that the contents of the declaration are true
and correct under the laws of the State of California.  Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’
objections to the Zasloff declaration. 
The Court cannot consider Plaintiff’s declaration in connection with
this motion. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.    LEASE AGREEMENT RELEASE AND WAIVER
 
1.      Defendants’ Evidence
 
Defendants have argued that
the lease agreement bars their liability. 
In support, Defendants have produced the signed (and initialed) lease
agreement which contains the following provisions:
 
7. LIMITATION OF OWNER’S LIABILITY; INDEMNITY. Owner
and Owner’s Agents will have no responsibility to Occupant or to any other
person for any loss, liability, claim, expense, damage to property or injury to
persons (“Loss”) from any cause, including without limitation, Owner’s and
Owner’s Agent’s active or passive acts, omissions, negligence or conversion,
unless the Loss is directly caused by Owner’s fraud, willful injury or willful
violation of law. Occupant shall indemnify and hold Owner and Owner’s Agents
harmless from any loss incurred by Owner and Owner’s Agents in any way arising
out of Occupant’s use of the Premises or the Property including, but not
limited to, claims of injury or loss by Occupant’s visitors or invitees.
Occupant agrees that Owner’s and Owner’s Agents’ total responsibility for any
Loss from any cause whatsoever will not exceed a total of $5,000. By
INITIALING HERE ___, Occupant acknowledges that he understands and agrees to
the provisions of this paragraph. (UMF 5) (emphasis original.)
 
6. INSURANCE; RELEASE OF LIABILITY.  ALL PERSONAL PROPERTY IS STORED BY OCCUPANT
AT OCCUPANT’S SOLE RISK. INSURANCE IS OCCUPANT’S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY. OCCUPANT
UNDERSTANDS THAT OWNER WILL NOT INSURE OCCUPANT’S PERSONAL PROPERTY AND THAT
OCCUPANT IS OBLIGATED UNDER THE TERMS OF HIS LEASE/RENTAL AGREEMENT TO INSURE
HIS OWN GOODS […] Owner and Owner’s agents, affiliates, authorized
representative and employees (“Owner’s Agents”) will not be responsible for,
and Occupant hereby releases Owner and Owner’s Agents from any responsibility
for, any loss, liability, claim, expense or damage to property that could have
been insured (including without limitation any Loss arising from the active or
passive acts, omissions or negligence of Owner or Owner’s Agents)(the “Released
Claims”) [.…] By INITIALING HERE ___, Occupant acknowledges that he
understands and agrees to the provisions of this paragraph and agrees to these
provisions and that insurance is Occupant’s sole responsibility.” (UMF 4)
(emphasis original.)
 
16. NO WARRANTIES; ENTIRE AGREEMENT. Owner
hereby disclaims any implied or express warranties, guarantees or
representations of the nature, condition, safety or security of the Premises
and the Property and Occupant hereby acknowledges that Occupant has inspected
the Premises and the Property hereby acknowledges and agrees that Owner does
not represent or guarantee the safety or security of the Premises or the
Property or of any personal property stored therein, and this Lease/Rental
Agreement does not create any contractual obligation for Owner to increase or
maintain such safety or security. This Lease/Rental Agreement and any written
amendments or addenda executed at the same time as this Lease/Rental Agreement,
and any notice provided under this Agreement by Owner, set forth the entire
agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersedes all prior agreements or understandings with respect thereto. With
the exception of posted rules and regulations as noted in paragraph 14, there
are no representations, warranties or agreements by or between the parties
which are not set forth herein and no representative of Owner or Owner’s Agent
is authorized to make any representations, warranties, or agreements other than
as expressly set forth herein and, further, with the exception of any
subsequent notice from Owner to Occupant of adjustments as provided in
paragraph 2 above, this Lease/Rental Agreement may only be amended by a writing
signed by the parties. (UMF 8) (emphasis original.)
 
            Plaintiff
separately initialed paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agreement.  (See Defendants’ Notice of Lodgment, Exhibit
B.)  Thus, Defendants have met their initial
burdens of production and persuasion establishing that no triable issues of
material fact exist as to Issue Number 1. 
To wit, Defendants have shown that Plaintiff waived any claims stemming
from his rental of a Public Storage unit, including the claims for breach of
contract and negligence.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
            Plaintiff
does not proffer any admissible evidence in opposition.  Rather, Plaintiff cites to evidence advanced
by Defendants and argues that (1) Defendants’ breach of the lease agreement was
willful; (2) the lease is a contract of adhesion; and (3) the provisions are
not reciprocal.  (Opp. at p. 4:7-9.)  Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the
liability waiver in the contract may be invalidated under Tunkl because
the agreement “involves a contractual relationship of public interest.”  (Opp. at p. 7:12-15.)  
 
3.      Willful Breach
 
            In
support of Plaintiff’s argument that the Defendants’ breach was willful,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants failed to give Plaintiff adequate notice as is
required by paragraph 12 of the Lease Agreement before locking him out of his
unit, refusing to let him enter the unit to timely retrieve his belongings, and
informing the police that Plaintiff was trespassing.  
 
            Paragraph
12 of the Lease Agreement provides, in relevant part:
 
            12.       TERMINATION AND DEFAULT.  Owner may terminate this Lease/Rental
Agreement (i) if Occupant is not in default of this Lease/Rental Agreement by
giving written notice to Occupant by first class mail or electronic mail at the
last known physical address or email address provided to Owner in writing by
Occupant not less than seven (7) days before expiration of the term or, (ii) if
Occupant is in default of this Lease/Rental Agreement, by notice two (2) days
in advance at any time during the term.
 
            Defendants’
position is that Plaintiff defaulted on the agreement by recording Public
Storage employees on site without asking their permission first, taking photos
of employees’ license plates, engaging in arguments with employees, making the
employees feel harassed, and printing flyers dissuading customers from renting
storage units there.  (UMF 15-16.)  
 
On August 2, 2019, Plaintiff
was personally served by a police officer with the notice, which listed a
termination effective end of business day on August 5, 2019.  (UMF 12, 14.) 
Thus, while the parties may dispute whether Plaintiff’s conduct rose to
the level of constituting a default on the agreement, the evidence before the
Court does not establish that Defendants’ provision of 3 days’ notice of
termination of the agreement “for cause” is a willful breach of the lease
agreement, which requires only two days’ notice if termination is for cause.
 
            With
respect to refusing to let Plaintiff enter the unit, Plaintiff cites to page
108, line 16 of the Deposition, which indicates a police officer, not any
employee of Defendants’, told Plaintiff he had one day to come back and
retrieve his belongings – on August 5 – even though the termination letter
informed Plaintiff he could remove his belongings from the unit any time before
close of business on August 5.  
 
With respect to changing the
lock, page 107 of Plaintiff’s deposition indicates only that the police told
him Public Storage changed the lock on Plaintiff’s unit at some point between
when he got the termination notice on August 2 and when he came back on August
5 to retrieve his belongings.  There is
no evidence in the record that Defendants actually changed the lock on the unit
prior to the end of the business day on August 5.
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff has not met his burden of production to establish a triable issue of
material fact regarding whether Defendants cause willful injury or willful
violation of law.   
 
4.      Contract of Adhesion
 
            Plaintiff’s
second argument is that Defendants may not cite to provisions of the lease
agreement to defend themselves because the Lease Agreement is a contract of
adhesion.  
 
            “Unconscionability is ultimately a
question of law for the court.”  (Flores
v. Transamerica Homefirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 851.)  “However, numerous factual issues may bear on
that question.” (Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77,
89.)  As such, Respondent must show two
elements to establish the unconscionability defense: (1) procedural
unconscionability, which focuses on the manner in which the contract was
negotiated, and (2) substantive unconscionability, which concerns whether the
contract’s terms are unreasonably one-sided. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-115 (hereafter, Armendariz).)

 
            “The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for
a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause
under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the
same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.  In other
words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” 
(Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [cleaned up].)  
 
a.     
Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Procedural unconscionability examines the “oppression
that arises from unequal bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party
that results from hidden terms or the lack of informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Preprinted
forms buried within a volume of documents offered on a “take or leave it basis”
evidence a high degree of procedural unconscionability.  (See Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage
Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 102-104 (hereafter, Dougherty).)  Most consumer contracts are adhesive and
therefore present some procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915, (hereafter, Sanchez).)  “[A] finding of procedural unconscionability
does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but rather that courts will
scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to ensure they are not
manifestly unfair or one-sided.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            Foremost, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has not advanced any competent evidence to establish that the subject
agreement is procedurally unconscionable.  But upon reviewing the agreement, the Court
finds that the agreement is not procedural unconscionable, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s
contentions.  
 
The Court first notes that Plaintiff signed the agreement and initialed
parts of the agreement, acknowledging, for example, “that he understands and
agrees to the provisions of this paragraph.” 
(See Defendants’ Notice of Lodgment, Exhibit B, § 7.)  Moreover, the Court notes that certain terms
in Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, and 7 of the agreement are in bold, highlighting the
importance of such terms including the waiver provisions in Section 7.  (Id. at §§ 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 16.)   Thus,
when viewing the terms of the agreement against Plaintiff’s contentions, the
Court finds that Plaintiff could have declined to enter into the agreement with
the terms as drafted by Defendants.  In
short, the Court determines that the agreement is not procedurally
unconscionable, and with that finding, the Court need not reach the issue of
whether the agreement is substantively unconscionable. [3]
5.      Against Public Policy
 
            Plaintiff’s
final argument as to the waiver of liability is that the Tunkl factors
warrant invalidating the liability provision.
 
            Civil
Code section 1668 provides, “All contracts which have for their object,
directly or indirectly, to exempt anyone from responsibility for his own fraud,
or willful injury to the person or property of another, or violation of law,
whether willful or negligent, are against the policy of the law.”  
 
            Despite
its broad language, however, Section 1668 only applies to contracts that
involve “the public interest.”  (Cregg
v. Ministor Ventures (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 1107, 1111.)  Storge lease agreements have been previously
held to not involve “the public interest.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, lease
agreements generally involve simply a matter “of interpreting a contract; that
both parties are free to contract; that the relationship of landlord and tenant
does not affect the public interest; that such a provision affects only the
private affairs of the parties.”  (Barkett
v. Brucato (1953) 122 Cal.App.2d 264, 276.)
 
            In
any event, the terms of the waiver provision at issue here carve out Public
Storage’s responsibility for its own fraud, willful injury, and violation of
law.  Thus, Civil Code section 1668 does
not invalidate the waiver provision at issue here.
 
            As
such, the Court grants Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to Issue No.
1: whether the liability waiver bars Plaintiff’s claims.
 
B.     CONTRACTUAL TIME LIMITATION
 
In the alternative, Defendants
also contend that Plaintiff’s claims are time barred, because they accrued in
July or August 2019, whereas Plaintiff did not file the original complaint in
this matter until July of 2021.
 
1.     
Defendants’
Evidence
 
            Paragraph 4 of the lease agreement
provides as follows:
 

APPLICABLE LAW; JURISDICTION; VENUE; TIME TO
     BRING CLAIMS. This Lease/Rental Agreement shall be governed and construed
     in accordance with the laws of the state in which the Premises are
     located. If any provision of this Lease/Rental Agreement shall be invalid
     or prohibited under such law, such provision shall be ineffective only to
     the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invaliding the
     remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of the
     Lease/Rental Agreement. The parties agree that in view of the
     limitation of value of the stored goods as provided in paragraph 5 below
     and the limitations as to Owner’s liability as provided in paragraph 7
     below, the value of any claim hereunder is limited to $5,000, and accordingly,
     any action for adjudication of a claim shall be heard in a court of
     limited jurisdiction such as a small claims court. Any claim, demand,
     or right of Occupant, and any defense to a suit against Occupant, that
     arises out of this Lease/Rental Agreement, or the storage of property
     hereunder (including without limitation, claims for loss or damage to
     stored property) shall be barred unless Occupant commences an action (or,
     in the case of a defense, interposes such defense in a legal proceeding)
     within twelve (12) months after the date of the act, omission, inaction or
     other event that gave rise to such claim, demand, right or defense. By
     INITIALING HERE ___, Occupant acknowledges that he understands the
     provisions of this paragraph and agrees to these provisions. (UMF 2)
     (emphasis original.)

 
Because Plaintiff initiated the action against Defendants more than 12
months after the alleged harm arose at the end of July and beginning of August
2019, Defendants have met their initial burdens of production and persuasion
that there are no triable issues of material fact regarding whether Plaintiff’s
claims are time-barred per the agreement.
 
2.      Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
Plaintiff has not proffered any admissible evidence, but makes the
same legal arguments as above with respect to the time limitation clause.
 
            It
is “well-established that parties to a contract may agree to a provision
shortening the statute of limitations, qualified, however, by the requirement
that the period fixed is not in itself unreasonable or is not so unreasonable
as to show imposition or undue advantage.” 
(Wind Dancer Production Group v. Walt Disney Pictures (2017) 10
Cal.App.5th 56, 73.)  “Reasonable in this
context means the shortened period nevertheless provides sufficient time to
effectively pursue a judicial remedy.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            Here,
the parties contracted to a limitations period of twelve (12) months following
the date of the event giving rise to Plaintiff’s claims.  That is not so short as to prevent Plaintiff
from adequately investigating his claims and pursuing a judicial remedy.  
 
            Thus,
the limitations provision is valid and enforceable, and bars Plaintiff’s claims,
which were filed well after twelve months following the incident.  As such, the Court grants Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication as to Issue No. 2: whether Plaintiff’s Claims are
time-barred.
 
            Because
resolution of Issues 1 and/or 2 resolve all of Plaintiff’s claims in
Defendants’ favor, the Court does not address Defendants’ additional arguments
that Plaintiff’s damages are limited to $5,000; that Plaintiff was required to
bring suit in small claims court; and that Plaintiff failed to state a cause of
action against Defendants PS LPT Properties Investors, Public Storage Business
Parks and PS Business Parks, L.P.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Considering
the competent evidence proffered by Defendants, and viewing said evidence most
favorably to Plaintiff, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden
of production in establishing that triable issues of material fact exist with
respect to Issues Nos. 1 and 2.  
 
            In
particular, the Court finds that the liability waiver provision of the
rent/lease agreement is valid, enforceable, and bars all of Plaintiff’s
claims.  In the alternative, the Court
finds that the time limitation provision of the rent/lease agreement is valid,
enforceable, and bars all of Plaintiff’s claims.
 
            The
Court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.  The Court orders Defendants to give notice of
the Court’s ruling, and to file a proof of service of such.


