 Case Number:  22STCV15888    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Prior proceedings  On  May 12, 2022, Plaintiff Jorge Luis Mata Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this  action against Defendants H&D Gateway LLC (“H&D”), Tomomi Sushi  (“Tomomi Sushi”), Roberto Cortez (“Cortez”), and Does 1-30 for negligence (Lab.  Code, § 3706 et seq.) and ratification of assault (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd.  (b)(1)). On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include  Defendant W.Y. International, Inc. as Doe 11. On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff  amended the complaint to include Defendant Golden Lyon Investment Co. as Doe  12.  On  October 4, 2022, the Court sustained H&D’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second  cause of action for ratification of assault with 30 days leave to amend.  On  December 2, 2022, H&D filed an answer.   On December 19, 2022, H&D filed a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Cortez, Pedro Rivera Garcia (“Rivera Garcia”), and Roes 1- 20  for equitable indemnity, apportionment of liability, and contribution.  On  January 17, 2023, Tomomi Sushi filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On  March 29, 2024, the Court dismissed Tomomi Sushi without prejudice at  Plaintiff’s request.  On  March 16, 2023, the clerk entered the defaults of Cross-Defendants Cortez and  Rivera Garcia on the cross-complaint.  On  October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. On November 8,  2023, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint to include Defendants W.Y.  International, Inc. as Doe 11 and Golden Lyon Investment Co. as Doe 12.  On  January 11, 2024, the Court sustained H&D’s demurrer to the second cause of  action for ratification of assault with leave to amend. The Court explained: “  . . . Plaintiff has not pleaded any positive misconduct by H&D having to do  with Rivera’s alleged shooting of Plaintiff or Cortez’s alleged harboring of  Rivera. [Citation.] [¶] Instead, Plaintiff argues that Cortez’s alleged  harboring of Rivera can be imputed to H&D because Cortez was a ‘supervisor’  for H&D. According to Plaintiff, when Cortez harbored Rivera, H&D  harbored Rivera as a matter of law. [Citation.] The Court however concludes  that an employer does not engage in ‘positive misconduct’ that would subject it  to liability under Labor Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), based on  conduct by a ‘supervisor,’ when the complaint does not allege facts showing  that the supervisor acted for the employer in the matter at issue, namely, the  harboring of Rivera.”  On  January 17, 2024, Defendant Golden Lyon Investment Co. dba W.Y. International,  Inc. (“Golden Lyon”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint and a  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Does 1-50 for equitable indemnity,  contribution, declaratory relief, and express indemnity.  On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended  complaint against Defendants H&D, Tomomi Sushi, Roberto Cortes Leon (also  known as and erroneously sued as Roberto Cortez) (“Cortes Leon”), W.Y.  International, Inc., Golden Lyon, Does 1-10, and Does 13-30 for negligence  under Labor Code section 3706 et seq. and ratification of assault under Labor  Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1).  On  March 14, 2024, Defendant W.Y. International, Inc. (“W.Y.”) filed an answer to  Plaintiff’s second amended complaint.  On  May 17, 2023, the Court sustained H&D’s demurrer to the second cause of  action in the second amended complaint with leave to amend.  On  May 20, 2024, the Court sustained Golden Lyon’s demurrer to the second cause of  action in Plaintiff’s second amended complaint with leave to amend.  On  June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint against Defendants H&D, Tomomi Sushi, Cortes Leon, W.Y.,  Golden Lyon, Does 1-10, and Does 13-30 for negligence under Labor Code section  3706 et seq. and ratification of assault under Labor Code section 3602,  subdivision (b)(1).  On  July 29, 2024, the Court dismissed W.Y. without prejudice at Plaintiff’s  request.  B.   Demurrers  On  July 15, 2024, H&D filed a demurrer to the third amended complaint.  The demurrer was set for hearing on August  13, 2024. On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff  filed an opposition.  On August 6, 2024,  H&D filed a reply.  On  July 16, 2024, Golden Lyon filed a demurrer to the third amended complaint.  The demurrer was set  for hearing on August 13, 2024.  On July  31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.   On August 6, 2024, Golden Lyon filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing on the demurrers to September 10,  2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 30, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  H&D  and Golden Lyon ask the Court to sustain their demurrers to the ratification of  assault claim in Plaintiff’s third amended complaint.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to overrule the demurrers or grant leave to amend.  LEGAL STANDARDS  A.   Demurrer  Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides in part:  “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint  has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,  to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:  * * *  “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action.  “(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this  subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subds. (e), (f).)  In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any  ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the  face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take  judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the  pleading”].)  “For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate  facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or  law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.  Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,  emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)   "A  demurrer may be filed to one of several causes of action in the complaint,  without answering the other causes of action."  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 7:34.1,  p. 7(l)-19.)  “  ‘To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to  state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part  of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.’ ” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,  ¶ 7:40, p. 7(l)-21, quoting C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School  Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)  “It  is not necessary that the cause of action be the one intended by  plaintiff.  The test is whether the  complaint states any valid claim entitling plaintiff to relief.  Thus, plaintiff may be mistaken as to the  nature of the case, or the legal theory on which plaintiff can prevail.  But if the essential facts of some  valid cause of action are alleged, the complaint is good against a general  demurrer.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,  ¶ 7:41, p. 7(l)-22, original emphasis.)  B.   Labor Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1)  Labor  Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), provides:  “(b) An employee, or his or her dependents in the  event of his or her death, may bring an action at law for damages against the  employer, as if this division did not apply, in the following instances:  “(1) Where the employee’s injury or death is  proximately caused by a willful physical assault by the employer.”  (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd.  (b)(1).)  “[T]he  doctrine of respondeat superior cannot be used to extend the [Labor Code]  section 3602, subdivision (b)(1) exception to [workers’ compensation]  exclusivity to an employer.”  (Fretland v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1486 (Fretland);  see id. at p. 1487 [“liability under section 3602, subdivision (b)(1),  must be based on positive misconduct by the employer and not on a theory of  vicarious liability such as that which forms the basis of the doctrine of  respondeat liability”].)  However,  “the prohibition against imposing vicarious liability on an employer does not  apply when there was ‘positive misconduct’ by the employer such as when the  employer ‘ratified’ the tortious conduct of its employee and thereby became  ‘liable for the employee’s wrongful conduct as a joint participant.’” (Fretland,  supra, 69 Cal.App.4th at p. 1489, quoting Iverson v. Atlas Pacific  Engineering (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 219, 228.)  “  ‘Ratification is the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some manner as  his own an act which was purportedly done on his behalf by another person, the  effect of which, as to some or all persons, is to treat the act as if  originally authorized by him. [Citations.] A purported agent’s act may be  adopted expressly or it may be adopted by implication based on conduct of the  purported principal from which an intention to consent to or adopt the act may  be fairly inferred, including conduct which is “inconsistent with any  reasonable intention on his part, other than that he intended approving and  adopting it.” ’ ” [Citations.]” (Fretland, supra, 69 Cal.App.4th  at pp. 1490-1491, quoting Rakestraw v. Rodrigues (1972) 8 Cal.3d 67,  73.)  DISCUSSION  H&D  and Golden Lyon argue that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for ratification  of assault under Labor Code section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against H&D and Golden  Lyon because Plaintiff does not allege facts (1) demonstrating “positive  misconduct” by H&D or Golden Lyon or (2) demonstrating that Cortes Leon  acted for H&D or Golden Lyon in allegedly harboring Pedro Rivera after he  shot Plaintiff.  In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has pleaded facts showing that H&D and  Golden Lyon can be held liable as joint participants in Plaintiff’s shooting  based on (1) allegations that Cortes Leon was the statutory employee of H&D and Golden Lyon, (2) allegations that H&D and Golden Lyon made Cortes Leon their supervisor, and (3) allegations that Cortes Leon engaged in positive  misconduct including: (a) using authority granted by H&D and Golden Lyon to  hire and supervise workers, (b) hiring Rivera Garcia, (c) failing to screen  Rivera Garcia, (d) failing to fire or discipline Rivera Garcia after Plaintiff  reported that he was using drugs and brandishing a gun at H&D and Golden  Lyon work sites, (e) requiring Plaintiff to work with Rivera Garcia despite  Plaintiff’s complaints, and (f) misleading police about Rivera Garcia’s  whereabouts and identity after he shot Plaintiff.  Plaintiff  relies on Herrick v. Quality Hotels, Inns & Resorts, Inc. (1993) 19  Cal.App.4th 1608 (Herrick), to support the argument that Cortes Leon was  the “statutory supervisor” or agent of H&D and Golden Lyon whose positive  misconduct in harboring Rivera Garcia can be imputed to H&D and Golden  Lyon. In Herrick, the plaintiff brought suit against his employer, a  hotel, alleging his supervisor (Wilson) pulled a gun on the plaintiff and  threatened to blow the plaintiff’s head off. (Herrick, supra, 19  Cal.App.4th at p. 1614.) The jury found (1) the plaintiff had shown by a  preponderance of the evidence that the supervisor had threatened the plaintiff  with a pistol, (2) the supervisor was acting within the course and scope of his  employment with the hotel, and (3) the supervisor acted with the specific  intent to cause injury to the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff suffered severe  emotional distress as a result of the supervisor’s actions, (5) a hotel manager  (Anani) was informed that the supervisor acted as described and ratified the  act, and (6) the plaintiff showed by clear and convincing evidence that the  hotel’s conduct was malicious, oppressive or fraudulent, justifying imposition  of punitive damages. (Id. at p. 1615.) The jury awarded compensatory and punitive damages. (Id. at pp.  1615-1616.)  The  hotel appealed, arguing (among other things) Labor Code section 3602,  subdivision (b)(2), did not apply to create an exception to the exclusivity of  the worker’s compensation remedy. (Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th  at p. 1616.) The Court of Appeal affirmed, reasoning that the jury  “specifically found in its special verdict form inter alia that [the  supervisor] had threatened [the plaintiff] with a pistol on the subject date,  that [the supervisor] was acting within the course and scope of his employment  with [the hotel], that in doing the act described [the supervisor] acted with  the specific intent to cause injury to [the plaintiff] and that [the plaintiff]  suffered severe emotional distress as a result as a result of the act of [the  supervisor].” (Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p. 1617.) “The  jury’s findings established as a matter of law the applicability of the  exception to the workers’ compensation act.” (Ibid.)  In  addition, the Court of Appeal observed that “there was evidence that Anani,  [the supervisor’s] supervisor and the manager of [the hotel], ratified [the  supervisor’s] conduct.” (Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p.  1618.) “[T]he record establishes that [the manager] was aware that [the  supervisor] possessed guns on the hotel premises in violation of the employer’s  policy and that [the manager] was present when [the supervisor] had been arrested  previously for a physical assault on another employee. Additionally, the record  establishes that [the plaintiff] told [the manager] that [the supervisor] had  threatened [the plaintiff] with a gun and that [the manager] telephoned [the  plaintiff] in the early morning begging [the plaintiff] to forgive [the  supervisor], stating [the supervisor] had made a mistake and he was a good man.  The record also establishes that [the manager] had the sole authority within  the hotel to fire hotel employees and that sometime following the incident,  [the supervisor] received a promotion.” (Ibid.)  Here,  Plaintiff contends that Cortes Leon is the equivalent of the manager in Herrick.  However, Plaintiff’s third amended complaint,  like the second amended complaint, does not allege facts showing that Cortes Leon supervised employees of H&D or Golden  Lyon.  The third amended complaint  alleges that Cortes Leon supervised only his own workers.  Moreover,  Plaintiff has not pleaded facts (as opposed to conclusions) showing that Cortes  Leon was acting on behalf of H&D or Golden Lyon when he allegedly harbored  Rivera Garcia or that H&D or Golden Lyon ratified Cortes Leon’s conduct in  allegedly harboring Rivera Garcia.  The  Court concludes that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts showing that H&D  or Golden Lyon ratified Cortes Leon's alleged positive misconduct.  Therefore, H&D and Golden Lyon cannot be liable  as joint participants with Cortes Leon.  Because H&D and Golden Lyon also cannot be  vicariously liable based on conduct by Rivera Garcia or Cortes Leon, the Court  sustains the demurrers without leave to amend.  CONCLUSION            The Court SUSTAINS Defendant H&D Gateway LLC’s demurrer  to the second cause of action in Plaintiff Jorge Luis Mata Hernandez's third amended complaint without leave to  amend.  The  Court SUSTAINS Defendant Golden Lyon Investment Co. dba W.Y. International,  Inc.’s demurrer to the second cause of action in Plaintiff Jorge Luis Mata Hernandez's third amended complaint  without leave to amend.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file proof of service of the Court’s ruling within five  days.