 Case Number:  24TRCV02082    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ALBERT
  MORALES, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02082




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
RAMESH
  JOHNSTON,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December
10, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Ramesh Johnston
Responding
Party:                  None 
Special
Motion to Strike Complaint as Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers and plaintiff’s request for dismissal submitted on October 16, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing from October
24, 2024 to December 10, 2024 to allow supplemental briefing.  No supplemental briefing was filed.
RULING
The motion is MOOT.  
The Court awards defendant her
attorney’s fees and costs against plaintiff in the amount of $8,810, pursuant
to CCP §425.16(c).
BACKGROUND
            On June 24, 2024, plaintiff Albert
Morales (self-represented) filed a complaint against Ramesh Johnston for
intentional tort. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under CCP §425.16(b), “(1) A cause
of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance
of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States
Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue
shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines
that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim.  (2)
In making its determination, the court shall consider the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability
or defense is based.”
“The anti-SLAPP procedures are
designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the
undue burden of frivolous litigation.”  Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th
376, 393.  “The anti-SLAPP statute does
not insulate defendants from any
liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or
speech.  It only provides a procedure for
weeding out, at an early stage, meritless
claims arising from protected activity.” 
Id. at 384.  “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves
two steps.  First, the defendant must
establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section
425.16.  If the defendant makes the
required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate merit of
the claim by establishing a probability of success.”  Id.
(citation omitted).  The California
Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like
procedure.’  The court does not weigh
evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. 
Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally
sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment.  It accepts the
plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.  ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit
may proceed.’”  Id. at 384-85 (citations omitted). 

“At the first step, the moving
defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them.  When relief is sought based on allegations of
both protected and unprotected activity, the unprotected activity is
disregarded at this stage.  If the court
determines that relief is sought based on allegations arising from activity
protected by the statute, the second step is reached.  There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally
sufficient and factually substantiated.” 
Id. at 396.
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to §425.16, defendant
Ramesh Johnston requests that the Court strike the complaint.
In ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion,
the trial court engages in a two-step process. 
“First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity.  The moving defendant’s burden
is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were
taken ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue,’ as defined in the statute.  If
the court finds such a showing has been made, it then determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. . . . Only
when a defendant shows that a cause of action is based on protected conduct and
the plaintiff fails to show a likelihood of success on that claim is it subject
to dismissal.”  Wong v. Jing
(2010) 189 Cal. App. 4th 1354, 1360 (citation omitted).
The complaint alleges that
defendant filed a false sexual assault Title IX complaint to her employers,
Hawthorne School District, to get plaintiff fired and portray him as a sexual
predator at work in 2022.  In the Title
IX complaint, defendant stated that plaintiff sexually assaulted her to cover
up the affair between defendant and plaintiff. 
Plaintiff’s husband found out about the affair that had been going on
for months after he found texts in his wife’s phone.  Both Tad Johnston and defendant threatened
plaintiff via text stating that he needed to leave the school district or there
would be consequences.  When plaintiff
ignored the threats, defendant filed a false Title IX complaint in retaliation.  Plaintiff was immediately put on
administrative leave and that is when defendant told co-workers about her false
allegations to influence the co-workers’ testimonies when it would be their
turn to be interviewed during the investigation.  Defendant’s initial allegations were dropped
when the investigators cited lack of evidence and cooperation from plaintiff to
provide proof of her allegations.
The complaint further alleges that
in January 2024, defendant was called in for a deposition by a third party
hired by the district to continue the investigation and under oath stated that
she was raped by plaintiff multiple times to get defendant fired.  After multiple interviews of witnesses to the
consensual relationship, and looking at concrete evidence between defendant and
plaintiff, in January 2024, it was determined that defendant’s allegations were
unsubstantiated.  For two years,
plaintiff suffered emotional damage and depression while defendant spread lies
to co-workers that plaintiff was a sexual predator who sexually assaulted
her.  Plaintiff resigned from the
workplace because defendant had ruined his reputation at work portraying him as
a sexual predator.  
Step One:  Conduct in furtherance of right of
petition or free speech
            CCP §425.16(e) states, in relevant
part:  “As used in this section, ‘act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United
States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’
includes:  (1) any written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” 
“The phrase ‘arising from’ . . .
has been interpreted to mean that ‘the act underlying the plaintiff’s cause’ or
‘the act which forms the basis for the plaintiff’s cause of action’ must have
been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’”  Schwarzburd
v. Kensington Police Protection & Community Services Dist. Bd.  (2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 1345,
1350 (citation omitted).  “What nexus
must a defendant show between a challenged claim and the defendant’s protected
activity for the claim to be struck?  . .
. [A] claim is not subject to a motion to strike simply because it contests an
action or decision that was arrived at following speech or petitioning
activity, or that was thereafter communicated by means of speech or petitioning
activity.  Rather, a claim may be struck
only if the speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of,
and not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for
which liability is asserted.”  Park v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 1057, 1060 (considering the
relationship a defendant must show between a plaintiff’s claim and the sorts of
speech on public matters the Legislature intended to protect).  “’[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after
protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity
for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.’ 
( . . . see City of Cotati [v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69], at p. 78 [suit may be in
“response to, or in retaliation for,’ protected activity without necessarily
arising from it].)  Instead, the focus is
on determining what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or
her asserted liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech
or petitioning.’  ‘The only means
specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy the
[arising from] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured
falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e) . . .
.’  In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP
motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what
actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis
for liability.”  Id. 
            Defendant argues that her filing of
a Title IX complaint arises from protected activity under CCP §425.16(e)(1)
because it is an oral and written statement made before a “judicial
proceeding.”  Defendant also asserts that
communications and petitioning activity to educational institutions seeking to
prompt disciplinary action, including termination, against an employee are part
of an official proceeding authorized by law. 
See, e.g., Lee v. Fick (2005) 135 Cal. App. 4th
89, 96 (letter written by a parent to school officials that contained allegedly
libelous statements about coach was written to prompt official action and was
privileged).
            The Court finds that as argued by
defendant, the filing of a Title IX complaint is protected activity within the
meaning of section 425.16.  See, e.g.,
Laker v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2019) 32 Cal.
App. 5th 745, 784-65 (internal investigations have been found to be
an official proceeding authorized by law and internal investigations by schools
into claims of discrimination qualify as official proceedings authorized by law
that receive the protections of the anti-SLAPP statute).  Accordingly, defendant has met her burden
under the first prong that plaintiff’s cause of action for “intentional tort” falls
under CCP §425.16(e).
 
            Step Two:  Plaintiff’s Responding Burden 
            “To establish a probability of
prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  For purposes of this inquiry,
the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not
weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence,
it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.”  Hawran v.
Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74. 
However, the court must accept as true the evidence favorable to
plaintiff.  Soukup v. Law Offices of
Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291. 
Plaintiff need only establish that the claim has minimal merit.  Id.  

            Defendant argues that plaintiff
cannot prevail because the cause of action for defamation is barred by the
litigation privilege under Civil Code §47, which states in part, “A privileged
publication . . . is one made: . . . (b) In any . . . (2) judicial proceeding,
. . . or (4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized by
law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2 . . . .”  Further, plaintiff cites to Civil Code §47.1,
which states that a communication regarding an “incident of sexual assault,
harassment or discrimination is privileged under section 47.”  
            On October 16, 2024, plaintiff filed
a request for dismissal before the hearing on the motion.
            As argued by defendant, plaintiff
cannot show that he has a probability of prevailing as the litigation privilege
under Civil Code §47 bars the cause of action as it is based on the filing of
the Title IX complaint. 
“[C]ommunications made in connection with litigation do not necessarily
fall outside the privilege simply because they are, or are alleged to be,
fraudulent, perjurious, unethical, or even illegal.”  Kashian v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.
App. 4th 892, 920.
            As noted, plaintiff submitted a
request for dismissal and, thus, the motion is MOOT.
 
            Attorney’s Fees
Under CCP §425.16(c), “In any
action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special motion
to strike shall be entitled to recover his or her attorney’s fees and costs.”
Although plaintiff filed a
voluntary dismissal prior to the hearing, the Court has limited jurisdiction to
decide whether to award to award attorney fees and costs to defendant.  See Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis v. Yang
(2009) 178 Cal. App. 4th 869, 878-79.  “In short, the dismissal is given effect, but
the defendant does not lose its anti-SLAPP right to recover fees if its motion
would have been successful.”  Dickinson
v. Cosby (2017) 17 Cal. App. 5th 655, 679 (citing Yang,
supra).  
“[T]he trial court’s adjudication
of the merits of a defendant’s motion to strike is an essential predicate to
ruling on the defendant’s request for an award of fees and costs.  An award of these expenses under section
425.16 is only justified when a defendant demonstrates that plaintiff’s action
falls within the provisions of subdivision (b) and the plaintiff is unable to
establish a reasonable probability of success.” 
Moore v. Liu (1999) 69 Cal. App. 4th 745, 752-53.
As stated above, the motion would
have been successful as defendant has demonstrated that plaintiff’s action
falls within the provisions of CCP §425.16 and that plaintiff is unable to
establish a reasonable probability of success. 

            On October 24, 2024, the Court
called the matter for hearing.  There was
no appearance by plaintiff.  The Court
noted that the clerk had taken the matter off calendar when the dismissal was
entered, but that defendant contends that she is entitled to recover her
attorney’s fees for the motion notwithstanding the dismissal of the complaint
by plaintiff prior the hearing.  The
Court ordered that the motion be restored to the Court’s calendar for hearing
on December 10, 2024.  The Court also
granted the parties the right to file a supplemental brief addressing the
motion, including the merits of the motion, if deemed necessary, and a
discussion on the issue of whether the Court has continued jurisdiction to
award attorney’s fees on the motion notwithstanding plaintiff’s dismissal,
citing to Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis v. Yang, supra and Dickinson
v. Cosby, supra.  
            Neither party filed supplemental
briefing.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that it has limited
jurisdiction to determine whether defendant is entitled to her attorney’s fees
and costs.  Defendant demonstrated that
plaintiff’s action falls within the provisions of CCP §425.16 and that
plaintiff is unable to establish a reasonable probability of success.  Thus, the Court finds that defendant is the
prevailing party and entitled to her attorney’s fees.
Defendant requests $9,720 ($350/hr.
x 27.6 hrs.) for attorney’s fees and costs. 
The requested amount includes anticipated hours to file a reply and
appear at the hearing.  The Court finds
that $8,810 ($350/hr. x 25 hrs.; $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be
imposed against plaintiff.
 
ORDER
            The motion is MOOT, except for the
request for attorneys fees pursuant to statute.
The Court awards defendant her
attorney’s fees and costs against plaintiff in the amount of $8,810, pursuant
to CCP §425.16(c).
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.