  Case Number:  21STCV00174    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No. 
Carlson vs. Farmers
Insurance Exchange, et. al., Case No. 21STCV00174
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff Douglas Carlson’s (Plaintiff)
second cause of action for intentional misrepresentation and fourth cause of
action for deceit. The motion is denied.
 
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party can show evidentiary support for
a pleading or claim and if not to enable an order of summary dismissal without
the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Atlantic Richfield).) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
Once the
moving party has met that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause
of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
In 1984, Plaintiff and Defendants,
a group of insurance companies, entered into a contract under which Plaintiff
was appointed as an insurance agent for Defendants. (FAC ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
“agreed to develop and solicit customers for Farmers insurance, to service
those customers for Farmers in return for which Farmers would compensate
[Plaintiff].” (FAC ¶ 6.) Plaintiff worked as an insurance agent under the
contract from 1984 through 2019. (FAC ¶ 7.) In July 2019, Defendants held a
meeting with Plaintiff in which they threatened termination based on
Plaintiff’s failure to meet unspecified “business results.” (FAC ¶ 16.) In
December 2019, Defendants informed Plaintiff that they would terminate
Plaintiff’s agency within 90 days and buy out all of his business
relationships. (FAC ¶ 18.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants,
at all relevant times, informed exclusive agents and potential exclusive agents
that “(1) once they become an established agency following a short period of
probationary status they would have no sales goal for sales of insurance
policies . . . (2) after becoming an established agency they would have no
sales quota for sales of insurance policies . . . and (3) the decision of how
large their agency should be once they became established year in and year out
was within their discretion as independent business owners not requiring growth
every single year.” (FAC ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that these representations
were false, and that Defendants failed to disclose to Plaintiff facts
concerning their use of a sales quota system to terminate agents. (FAC ¶¶ 47, 56.)
 
Plaintiff’s fraud claims center
around Defendants’ “Managing Underperforming Agents” (MUA) program, instituted
sometime around 2017 or 2018. (DE, Ex. H-6, p. 86 [343].) The MUA program ranked all Farmers agents
with three or more years of tenure based on metrics including the number of new
business policies sold, the amount of premium for policies sold, and the change
in policies in force (the number of policies an agent has). (DE, Ex. H-9, p. 82
[367].) Agents ranked below a certain cutoff were deemed “underperforming,” and
were informed that “the continuation of your appointment agreement depends on
your ability to immediately achieve a significant improvement in your agency’s
business results.” (PE, Ex. L10 [214]; DE, Nagy Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. N-1 [7].) 
 
As described by Jeffery Dailey, Defendants’ CEO, “the whole purpose of
the MUA program was to manage underperforming agents out of Farmers because we
had a goal from the board to grow our market share of insurance. . . . the
whole purpose here was to remove agents who were not producing new business,
and so the ranking is to get at the agents that weren’t producing new
business.” (DE, Ex. H-7, pp. 49-50 [347].) In 2019, Defendants set the cutoff
at the 11th percentile so that around 1000 agents would be designated
“underperforming.” (Id. p. 51; PE, Ex. L9, p. 90 [199].) That year,
Defendants planned that none of the “underperforming” agents would remain with
Defendants by the end of the process; Defendants projected that all of those
agents would either resign upon receiving the MUA notice, be acquired
internally or externally during the MUA process, or be terminated at the end of
the process. (PE, Ex. L7, p. 137 [140].) Plaintiff was informed that he was
underperforming under the MUA program by manager Zoltan Nagy at the July 2019
meeting. (PE, Ex. L9, p. 62 [193]; DE, Nagy Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
Second Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Misrepresentation
            The
elements of fraud are: (1) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent
to defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages. (See
Civil Code §1709.) “ ‘Promissory fraud’ is a
subspecies of the action for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may
be actionable fraud. [Citation.] An action for promissory fraud may lie where a
defendant fraudulently
induces
the plaintiff to enter into a contract. [Citations.] In such cases, the
plaintiff's claim does not depend upon whether the defendant's promise is
ultimately enforceable as a contract.” (Agosta v. Astor (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 596, 603.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges under his claim for fraudulent misrepresentation, “Farmers
intentionally and fraudulently represented that Plaintiff was not subject to
any sales quota or sales goal for sale of insurance policies after the
Defendants decided to initiate the secret sales quota program to terminate
agents.” (FAC ¶ 47.)
 
Plaintiff
has presented evidence of Defendants’ representations to him and other agents
that they would not be subject to sales quotas or sales goals. Plaintiff states
in his declaration that such representations were made to him by Zoltan Nagy at
the July 2019 meeting. (PE, Carlson Decl. ¶¶ 1, 5.) Steve Aspel, who worked as
a district manager for Defendants from 1996 through 2012, also states that
agents and prospective agents were “explicitly told that they do not have any
sales quotas or goals,” and that “[r]ecruits were regularly assured as part of
the recruitment process that they not [sic] be required under their contracts
to keep growing their business year after year once they attained a level of
business satisfactory to their lifestyle.” (PE, Ex. L2 ¶ 3.) In discovery
responses, Defendants represented that they did not instruct district managers
to stop informing agents about the lack of sales quotas or sales goals from
2015 through 2019. (PE, Ex. L25 [432].) 
 
            Defendants
first argue that these representations were not false because the MUA program
did not impose a “sales quota” or “sales goal.” While the evidence shows that
agents who did not meet a certain level of sales performance would be subject
to the MUA program and ultimately terminated (PE, Ex. L7, p. 137 [140]), Defendants
contend that this was not a “sales quota” or “sales goal” because the threshold
for underperforming agents was calculated relative to other agents’ performance,
rather than being a pre-determined, fixed amount. The Court disagrees. The fact that the cutoff
was tied to a percentile rather than a fixed amount is not inconsistent with
interpreting the program as imposing a sales “quota” or “goal,” under the
ordinary meaning of those words.
 
Defendants
also cite Plaintiff’s deposition testimony that “[s]ales quota means … that the
company wants you to write X amount of policies per month, make X amount of
contacts … and if you … don’t meet those things, there will be consequences.”
(DE, Ex. H-2, p. 167 [190].) This statement is not conclusive evidence as to
the meaning of “quota,” and in any case the MUA program is consistent with
Plaintiff’s definition; “X” here would simply be equal to the performance of
the 11th percentile of all ranked agents.
 
Furthermore,
fraud may be based on “ambiguous statements and half-truths. Thus a
speaker may make a statement and know that it is open to two interpretations,
one true and one false. The statement is actionable if the speaker intends that
it be understood in its false sense or is indifferent to which way the
statement is taken; a speaker who knowingly makes an ambiguous statement is
obliged to take reasonable steps to ensure that the statement is understood
accurately.” (Restatement (Third) Torts: Liability
for Econ. Harm § 9, cmt. c (2020); see Friedman v. Medjet Assistance, LLC
(C.D. Cal., Nov. 1, 2010) 2010 WL 11462853, at *14.)  Because Defendants have not shown that
interpretating the MUA program as a “quota” or “goal” would be unreasonable, there
is a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendants’ representations
concerning the lack of sales quotas or goals were false.
 
Defendants
next argue that the representations were not actionable because its managers
believed that their statements regarding the absence of sales quotas were true
at the time they were made. This argument fails for the reasons discussed
above; Defendants do not dispute that Zoltan Nagy told Plaintiff in July 2019
that agents do not have sales goals or quotas. (DE, Ex. H-2, p. 159; PE,
Carlson Decl. ¶ 5.) Nagy was aware of the MUA program and the general criteria
for deeming agents “underperforming.” (DE, Nagy Decl. ¶ 4.) The MUA program can
reasonably be interpreted as imposing a sales goal or quota, and so there is a
triable dispute as to whether Nagy knew that his representation was false or a
“half-truth” that could be understood as false.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Deceit
The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are: “(1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.) Deceit includes “[t]he suppression of a fact,
by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives information of other facts
which are likely to mislead for want of communication of that fact.” (Civ. Code
§ 1710, subd. (3).) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
claim for deceit is based on the allegations that  “Farmers intentionally and fraudulently
concealed and failed to disclose to Plaintiff the existence of the MUA program,
the rankings being used in such program, the quotas created in order to
terminate approximately 1000 agents annually. Such concealment and
nondisclosure were made with the intent of causing Plaintiff to rely on
statements denying the existence of the program and quotas.: (FAC ¶ 56.)
 
Plaintiff
allegedly relied on Defendants’ concealment when he “did not structure his
agency in a way to prevent Defendants use of sales quotas under the MUA program
to take such customers against his will. Had Plaintiff known of the falsity of
the statements . . . he would have taken actions such as merging with another
agent or acquiring a smaller agency or realigning his agency into an agency
offering other insurance policies not associated with Defendants prior to July
of 2019.” (FAC ¶ 57.)
 
Defendants
argue that they did not owe Plaintiff any duty to disclose facts because no
fiduciary relationship existed between the parties. However, as Defendants
acknowledge, “[a] duty to disclose may also arise in the so-called ‘half truth’
context—that is, when a speaker makes a representation which, though not false,
he knows will be misleading absent full disclosure of additional facts known to
him which qualify the initial representation.” (San Diego Hospice v. County
of San Diego (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1048, 1055 fn. 4.) “In transactions
which do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for
non-disclosure of material facts may arise [where] . . . the defendant makes
representations but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts
disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead...” (Linear
Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115,
132.) Here, there is a triable dispute as to whether Nagy’s July 2019 representations
to Plaintiff regarding sales quotas were “likely to mislead” Plaintiff, given
the existence and workings of the MUA program.
 
Defendants
next argue that they did not intend to induce Plaintiff’s reliance because the
goal of the MUA program was solely to improve underperforming agents’ business
results. However, Plaintiff’s evidence shows a triable dispute as to whether
the improvement of agents’ business was in fact the purpose of the program. Neal Bordenave, Plaintiff’s expert witness,
opines that no reasonable insurer could have expected Plaintiff to achieve the
results demanded in the MUA letter. (PE, Bordenave Decl. ¶ 17.) Bordenave
further opines that the objective of the MUA program was not to improve agents’
sales, but “to capture accounts and redistribute policies of those agents to
other agents at Farmers.” The program also benefited Defendants by allowing
them “to significantly decrease the commissions they were required to pay for
these accounts,” because a redistributed account would pay the newly assigned
agent only 50% of the commission that it paid the original agent. (Ibid;
PE, Ex. L11, p. 67 [221].) This evidence is
sufficient to create a triable dispute as to Defendants’ intent in making the
purported misrepresentations.
 
            Finally,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not shown justifiable reliance on either
Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations or concealment. Plaintiff’s own
testimony and the testimony of his expert witness is sufficient to create a
triable dispute on this issue. Plaintiff states that, had he known of the MUA
program prior to 2019, “I would have engaged in a merger or acquisition path
including acquiring producers to ensure that I would never fall below the
number of agents or the percentage required.” 
(PE, Carlson Decl. ¶ 7.) Bordenave agrees that Plaintiff could have
improved his relevant business metrics for the MUA program through merger with
or acquisition of other agencies. (PE, Bordenave Decl. ¶¶ 14-16.) While Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff’s reliance was unreasonable as a matter of law
because the parties’ agreement provided for no-cause termination, the Court previously
rejected this argument in ruling on Defendants’ demurrer.