 Case Number:  22VECV02221    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Omar
  Leonard, et al.,
 
           Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
Blvd Apartments,
  LLC,
 
          Defendant.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV02221                 107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
Petition
  to Confirm Minor’s Compromise


[THE
FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: GRANTED.  I. BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs Omar Leonard
(“Omar”); Heidi Payton (“Heidi”); Marlee Leonard (“Marlee”), a minor by and
through her guardian ad litem, Omar; Osir Leonard (“Osir”), a minor by and
through his guardian ad litem, Omar; and Osani Leonard (“Osani” and, together
with Marlee, and Osir, the “Minors” and, the Minors, together with Omar and
Heidi, “Plaintiffs”), a minor by and through his guardian ad litem, Omar, were
tenants residing in an apartment building owned by defendant Blvd Apartments,
LLC (“Defendant”). (Complaint pp. 1–2.) Plaintiffs allege that during their
tenancy, the apartment was not habitable, and Plaintiffs were thereby damaged.
(Id. at pp. 3–4.) On December 2,
2022, Plaintiffs initiated the instant lawsuit by filing a complaint alleging
causes of action for (1) breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (2)
breach of the statutory warranty of habitability, (3) breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) violation of Civil Code section 1942.2,
and (6) private nuisance. On February 23,
2024, Omar filed a petition to approve compromise of disputed claim for each of
the three Minors (together, the “Petitions”). II. LEGAL STANDARD Compromises of
disputed claims brought by minors are governed in part by C.C.P. §372. The
statute allows a guardian ad litem to appear in court on behalf of a minor
claimant and gives the guardian ad litem the power to compromise the minor’s
claim “with the approval of the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending.” A petition for court approval of a compromise must be verified by the
petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has any
bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise or covenant. (CRC Rule
7.950.) CRC Rule 7.952(a)
requires the attendance of the petitioner and claimant at the hearing on the
compromise of the claim unless the court for good causes dispenses with their
personal appearance. “Neither section
372 nor the California Rules of Court (rules 7.950 & 7.952) contemplates a
noticed motion and adversary hearing when court approval of a minor’s
compromise is sought. Although we need not decide the question, it would appear
that a petition to approve or disapprove a minor’s compromise may be decided by
the superior court, ex parte, in chambers.” (Pearson v. Superior Court (2012)
202 Cal. App. 4th 1333, 1337.) CRC Rule 7.955(a)
requires the Court to use “a reasonable fee standard” when approving and
allowing the amount of attorneys’ fess payable from money to be paid for the
benefit of a minor and requires that the Court “give consideration to the terms
of any representation agreement made between the attorney and the
representative of the minor… and evaluate the agreement based on the facts and
circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the
attorney and the representative of the minor… contemplated that the attorney's
fee would be affected by later events.” CRC Rule 7.955(b)
sets forth fourteen nonexclusive factors the Court may consider in determining
a reasonable attorney’s fee. CRC Rule 7.955(c) requires that a petition
requesting Court approval and allowance of an attorney’s fee under 7.955(a)
must include a declaration from the attorney that addresses the factors listed
in 7.955(b) that are applicable to the matter before the Court. III. DISCUSSION Omar, as guardian
ad litem for each of the Minors, seeks court approval for a settlement under
which the Minors would each receive $5,000 out of a total settlement of $172,500.
Attorneys’ fees in the amount of $1,206.76 for each Minor, representing 25% of
each of the Minors’ settlement, will be deducted from each of the Minors’
settlement amounts. As such, each of the Minors’ net proceeds are $3,620.28. (Petition
Attachment 10C.) Costs in the amount of $172.96 for each Minor will be deducted
from each of the Minors’ settlement amounts. This is a landlord-tenant
habitability suit, in which Minors lived in uninhabitable conditions including
but not limited to living with cockroaches, causing each of the Minors to
suffer emotional distress for which they did not require professional medical
treatment. (Stark Decl. ¶ 5; Petition p. 2.) Each of the Minors has
recovered completely from these injuries with no permanent injuries. (Petitions
p. 2.) Having reviewed
the petition, this court finds that the settlement is fair considering the risk
of going to trial and the alleged injuries sustained by Plaintiffs. The action will be
settled for $172,500, of which each Minor will receive $5,000, Omar will
receive $137,500, and Heidi will receive $20,000 and waiver of approximately
$15,000 of unpaid rent. (Petition Attachment 10C; Stark Decl. ¶ 6.) Omar,
as guardian ad litem for each of the Minors, has satisfied the requirements
under CRC Rule 7.950 by disclosing information that bears upon the
reasonableness of the compromise. (Stark Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.) The adult
plaintiffs, Omar and Heidi, will receive significantly more of the settlement
than the Minors because Omar and Heidi bore most of the financial cost of the
habitability issues, such as lost wages, rental payments, and attempted
remediation attempts. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Additionally, Omar will receive
significantly more than Heidi because he incurred medical expenses and loss of
business while he was hospitalized. (Ibid.) The settlement
agreement is reasonable, with the reduction of the attorney’s fees for the adult
Plaintiffs, Omar and Heidi, to 33% contingency from the 40% contingency
provided for in the Attorney-Client Retainer Agreement. The settlement provides
for an attorneys’ fees award of $53,797.33 based on a 25% contingency fee for the
Minors and a 33% contingency fee for Omar and Heidi. Plaintiffs’ counsel Patrick
J. Stark estimates he and his firm have spent 20 hours prosecuting this lawsuit
on behalf of each Minor (for a total of 60 hours spent working on behalf of all
three Minors). (Stark Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel sets forth the
various tasks he and his firm conducted or directed in the prosecution and
settlement of this lawsusit, including tasks done specifically for the Minors. (Ibid.)
Omar, as guardian ad litem for each of the Minors, submits a declaration of
counsel explaining the basis for the attorney’s fees request including a
discussion of the applicable factors listed in Rule 7.955(b) and attached a
copy of the written attorney fee arrangement agreement as set forth in the Attorney-Client
Retainer Agreement, which is signed by Omar. (Id. at ¶¶ 3–4, 7–10;
Petition Attachment 17a.) The attorneys’ fees are reasonable and sufficiently
supported. As required by CRC
Rule 7.952, Plaintiffs are required to attend the hearing on the petition. This
court will therefore require attendance at the hearing to grant the Petitions. Accordingly, the
Petitions are GRANTED.  Dated:              April
4, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of
the Superior Court