  Case Number:  21STCV06362    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PATRICK KRUG, an
  individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, a
government entity, and DOES 1 through
  25,
inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.      
                         


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV06362
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION NOTICE OR IN
  THE ALTERNATIVE FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  DEFENDANT’S REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  DEFENDANT’S INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  DEFENDANT’S REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
 
Date: October 7, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant THE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES OF THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY (“Defendant” or “CSU”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
PATRICK KRUG (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of an
employment relationship.  The operative
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) discrimination; (2)
harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to prevent, investigate and remedy
harassment and discrimination; (5) whistleblower retaliation; and (6)
reprisal/retaliation.  On October 24,
2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgment with respect to
the first, second, and sixth causes of action.
 
            On August 30, 2024, Defendant filed a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Defendant’s Requests for Admission (“RFAs
Motion”), Motion to Compel Further Responses to Defendant’s Interrogatories (“SIs/FIs
Motion”) and a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Defendant’s Requests for
Production (“RFPs Motion”) (collectively, “Motions to Compel Further”).  Plaintiff filed oppositions to the Motions to
Compel Further on September 23, 2024, and Defendant filed replies on September
30, 2024.
 
            On September 5, 2024, Defendant
filed a Motion to Quash Deposition Notice or in the Alternative for Protective
Order (the “Motion to Quash”), seeking to quash Plaintiff’s deposition notice
of CSU employee and attorney Ruth Jones (“Jones”), or, in the alternative, for
entry of a protective order to prohibit and/or limit the scope of deposition
testimony sought from Jones.  Plaintiff
filed an opposition on September 19, 2024, and Defendant filed a reply on September
25, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            Defendant objects to portions of the Declaration
of Beth Gunn in support of the opposition to the Motion to Quash.  The Court rules on these
objections as follows: 
 
            Objection Nos. 8-9:
OVERRULED.
 
The Court declines to rule on the remaining objections
as they pertain to material that is not relevant to the Court’s ruling in the Motion
to Quash.
 
Defendant objects to portions of the Declaration of Beth Gunn in support of the
opposition to the RFAs Motion.  The Court rules on these objections as
follows: 
 
            Objection Nos. 1, 11:
OVERRULED;
Objection Nos. 2-10: SUSTAINED.
 
Defendant objects to portions of the Declaration of Patrick Krug in support of
the opposition to the RFAs Motion.  The Court rules on these objections as
follows: 
 
Objection Nos. 12-14: OVERRULED;
Objection Nos. 15-27: SUSTAINED.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
DISCUSSION
Motion to Quash
            Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2017.020 authorizes the court to
limit discovery as follows: “(a) The court shall limit the scope of discovery
if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery or admissible evidence…”  (CCP §
2017.020(a).)  CCP section 2019.030
authorizes the court to restrict the frequency or extent of use of a discovery
method “if it determines either of the following: (1) The
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable
from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less
expensive” or “(2) The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or
expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  (CCP § 2019.030(a).)  Finally, “the court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense.”  (CCP § 2025.420(b).)
 
As
a general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  (CCP § 2017.010; Schnabel
v. Super.Ct. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
“[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action.”¿ (CCP § 2017.010.)¿ “For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement
...” (citation).”¿ These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery, (Colonial
Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790),
and contrary to popular belief fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases.¿ (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355,
385.)¿ 
 
            Here, Defendant’s Motion to Quash is
based mainly on the contention that the testimony sought from Jones would be duplicative
of testimony already provided by CSU’s in-house lawyer Marc Mootchnik
(“Mootchnik”), Defendant’s designated PMQ, making it burdensome to prepare
Jones for deposition.  Defendant asserts
that during Mootchnik’s deposition, Mootchnik already answered all of Krug’s
counsel’s questions about Jones’ limited role in the investigation and appeals
process.  (Declaration of Jeffrey A. Payne
[“Payne Decl.”], ¶ 8 & Exh. F.)  Defendant
asserts that Jones is an in-house civil rights attorney at CSU whom other
in-house CSU attorneys briefly consulted for a legal opinion on an aspect of
Krug’s appeal (Id., ¶ 13), but that she did not investigate any part of
Krug’s claims and did not draft any type of response to Krug’s appeal.  (Motion, p. 10.)  Defendant posits that Krug has already
deposed multiple witnesses in connection with his failure-to-investigate claim
– namely, Katherine Edwards, the third-party investigator who investigated his
claims, (Payne Decl., ¶ 11), Marcie Garder, who initially worked on Krug’s
appeal (Id.) and Mootchnik, the in-house lawyer who handled the
investigation and appeal. (Id.)  Defendant
thus contends that the burden and expense of preparing and producing Jones for
deposition far outweighs the minimal (if any) light Jones’s testimony could
shed on Krug’s case.  (Motion, p. 10.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that on August 14, 2024, Defendant produced a new batch of documents Bates-labeled
CSU-KRU018953 through CSU-KRU020450, which reflected additional communications
regarding the handling of Plaintiff’s investigation appeal.  (Declaration of Beth Gunn [“Gunn Decl.”], ¶
9.)  Plaintiff’s counsel declares that
her review of the additional documents led her to believe that Jones was more
involved in the process than previously revealed.  (Id., ¶ 10-11.)  Plaintiff also points out that Defendant identified
Jones as one of sixteen individuals with knowledge of facts pertinent to its denial
of material allegations in the operative complaint and affirmative defenses.  (Id., ¶ 13, Exh. E.)  In sum, Plaintiff is seeking to obtain
deposition testimony from Jones, a person identified by CSU as a pertinent fact
witness and further identified by Plaintiff’s review of produced documents as a
fact witness who had conversations with key actors/decision-makers and was instrumental
in the decisions made regarding the internal investigation of Plaintiff’s
complaint of retaliation. 
 
            The ascertainment of the truth in
connection with legal proceedings is a compelling state interest.¿ (Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 857.) 
The Court thus disagrees with Defendant’s position that Jones’ testimony
would be unreasonably cumulative or duplicative and burdensome.  Defendant has also not demonstrated that the
expense or burden of the requested deposition outweighs the likelihood that the
information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Given its assertion that Jones had a very
limited role in the process, preparing her to testify would likely not be
burdensome or time-consuming.  Neither
has Defendant identified any circumstance or need to protect Defendant or Jones
from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression.
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Motion
to Quash is DENIED.  Defendant is ordered
to produce Jones for deposition, which shall take place within two weeks from
the date of this Order.
 
RFAs Motion
A motion to compel further responses may be brought
based on responses to requests for admission that: (1) provide evasive or
incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a).)  
 
Motions to compel further responses must always be
accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040)
demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.”  (Id., §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2),
2033.290(b).)  They must also be
accompanied by a separate statement containing the requests and the responses,
verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response is warranted.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  The separate statement must also be complete
in itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by reference.  (Id.,
rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            Here, Defendant served its Third Set
of Requests for Admission (containing 21 RFAs) on July 12, 2024, but Defendant
contends that Plaintiff failed to either admit or deny 13 of the 21 RFAs,
specifically RFA Nos. 25-32 and 35-39.  (Declaration
of Jordyn Ostroff in Support of RFAs Motion, ¶ 2; Exhs. 1 and 2.)  Defendant contends that the RFAs at issue
seek admissions regarding issues of direct relevance to the merits of Plaintiff’s
remaining claims, his alleged damages, and Defendant’s defenses, but instead of
admitting or denying them, Krug provided “evasive or incomplete” answers,
consisting of only objections—in response to 12 of them, and totally failed to
address another one of them.  (Id.)

 
            In opposition, Plaintiff objected to
RFA Nos. 27-31 and 35-39 on the ground that, in addition to being harassing,
they seek information that is not admissible and could not possibly lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  More
specifically, Plaintiff contends that RFA Nos. 27-31, and 35-39 seek admissions
or denials pertaining to Plaintiff’s private emails with friends which are not
relevant to Plaintiff’s remaining claims for retaliation and failure to
investigate.  Plaintiff argues that the
references in the RFAs to private emails that have nothing to do with the
issues in the case will be paraded in front of a jury for the purpose of
prejudicing them against Plaintiff, confusing the issues, and misleading the
jury.  Plaintiff cites Evidence Code
section 352 which permits a court to “exclude evidence if its probative value
is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a)
necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.”  Plaintiff further asserts that the question
of whether Defendant may rely on the subject emails has already been delegated
to an arbitrator for a final and binding determination, pursuant to the
grievance initiated by Plaintiff seeking to assert his right to email privacy.
 
            The Court agrees that RFA Nos. 27-31
and 35-39 are not reasonably calculated to the discovery of admissible evidence.  While the subject emails may be relevant to assessing
Plaintiff’s offenses in relation to his now-dismissed harassment claims, Defendant
has not established the relevance of the subject emails to Plaintiff’s
remaining claims for retaliation and failure to investigate.  As Plaintiff puts it: “This is a case about
retaliation and failure to prevent or correct it.  It is not a case about whether Plaintiff is a
racist, or whether the language he uses in private emails to his friends is
appropriate.”  Thus, the RFAs Motion is denied
as to RFA Nos. 27-31 and 35-39.
 
Plaintiff
also objects to RFA Nos. 25, 26 and 32, arguing that the language used in them
is contradictory, confusing or compound. 
The Court disagrees and finds that RFA Nos. 25, 26 and 32 are
straightforward propositions regarding whether certain things occurred and are
relevant to Plaintiff’s retaliation and failure to investigate claims.  
 
Accordingly,
the RFAs Motion is DENIED in part (as to RFA Nos. 27-31 and 35-39), and GRANTED
in part (as to RFA Nos. 25, 26 and 32).  The
Court orders Plaintiff to serve verified further responses to Defendant’s RFA
Nos. 25, 26 and 32 within two weeks of this Order. 
 
SIs/FIs Motion
Under
CCP section 2030.300, on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) an answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the
option to produce documents under CCP section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) an objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. (CCP § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
 
Here,
on July 12, 2024, Defendant served its Fourth Set of Special Interrogatories
(containing 14 SIs), and FI No. 17.1 that accompanied a Third Set of RFAs.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to
substantively respond to any of the 14 SIs and to FI No. 17.1, even though he
denied 8 of the 21 RFAs served with that FI. 
(Declaration of Jordyn Ostroff in Support of SIs/FIs Motion, ¶ 2; Exhs.
1-4.)  Defendant contends the
interrogatories at issue are directly relevant to the merits of Plaintiff’s
remaining claims, his alleged damages, and Defendant’s defenses.  More specifically, Defendant asserts that it
needs to have information from Plaintiff regarding (1) information about how, and
through whom, Plaintiff experienced retaliation (SI Nos. 100-105); information about
how Defendant failed to prevent, investigate, and remedy retaliation against
Plaintiff (SI Nos. 106-111); (3) information about what Faculty Athletics
Representative (“FAR”) duties Plaintiff could not perform (SI No. 112); and (4)
information regarding the timing of meetings Plaintiff had with administrators
during the relevant time period (SI No. 113). 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that all of the information sought is duplicative
and cumulative of information Plaintiff has already provided in this case.  Plaintiff then pointed out to various
documents and sources of information and specified in detail where and when Plaintiff
has previously provided in multiple ways the information sought under the
subject interrogatories.  (Opposition,
pp. 7-8.)
 
In
reply, Defendant fails to rebut Plaintiff’s assertion and instead asserts that
whether Plaintiff has already answered other discovery in this case has no
bearing on whether the non-substantive responses he served to the interrogatories
at issue in this SIs/FIs Motion are sufficient.  (Reply, p. 1)
 
The
Court finds that the requested information is unreasonably cumulative and that
compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses would be unduly burdensome.  Thus, the SIs/FIs Motion is denied with
respect to the SIs.
 
Regarding
FI No. 17.1, in view of the Court’s finding above that Plaintiff should be
compelled to provide further responses to RFA Nos. 25, 26 and 32, Plaintiff is
ordered to provide a full and complete response to FI No. 17.1, should his
responses to RFA Nos. 25, 26 and 32 consist of anything but unqualified
admissions.
 
Accordingly,
the SIs/FIs Motion is DENIED in part (as to the SIs) and GRANTED in part (as to
FI No. 17.1).  The Court orders Plaintiff
to serve further responses to FI No. 17.1 to the extent appropriate, within two
weeks of this Order.
RFPs
Motion
Under CCP section
2031.310, subdivision (c), a motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability
to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (CCP § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  A motion to compel further production must set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.  (CCP § 2031.310 subd.
(b)(1); Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 234-35.)  To establish
good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence
in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove
or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.  (Digital Music
News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)
 
Here, on July 12, 2024, Defendant
served its Third Set of Requests for Production (containing five RFPs).  (Declaration of Jeffrey Payne in Support of
RFPs Motion, ¶ 2; Exhs. 1.)  Defendant
contends that Plaintiff failed to produce documents responsive to the subject
RFPs and instead provided boilerplate objections.  Defendant seeks the production of (1) Plaintiff’s
communications with the four declarants (i.e., Gerald Beer, Dan Bridges,
Melissa Basalla, and Keith Kravitz) who submitted declarations on his behalf in
support of his opposition to Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication (RFP
No. 70); (2) documents and communications regarding Krug’s mental and physical
health from 2010 to the present (RFP Nos. 71 and 72); and (3) documents and
communications regarding his contentions that CSU retaliated against him and failed
to prevent, investigate, or remedy harassment (RFP Nos. 73 and 74).  
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends that the RFPs Motion is moot since on August 20, 2024, Plaintiff
produced 458 pages of documents, including documents listed as responsive to RFP
Nos. 71, 72, 73 and 74.  Then on August
27, 2024, Plaintiff produced 425 pages of updated psychotherapy treatment and
billing records.  (Declaration of
Catherine Coble in Support of Opposition to RFPs Motion, ¶¶ 7-11, Exhs. B and
E.)  
 
In his Supplemental
Responses to the RFPs, Plaintiff did confirm that “[a]fter conducting a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry all responsive documents in Plaintiff’s
possession, custody and control have been previously produced to Defendant”,
and identified the responsive documents by Bates numbers.   (Id.,
Exh. C.)  
 
The Court thus finds that
the RFPs Motion is MOOT.
 
Monetary
Sanctions
The
Court finds that monetary sanctions are not warranted and thus declines to
issue sanctions in connection with the Motions.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 7th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



