  Case Number:  21CMCV00087    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  A 21CMCV00087
 Michael Buck, John Gonzales v. Peace Apostolic Church, Inc., et al.
Tuesday,
 October 31, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
 IN PART AND DENYING IN PART DEFENDANTS’
 JOINT MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR ALTERNATIVELY FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint
filed on April 20, 2021, alleges that Plaintiffs, Michael Buck, and John
Gonzalez (“Plaintiffs”), are members and leaders of the Peace Apostolic Church,
Inc. (the “Church”). Plaintiffs allege that after the death of the Church’s
Pastor, Defendants, Tamara Swancy-Prince (“Prince”) and Priscilla Woods Brown
(“Brown”), alleged to be de facto officers or directors of the Church,
improperly spent church funds, and engaged in other misconduct. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants refuse to permit Plaintiffs to inspect corporate
records. Plaintiffs 13 causes of action for declaratory relief, to enforce
their rights to inspect corporate records, breach of fiduciary duty,
conversion, fraud, and related claims.
       On August 5,
2021, the Court sustained demurrer to the seventh cause of action for
conversion and the eighth cause of action for unjust enrichment. Plaintiffs
elected not to amend those claims. Accordingly, the seventh and eighth causes
of action are not at issue in Defendants’ motion. 
       Defendants argue
that they are entitled to judgment or adjudication in their favor with respect
to the remaining causes of action. Plaintiffs argue that triable issues of fact
remain to warrant denial of the motion. The Court has considered the motion,
opposition, and reply briefs and all evidence and documents in support thereof.
II.     
LEGAL STANDARDS
       Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) As the moving party,
Plaintiff’s burden is to produce admissible evidence on each element of a cause
of action entitling him or her to judgment. (§437c(p)(1).) If that threshold
burden is established, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show a
triable issue of one or more material facts. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(1).)
       A
party may move for summary adjudication “as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, [or] that there is no merit to a claim for [punitive] damages.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c. subd.(f)(1).)
       The
court applies the three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or
adjudication: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine
whether the moving party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim,
(3) if the moving party meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden
shifts, determine whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with
admissible evidence. (Torres
v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.)

III.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Evidentiary objections
1)      Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Martin Prince (member of the congregation and
deacon on the Deacon Board since 1994)
              All
objections are OVERRULED. Based on his personal knowledge, Martin Prince
attests to the members of the Deacons of the Church and documents and provided the
Deacon Board with the Role of the Deacon and the Deacon handbook. Martin Prince
attests the Church did not draft or adopt subsequent Bylaws after Pastor
Swancy’s death. 
 
2)      Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Tamara Prince (Chief Executive Officer and
President of the Church.)
 
              All
objections are OVERRULED. Prince attests to the Church’s business records, and
that she and Brown were the only directors of the Church. Prince alone was the
only member of the Church Board of Directors. Prince attests to the March 4, 2011,
Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation and the April 14, 2021, Amended and
Restated Bylaws that state the corporation has no members. In 2023, Prince and
Brown appointed additional directors for a total of seven directors. 
 
 
3)      Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Lisa Runquist (Defendants’ expert on nonprofit
governance law). 
 
              Objections
Nos. 2, 16, 17 are SUSTAINED. Legal conclusion. Ms. Runquist opines on the
effect of state law with respect to whether a corporation has members and
whether the Articles or Bylaws are “dispositive.” The effect of Cal
Corporations Code §§§ 5056, and 9332 are also legal conclusions. The remaining objections
are OVERRULED. Ms. Runquist attests to the filing of the 2011 Amendment and the
2021 Restated Articles filed with the Secretary of State. She attests to the
confusion of the concept of “members” apart from corporate members, or the
voting rights accorded to those members. She explains the bases for her opinion
that the Church does not have “members” within the meaning of the statute. 
 
4)      Defendants’
objections to the deposition testimony of Marcelle Haymond, a “long time church
leader.” (Decl. of Matthew B. Learned). 
              All
objections are OVERRULED. Ms. Haymond attests to the existence of a different
set of Member Bylaws (the “Unsigned Bylaws”; Ex. 1 to her deposition), indicating
that the Church has statutory “members.” She declares that Pastor Swancy
referred to this set as “his bylaws.” 
 
5)      Defendants’
objections to the Declaration of Howard Woods, son of Defendant, Priscilla
Woods Brown and the godson of Pastor Swancy and his personal assistant, who was
hired as an independent contractor for the Church.
 
              OVERRULED
as to ¶¶ 4-6. Howard Woods attests he used his mother’s Church credit card to
take care of Church administrative needs and used it for personal needs in lieu
of payment for his work. He attests to the use of the Church credit cards for
items other than Church expenses. 
              SUSTAINED
as to ¶¶ 7, 8, 9 Based on information and belief. 
              SUSTAINED,
irrelevant as to ¶ 2 in part, ¶ 3, which attests to Howard Woods’ relationship
with Pastor Swancy and how he came to live at the Church residence. 
 
6)     
Defendants’ objections to Plaintiffs’ request
for judicial notice. 
              SUSTAINED.
February 24, 1989, letter written by Brown to the IRS concerning the Church’s
operation and governance. This letter is not an official act of an executive,
legislative, or judicial department of the state. (However, it would be
admissible as an admission by a party.) 
              OVERRULED
as to the Court’s orders appointing a limited receiver, request for preliminary
injunction, and Defendants’ answer filed August 16, 2021. (Evid. Code, §451(d):
court records.)
B.     
The complaints’ allegations.
       Plaintiffs
allege that from 1990 through January 2021, Defendants made material
misrepresentations and false assurances that Plaintiffs’ donations to the
Church would be used to support the Church’s charitable and religious purposes.
The misrepresentations were made on the Church’s website and at Church services
through the use of donation envelopes. (UF[1]
9, 11, 12.) Plaintiffs allege injury and monetary damages as a result of their
reliance on the misrepresentations by Prince, Woods, the Church’s website, and
envelopes that church donations would be for the Church’s and not individual
benefit. (UF 10, 15, 16.) 
       The Church
purchased a “key man” insurance policy, payable on Pastor Swancy’s death.  The Church was named a beneficiary (UF 17.)
Plaintiffs assert that Brown and Prince used the insurance policy for their
personal benefit and not for Church benefit. (UF 18.) However, Plaintiffs do
not dispute that neither Prince or Brown or their family members have any
portion of the death benefits paid under the policy. The Church retains full
control and ownership of those benefits (UF 21, 22.) Plaintiffs do not proffer any
evidence disputing that Plaintiff Buck lacks information as to how the
insurance benefits were spent. (UF 24.) 
       The alleged misuse of the insurance
policy benefits represents a portion of the Plaintiffs’ alleged damages. The
Court cannot adjudicate only part of a claim for damages. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)
C.      Adjudication
of the claim for declaratory relief as to Plaintiffs’ right to inspect records
and enforcement of membership rights is GRANTED.
       Defendants
argue that since Plaintiffs are not Church “members” as established by the operative
Bylaws and Articles of Incorporation and for purposes of the Corporations Code,
Plaintiffs do not have a right to inspect records, nor do they have membership
rights to enforce. Plaintiffs argue that for purposes of declaratory relief,
they only have to establish an actual controversy; they do not have to prove that
their allegations are correct. 
       In pertinent
part, a declaratory relief action may be brought by a person interested under a
written instrument, who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, in cases of
actual controversy. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1060.) A motion for summary
judgment “may be deployed to ‘cut through the pleadings.” (Qualified
Patients Assn. v. City of Anaheim (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 734, 752.)
In other words, whether Plaintiffs are entitled to declaratory relief at this
stage depends on whether the facts material to that determination are in
dispute. 
       The accounting
books, records, and minutes of proceedings of the members and the board “shall
be open to inspection upon the written demand on the corporation of any member”
except as otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws. (Corp.
Code, § 9512.) A “member” may also inspect and copy the record of all the
members’ names, addresses, and voting rights upon written demand “except as
otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws.” (Corp.
Code, § 9511.)  A “member” means “any
person who, pursuant to a specific provision of a corporation’s articles or
bylaws, has the right to vote for a director, or disposition of all or
substantially all of the corporation’s assets.” “Member” also means any person “designated
in the articles or bylaws as a member and, pursuant to a specific provision of
a corporation’s articles or bylaws, has the right to vote on changes to the
articles or bylaws.” (Corp.
Code, § 5056.)
       While a
corporation may refer to persons associated with it as “members” although not
members within the meaning of Section 5056, references to “members” for
purposes of the Corporations Code means as defined in Section 5056.  (Corp.
Code, § 9332.) In the absence of any provision in a corporation’s articles
or bylaws providing for members, “a corporation shall have no members.” (Corp.
Code, § 9310.)
       Defendants rely
on the (original) 1985 Bylaws; however, the document is missing a page.  (UF 43, 46, Defendants’ Ex. 25.) Article VI of
the first page ends mid-sentence. The following page is in a different font and
concludes with the signatures of Paster Swancy as president and Cynthia Swancy
as Vice President. The remaining pages do not expressly designate members with
voting rights and the right to dispose of assets.
       However, the
1985 Bylaws expressly vests corporate powers in the President and Vice
President only. (Defendant’s Ex. 25.) Moreover, the President “shall sign all
contracts and other instruments and shall preside over all meetings, and
whosoever is appointed by the President only.” (Id.)
The language is inconsistent with an intent to establish board governance and
voting memberships. 
       Pastor Swancy also signed 1985 Articles of
Incorporation (“1985 Articles,” Ex. 26). (UF 38.)  It does not designate members with voting
rights or ability to dispose of assets either. This is sufficient to carry
Defendants’ burden of production that the 1985 Bylaws did not establish voting
memberships. (UF 54.)
       Plaintiffs’
evidence does not controvert this fact. Ms. Haymond testified to the existence
of the Unsigned Bylaws purportedly adopted after the 1985 Bylaws, which was far
more detailed in its establishment of voting members as appointed by the Pastor
and ratified by the congregation. (Learned Decl., Ex. 6, Article III.) Ms.
Haymond testified that she was given this document in a meeting conducted by
Pastor Swancy sometime in 1989, and he referred to them as “my bylaws.” 
       However, those
bylaws are unsigned and undated. (Ex. 6, Art. III, page 6.) There is no
evidence they were filed with the Secretary of State. Even if the Unsigned
Bylaws were operative, Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence that they were
so appointed and ratified.   Accordingly, Defendants have established that
the 1985 Bylaws and Articles did not establish voting memberships within the
meaning of the Corporations Code. The facts material to establish that
Plaintiffs were not voting members are undisputed. (UF 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 48,
49, 54, 55.) 
       There is no
dispute that the Church subsequently amended the Articles of Incorporation in
2011, which Pastor Swancy signed in order to ordain ministers. (UF 92, 93,
“2011 Articles”). The 2011 Articles were adopted and approved by Pastor Swancy.
(UF 95.) It specifically states, “the Corporation has no members.” (Defendant’s
Ex. 29, UF 99.) There are no Church documents providing for corporate members.
(UF 100, 107). The Unsigned Bylaws proffered by Haymond do not refute this
material fact. 
       On April 24,
2021, Prince filed a Restated Articles of Incorporation specifically stating
the corporation has no members. (“2021 Restated Articles.”) (Defendants’ Ex. 30,
UF 101.) The Amended and Restated Bylaws signed April 14, 2021 (“2021 Bylaws”) signed
by Brown states that the Church “shall have no members, as the term ‘member’ is
defined in Section 5056 of the NPCL.” (“Non-Profit Corporation Law,” Defendant’s
Ex. 31; UF 115.)  
       Plaintiffs again
rely on Haymond’s deposition testimony and the Unsigned Bylaws. Plaintiffs
argue that since that version was in effect, the Articles of Incorporation
could not be amended without approval of the membership. This evidence does not
create a triable issue given that Plaintiffs have not established that the Unsigned
Bylaws were in effect as it was undated and unsigned, there is no evidence it
was filed with the Secretary of State, nor is there evidence Plaintiffs were
appointed as provided for in those Bylaws. 
       The
aforementioned undisputed material facts all establish that Plaintiffs are not
members within the meaning of the Corporations Code given the subsequent
amendments to the Bylaws by Pastor Swancy and Defendant Prince.
 
D.     Adjudication
of the second and fourth causes of action regarding Directors rights against
the Church is GRANTED.
       Defendants
argue that Plaintiff Buck was not a director of the governing body, the Board
of Directors. While he may have joined the Deacon Board in 1989, this did not
make Buck a “director” on the Church’s Board of Directors. The Deacon Board and
Board of Directors are two different entities, with the former not having powers
of corporate governance. Plaintiff Buck contends that based on the Unsigned
Bylaws, Plaintiff had the rights of a director because he was a deacon serving
on the Deacon Board.
       Directors have
the right of inspection of the corporation’s books and records, “reasonably
related to such person’s interests as a director.” (Corp.
Code, § 9513.) “Directors” are designated as such “in the articles or
bylaws or elected by the incorporators, and their successors and natural
persons designated, elected, or appointed by any other name or title to act as
members of the governing body of the corporation.” (Corp.
Code, § 5047.) If the articles or bylaws designate a person as a director
of the governing body of the corporation,
“by reason of
occupying a specified position within the corporation or outside the
corporation, without limiting that person’s right to vote as a member of the
governing body, that person shall be a director for all purposes and shall have
the same rights and obligations, including voting rights, as the other
directors. A person who does not have authority to vote as a member of the
governing body of the corporation, is not a director as that term is used in
this division regardless of title.” (Corp.
Code, § 5047.)
       The
undisputed material facts discussed previously establish that Plaintiff Buck
was not a “member” of the governing body (as opposed to the congregation) with
authority to vote as defined by the Corporations Code. Therefore, he is not a
“director” pursuant to section 5047. 
       The
1985 Articles and Bylaws and the 2011 Articles did not create a Board of
Directors. It was not until the 2021 Articles signed by Prince, that the Church
business and affairs would be formally managed under a Board of Directors.
(Defendant’s Ex. 30.) 
       Plaintiffs
do not dispute that the Church had a Deacon Board since the early 1990s. (UF
136.) There is no dispute that according to the Deacon Handbook, the deacons
assist the pastor and functions as the pastor may direct them. (UF 148, 149,
150.) Plaintiffs do not offer any evidence to controvert these facts. The
Deacon Board gives counsel to but does not have control of all committee
actions. (UF 152.) The Deacon Board is separate from the Church’s Board of
Directors (UF 155.) The Unsigned Bylaws submitted by Plaintiffs do not
controvert these facts. 
       Plaintiffs
argue that the Deacon Board had a significant leadership role, that the Pastor
consulted with them regarding amendments to the Bylaws and other decisions.
This does not establish that the Deacon Board has equivalent governing powers
as the Board of Directors. 
 
E.     
Adjudication of the fifth cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty is GRANTED. 
       To
prevail on a claim for breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiffs must establish (1)
the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) breach of that duty, (3)
causation, and (4) damages caused by that breach. (Mosier v. Southern
California Physicians Insurance Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022; Pierce
v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1101.) The absence of any one of these
elements is fatal to the cause of action. Id. 
       The complaint
alleges that that Defendants’ solicitation and receipt of Plaintiffs’ donations
obligated Defendants, as fiduciaries, to use those charitable contributions for
the declared charitable and religious purpose for which they were sought and
donated. As set forth in Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17510.8, 
"there exists a
fiduciary relationship between a charity or any person soliciting on behalf of
a charity, and the person from whom a charitable contribution is being
solicited. The acceptance of charitable contributions by a charity or any
person soliciting on behalf of a charity establishes a charitable trust and a
duty on the part of the charity and the person soliciting on behalf of the
charity to use those charitable contributions for the declared charitable
purposes for which they are sought. This section is declarative of existing
trust law principles." (Id.) 
 
       There
is an exception to the foregoing section as it does not apply “to
solicitations, sales, offers, or attempts to sell within the membership of a
charitable organization or upon its regular occupied premises.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17510.6.) Plaintiffs cite Cohen
v. Kabbalah Centre Internat., Inc. (2019) 35 Cal.App. 5th
13 for the proposition that even though the Church is a charitable
organization, the exception applies to “statutory” members of the organization.
Plaintiffs contend that Defendants cannot argue that Plaintiffs are not
statutory members for purposes of inspection, but statutory members for the
purpose of the section 17510.6 exception. 
       As Defendants
observe in reply, Cohen makes no distinction between “statutory” or “non-statutory
members;” plaintiff was a member of the Kabbalah center, a charitable
organization, and therefore, section 17510.6 applied. Plaintiffs argue that
since Kabbalah was not a religious organization, the case is distinguishable.   A “charity” is “any nonprofit community
organization, fraternal, benevolent, educational, philanthropic, or service
organization, or governmental employee organization which, solicits or obtains
contributions solicited from the public for charitable purposes.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17510.2 (d).) Plaintiff’s argument is
unpersuasive.  A “charitable
organization” does not exclude a religious organization.
 
F.      
Adjudication of sixth cause of action for an
accounting is DENIED. 
       A claim for an
accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff
and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due to the
plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) All that is
required is that “some relationship exists that requires an accounting.” (Kritzer
v. Lancaster (1950) 96 Cal.App.2d 1, 7, 214 P.2d 407.) The right to an
accounting can arise from the possession by the defendant of money or property
which, because of the defendant's relationship with the plaintiff, the
defendant is obliged to surrender.” (Teselle at 179-180.)
       Defendants argue
that there is no evidence that any of the Defendants possess money that they
are obliged to surrender or that was owed to Plaintiffs. The tithes and
donations are not “due” to Plaintiffs from Defendants. 
       Whether
Defendants personally possess any of the donations donated by Plaintiffs or
whether Defendants owe Plaintiffs money are not material to establish whether
Plaintiffs are entitled to an accounting. (See UF 413.)
 
G.    
Adjudication of the ninth cause of action for
fraudulent concealment is DENIED.
       A claim for
fraudulent concealment must be supported by evidence to support the following
elements: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact,
(2) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (3)the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (4) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage. (Rodenberry v. Rodenberry (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 634, 665.) 
       Concealment is established
when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the
plaintiff; when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the
plaintiff; and when the defendant makes partial representations but also
suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997)
52 Cal. App. 4th 326, 336.)
       Where a
fiduciary relationship does not exist between the parties, the claim will arise
in the following circumstances: “(1) the defendant makes representations but
does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or which
render his disclosure likely to mislead;  2) the
facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are
not known to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant actively conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Warner
Constr. Corp. v. L.A. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294.)
       Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants made representations that the donations would be used to
support the Church’s charitable and religious purposes, and not for the
personal benefit of any private individual or Church directors of officers
including their agents, Prince, and Brown. (Complaint, ¶ 83-85.) 
       Defendants admit
that they solicit donations through donation envelopes or through an online
portal. (UF 393.) The donation envelope and online portal state that the Pastor
reserves the right to direct all funds to the “area of ministry most needed.” (UF
395, 397.) Whether the individual defendants had personal discussions about
tithing with the Plaintiffs is not material, given the allegations of the
complaint. Nor is it relevant whether Prince or Brown were involved with
creating the envelopes or personally received funds “directly from Plaintiffs.”
(Fact 410-418.) Defendants admit that the Church paid for a $6,000 mileage
overage by Prince on her BMW. (UF 419.) 
       Defendants focus
on the Church’s payments for the Pastor’s and his wife’s burial expenses, and
expenses incurred by Pastor Swancy for his birthday or office and Plaintiffs’
knowledge of these expenses, while avoiding the express allegations of misuse
of funds by Prince and Brown. Plaintiffs allege that the Church purchased at
least one high-end car for Prince, Brown, and/or members of their family; reimbursement
for excessive gas mileage for non-church business; excessive wages or salaries
to Prince and her family; and the rental of luxury executive suites at the
Staples Center for the benefit of Defendants and their families. (Complaint, ¶ 29
(a) – (d).)
       Defendants narrowly
focused facts proffered by Defendants do not dispose of the entire claim, which
was not confined to the Pastor’s use of Church funds. To the extent Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs continue to tithe to this day, negating the element of
justifiable reliance, is disputed by Defendants own material facts. On the one
hand, Defendants contend that Buck continues to donate and tithe to the church
but stopped giving tithes in the same amount as before 2021. (UF 399 and Fact
400.) Justifiable reliance and resulting damage cannot be adjudicated on these
facts. 
 
H.     Adjudication
of the claim for (10) intentional and (11) negligent misrepresentation is
DENIED.
 
       Negligent
misrepresentation requires proof of the following elements: (1) a duty owed to
Plaintiffs, (2) Defendants false statement of a material fact honestly believed
to be true but without reasonable grounds for such belief, (3) Defendants
intended to induce Plaintiffs’ reliance and Plaintiffs so rely; (4) Plaintiffs
sustained damages as a proximate result. (Cicone v. URS Corp (1986) 183
Cal.App.3d 194.) Intentional misrepresentation differs in that the claim is
based on a knowingly false statement of fact with intent to reduce reliance. (Nagy v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1262,
1268.)
       Defendants
rely on the same material facts narrowly focused on Swancy’s conduct and use of
Church funds, while ignoring material allegations relevant to Prince’s and
Brown’s alleged misuse of funds for non-Church business. Defendants have not
met their burden of proving they are entitled to adjudication of these claims.  
 
I.       
Adjudication of the claim for (12) unfair
business practices and (13) violation of false advertising law (“UCL”) is
DENIED. 
 
       To
support the 12th cause of action, Plaintiffs must allege an unlawful,
fraudulent, unfair, deceptive, untrue act or misleading advertising by
Defendants, Plaintiffs’ right to restitution, if any, and Plaintiffs’ right to
injunctive relief, if any. The Section 17200 claim “'borrows' violations of
other laws and treats these violations, when committed pursuant to business
activity, as unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et
seq. and subject to the distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 377, 383.) 
       The 13th
cause of action for false advertising also bars the making of untrue and
misleading statements that are known, or in the exercise of reasonable care
should be known to be untrue or misleading. (Bus. Prof. Code § 17500.) These
claims are based on Defendants’ solicitation of donations under the pretense
that the donations would be used for the Church’s charitable and religious
purpose, and not for the benefit of any private individual. (Complaint
108-109.) 
       Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs are not “consumers” for purposes of the UCL, and liability is
based on the “unbridled control” over the practices that are found to violate
sections 17200 or 17500 citing Facts 409-417. Those facts deny any discussions
by Prince or Brown with Plaintiffs with creating envelopes or the donation website,
or whether they received funds directly from Plaintiffs’, which is
irrelevant. As before, Defendants do not proffer evidence to negate the
material facts alleged in the complaint concerning their use of Church funds
for their own benefit. 
       Defendants’
claim that Plaintiffs are not “consumers” and therefore lack standing to bring
a claim under the UCL is not supported. The test of a cause of action is “whether
the advertising is such that 'members of the public are likely to be deceived.’”
(People
v. Orange County Charitable Services (1999) 87 Cal.Rptr.2d 253.) The
laws “prohibit any unfair, deceptive or unlawful business or other practice
violating false advertising laws.” (Id. at 1076.)
Therefore, in Orange County Charitable Services, the court concluded
that the law “undoubtedly appl[ies] to representations made by fundraisers with
the intent of obtaining charitable solicitations. (Id. at
1075.) 
       Defendants’ argument that they
cannot be vicariously liable under the UCL is confusing. Plaintiffs sued all
Defendants for their conduct with respect to their use of Church funds as
officers and directors of the Church, which acts were contrary to the Church’s
Articles of Incorporation. 
       Fraudulent conduct for purposes of
Section 17200 is much easier to show than in a common law fraud claim. There is
no showing of intent, scienter, actual reliance, or damages.  All that needs to be shown is that members of
the public are likely to be deceived by the defendant’s conduct. (Committee
on Children’s Television v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 211.)
Moreover, the independent, unfairness prong of the statute is
"intentionally broad, thus allowing courts maximum discretion to prohibit
new schemes to defraud. … An unfair business practice occurs when the practice
‘offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral,
unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.'
[Citation.]" (Podolsky v. First Healthcare Corp. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 632, 647.)
       A claim under the UCL “is a separate
equitable cause of action.” (Hodge
v. Superior Court (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 278, 284.)
Only restitution and injunctive relief are available. (State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal. App. 4th 1093, 1110.) Defendants have not persuasively argued with
authority that Plaintiffs do not have a “vested interest” in donations made for
charitable purposes that were allegedly misused through unfair, fraudulent, or
misleading practices or advertising. Commercial fundraisers (any individual,
corporation or legal entity who for compensation solicits funds for charitable
purposes) are “constructive trustees” with respect to the funds they raise. (Orange County Charitable Services at
1075.) Whether Plaintiffs
are entitled to disgorgement of ill-gotten gains or an injunction against
further deceptive practices cannot be adjudicated on the facts proffered by
Defendants, whether or not in dispute. 
 
J.       
Adjudication
of the claim for punitive damages against all Defendants is DENIED. 
       A
claim for punitive damages against a religious corporation cannot be included
in a complaint without leave of Court. The Court must find that the plaintiff
has clear and convincing evidence to support the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.14.) Defendants argue that Plaintiffs did not seek leave of Court prior to
including these allegations in the Complaint. Asserting a procedural defect,
which Defendants did not attempt to cure by way of a motion to strike, is not a
basis for summary adjudication. Defendants’ burden is to establish that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that Defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law
(Code Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(2).) 
       Additionally,
Plaintiffs assert a claim for punitive damages against all Defendants,
including the Church. The Court cannot adjudicate part of a claim for punitive
damages. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. The alternative
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED in part as to the first through
fifth causes of action, and DENIED as to the sixth, and ninth through 13th
causes of action. 


