  Case Number:  22STCV23442    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/12/24     Case    Name: Krystal Shin, by and through GAL You Sun Jang v. City of Los    Angeles, et al.     Case    # 22STCV23442      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 12, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT  PLAYCORE WISCONSIN INC.’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S DEMAND FOR  PRODUCTION, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 22STCV23442    Motion  filed: 9/27/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Krystal Shin, by and through  her parent and guardian ad litem (“GAL”) You Sun Jang (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant PlayCore Wisconsin Inc.  (“Defendant” or “PlayCore”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Defendant PlayCore to produce further  responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production, Set One, Nos. 1 - 42, and  imposing monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,400.00 against PlayCore and its  counsel jointly and severally.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The monetary sanction is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from injuries sustained by a 5-year-old  Plaintiff on February 20, 2022, allegedly caused by the playground equipment  located at a Los Angeles City Community Park, 11075 Foothill Boulevard in Lake  View Terrace, California 91432 (the “Park”).   On July 20, 2022, Plaintiff initiated the present action against  Defendants City of Los Angeles, and Does 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges  the following causes of action: (1) dangerous condition of public property, (2)  negligence, and (3) strict liability.   On September 16, 2022, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed its  Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 to 20 for (1)  apportionment of fault, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) indemnification.   On February 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Amended Complaint,  substituting Defendant PlayCore for Doe 1.    On February 16, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed  its Answer.               On March  13, 2023, Defendant PlayCore filed its Answer to the Complaint.                On  September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to compel Defendant  PlayCore to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Productions,  Set One. Subsequently, PlayCore filed its Opposition on February 28, 2024, and  Plaintiff replied on March 1, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.310 subdivision (a) provides, “On receipt of a response to a demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an  order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems  that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the  demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is  inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is  without merit or too general.”   Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.310 subdivision (h) provides, in part, that “Except as provided in subdivision (j) [inapplicable here],  the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing  with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a  demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.” (Underlines added.) A.     All  Procedural Requirements Are Met   1.       45-Day Rule “Unless notice of this motion  [to compel further responses to production of documents] is given within 45  days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified  response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding  party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party  waives any right to compel a further response to the demand for productions.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)   Plaintiff filed and served this  Motion on September 27, 2023, within 45 days of receiving Defendant PlayCore’s  supplemental responses to the Demand for Production, Set One, on September 15,  2023. (See Nazdjanova Decl., ¶ 12, 9/27/23 Proof of Service.)  2.       Meet and Confer A motion to compel further  responses to demand for productions must be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)               Plaintiff engaged in the required meet  and confer process with Defendant PlayCore before filing the instant Motion. Efforts  to resolve the discovery dispute included a meet and confer letter on August 7,  2023, detailing deficiencies in PlayCore’s initial response, followed by a  second meet and confer letter on September 19, 2023, requesting supplemental  responses. (Nazdjanova Decl., ¶ 6, 13.)                Therefore, the meet and confer  requirements per Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (b)(1)  are satisfied.   3.       Separate Statement A motion to compel further  responses to a demand for production must be accompanied by a separate  statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) “A separate statement is a  separate document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all  the information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the  responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) Plaintiff  has met the above requirement by filing a separate statement explaining the demand  for production at issue, Defendant PlayCore’s responses, and why further  responses are necessary.   B.      Plaintiff  Sufficiently Demonstrates Defendant PlayCore’s Further Responses are Warranted    1.       Supplemental Responses Dated September 15, 2023 The Court notes that PlayCore’s supplemental responses,  dated September 15, 2023, provided uniform answers to the demand for production  at issue. Specifically, each supplemental response reiterates,    “Objections:  Responding  party asserts all general and specific objections previously asserted all off  prior discovery; further objects on the grounds that the propounding party  refused a request for a time extension of time to respond to the instant  discovery based on the full disclosure to opposing counsel of the unavailable  of responding party to review and verify' said responses and that responding  party's attorneys are engaged to commence a multi-party trial with a month-long  trial estimate. In the spirit of discovery and cooperation, Propounding Party  was given a lengthy extension to file any motion to compel, if necessary, if  the discovery matter could not be resolved informally. Propounding party,  therefore, is acting bad faith and non-compliance with local court guidelines  for civility in litigation. Additionally, Propounding party's counsel served a  Notice of Unavailability which opposing counsel expects to be honored.”   Plaintiff correctly points out that “[Plaintiff] refused a  request for a time extension of time to respond ... and that [PlayCore’s]  attorneys are engaged to commence a multi-party trial with a month-long trial  estimate” does not warranty a failure to provide code-compliant responses. A  review of the records indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel had previously granted  a 30-day extension around the end of June 2023 (See Nazdjanov Decl., ¶ 4), and subsequently granted an  additional three-week extension on September 5, 2023. (Id., ¶ 9.)  Consequently, while the Court acknowledges that parties should make efforts to  resolve discovery issues, including those related to scheduling and  availability, it determines that Plaintiff is not obligated to grant any  additional time extensions and did not act in bad faith in refusing the request  from Defendant.   Since  PlayCore’s supplemental responses did not provide material answers beyond the  boilerplate objection. The Court now proceeds to review the answers and  objections provided in its initial response dated August 4, 2023. (Nazdjanova  Decl., Ex. “B.”)   2.       Responses  Dated August 4, 2023   Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, a party whom a demand for  production has been directed shall respond by any of the following: (1) a  statement that the party will comply with the particular demand; (2) a  representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand; and  (3) an objection to the particular demand.   Furthermore, a representation  of inability to comply with the particular demand “shall also specify whether  the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never  existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never  been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding  party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person  or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or  control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)   Here,  for Demand for Production Nos 4, 6, and 17, PlayCore answered “A reasonably  diligent search and inquiry for non-privileged documents are continuing.”   Here,  for Demand for Production Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 19, 23, 24,  26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41 and 42, PlayCore responded: “A  reasonably diligent search and inquiry for non-privileged documents are  continuing. Please also refer to documents produced by Defendant City of Los  Angeles identified as Attachment[s].”   Here,  for Demand for Production Nos. 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 21, 22, 25, 30, 33, 36, and  39, PlayCore stated in its response, “After a reasonably diligent search and  inquiry, Responding Party is not currently aware of any documents within its  possession, custody or control which are responsive to this request.”   Defendant  PlayCore’s responses to the above-listed demands uniformly state either that “the  discovery is continuing,” or that “[PlayCore] is not currently aware of any  documents [that] are responsive to this request.” Firstly, it is evident that  these responses do not affirm PlayCore’s intention to comply with the  particular demands, per Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision  (a)(1). Secondly, the responses are ambiguous regarding PlayCore’s ability to  comply (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a)(2).) Given that PlayCore did  not identify or produce any documents in responses to the above-listed demands,  the Court notes that its responses should be interpreted to mean that PlayCore lacks  the ability to comply with the demand at the time of providing these responses.  Nevertheless, such responses still do not satisfy the specificity requirements  under the Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230.   Furthermore,  Defendant PlayCore advanced various objections to the Demand for Production,  including, but not limited to, claims that the requests were “vague, ambiguous,  and overbroad,” “not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of neither  admissible evidence at trial nor evidence relevant to the subject matter of the  action,” and that “it calls for disclosure of information  requiring confidentiality to protect  competition or other proprietary or confidential information.” (See generally  Def.’s Separate Statement)               First,  the permissible scope is broad. The Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 provides in part,  "[u]nless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this  title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privilege that is relevant to the subject  matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if  the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to  the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the  party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action."               Here,  Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges Defendant PlayCore, allegedly the playground  equipment manufacturer, is liable for negligence and strict liability.  Consequently, any information that may lead to admissible evidence regarding  PlayCore’s design, manufacture, warnings concerning the subject equipment, or  its knowledge of any incidents may fall within the scope of discoverable  information under Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010.    Consequently,  PlayCore’s mere assertion that the demand is “not reasonably calculated to lead  to the discovery of neither admissible evidence at trial nor evidence relevant  to the subject matter of the action” in its responses to demands for “design,  manufacturing procedures, tests, assembly instructions, warranty, etc.” is not  a valid objection.   Second,  the Court notes that Plaintiff’s Demand for Production, Set One, explicitly  defines that “SUBJECT PRODUCT” means “a playground equipment called ‘Tractor  Climber’ located at the Los Angeles City Community Park at 11075 Foothill  Boulevard in Lake View Terrace, County of Los Angeles, California 91342 on or  about February 20, 2022, a photograph of which is attached hereto as Exhibit  ‘A.’” (Nazdjanova Decl., Ex. “A,” at 1.) Similarly, “CHASSIS ASSEMBLY” is also  defined as “identified in the specification of the SUBJECT PRODUCT as Item No.  23, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘B.’” (Id., at 2.)    “[N]either  ambiguity nor burden are of themselves sufficient grounds for denying the right  to discovery in toto[.]” (Cembrook v. Superior Court In and For City  and County of San Francisco (1961) 56 Cal.2d 423, 428.)   Here,  the Demand for Production, Set One, sets forth a narrow definition of the  subject product, and the demands are constrained to either the specific  incident, the subject product, or the identified component, a chassis assembly,  within the subject product. Accordingly, the Court determines that the Demand  for Production, Set One, is not overbroad. And Defendant’s mere assertion that  the demands are “vague and ambiguous” is unconvincing without supporting  evidence or legal analysis.   Third,  a party who has been served with a discovery request may promptly move for a  protective order to prevent the disclosure of a trade secret or other  confidential research, development, or commercial information. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.060.) “Promptly” means before the discovery responses are due  under the applicable statutes pertaining to each method of discovery.  Furthermore, a party seeking a protective order on the basis of trade secrets  must submit a declaration containing the following information: (1)  identification of the trade secret and the documents containing such  information, (2) Declarant’s qualification to offer such opinion, and (3)  evidence supporting the argument that the information sought is trade secret. (See  Stadish v. Superior Court (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1141; Evid. Code, §§  1060-1061; Code Civ. Proc., §2031.060(b)(5).)    Here, PlayCore has not submitted any motion  for protective order. Additionally, in its responses, there is not sufficient  information that could potentially substantiate a claim for trade secret  protection. Therefore, the Court finds PlayCore’s objection based on  “confidentiality to protect competition or other [] proprietary information” to  lack merit.   Accordingly,  the Court agrees with Plaintiff that PlayCore’s responses to the above-listed  demands are not code-compliant and deficient in completeness. Furthermore,  PlayCore’s objections asserted in its responses to the Demand for Production  are deemed to lack specificity and substantiation.                Therefore,  the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel PlayCore’s Further Responses to Demand  for Production, Set One.   C.     Monetary Sanctions   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.310, subdivision (h), the Court concludes that Defendant PlayCore  and its’ counsel may be properly subjected to the monetary sanctions against  them, jointly and severally, for unsuccessfully opposing the instant Motion.               Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions  in the amount of $4,400.00 based on 11 hours of work in bringing the instant  Motion at an hourly rate of $400.00. (Nazdjanova Decl., at 13:9-13.) The Court  deems the hourly rate reasonable but adjusts the total number of hours to a  reasonable 5 hours, encompassing 3 hours for drafting the Motion, 1.5 hours for  reviewing the Opposition and preparing the Reply, and 0.5 hours anticipated for  attending the hearing. This adjustment results in a total of $2,000.00,  calculated based on $400/hr. x 5 hours.               Therefore, the Court GRANTS IN PART  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions, awarding a total amount of $2,000.00.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant  PlayCore’s Further Responses to Demand for  Production, Set One, Nos. 1 - 42 is GRANTED.   Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary  Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   Defendant PlayCore is ordered to  provide supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production, Set One,  Nos. 1-42, within 15 days.   Defendant PlayCore and its  counsel are further ordered to pay Plaintiff monetary sanctions, jointly and  severally, in the amount of $2,000.00 within 10 days.   Moving party to give notice.  