 Case Number:  24STCP03511    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




in re:

   nobility settlement funding, llc

   ;
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
 


Case
  No.:


24STCP03511




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
first amended petition for approval of
  transfer of structured settlement payment rights
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner Nobility Settlement
Funding, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
First Amended Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured
Settlement Payment Rights
The court
considered the First Amended Petition. 
No opposition papers were filed. 
BACKGROUND
Claimant Amy Lucier (“Lucier”)
settled an action and received certain structured settlement payment
rights.  (First Amended Pet. filed Nov.
19, 2024 (“Pet.”), ¶ 3.)  Lucier has
agreed to sell, and petitioner Nobility Settlement Funding, LLC (“Petitioner”)
has agreed to purchase, 339 monthly payments of $1,337.47, beginning on
December 15, 2024 and continuing through February 15, 2053, totaling
$453,402.33.  (Pet., Ex. 2, Transfer
Agreement, ¶ 9.)  Lucier will receive
$155,000 in exchange for the transfer of the payment rights described above.  (Ibid.) 
Petitioner now seeks court
approval of the transfer agreement pursuant to Insurance Code section 10134 et
seq.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“A direct or indirect transfer
of structured settlement payment rights is not effective and a structured
settlement obligor or annuity issuer is not required to make any payment
directly or indirectly to any transferee of structured settlement payment
rights” unless the court approves the transfer in advance.¿ (Ins. Code, §
10139.5, subd. (a).)¿ To approve the settlement, the court must make express
written findings that:¿¿¿ 

The transfer is in the best interest of the payee, taking into
     account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek
     independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either
     received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to
     receive the advice.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The transferee has complied with the notification requirements
     pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided
     the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the
     transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order
     of any court or other government authority.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The payee understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including
     the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section
     10136.¿¿¿¿¿ 


The payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee’s
     right to cancel the transfer agreement.¿¿¿¿¿ 

(Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd.
(a)(1)-(6).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
“When determining whether the
proposed transfer should be approved, including whether the transfer is fair,
reasonable, and in the payee’s best interest, taking into account the welfare
and support of the payee’s dependents, the court shall consider the totality of
the circumstances,” including the 15 circumstances set forth in Insurance Code
§ 10139.5, subdivision (b)(1)-(15).¿
 
 
DISCUSSION
Based on the First Amended Petition and its attachments, the court
finds and orders as follows. 
First, the court finds that the transfer is in the best interest of
Lucier.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd.
(a)(1).)  If approved, Lucier will use
the funds received to relocate out of California and purchase a home.  (Lucier Decl., ¶ 11.)  Lucier is 29 years old, married, is not
employed, does not have any dependents, and has no court-ordered child support
obligations.  (Lucier Decl., ¶¶ 3-7.) 
Second, the court finds that Lucier has been advised in writing by
Petitioner to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and
has knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive that advice.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(2).)  Petitioner has submitted the “Statement of
Independent Professional Representation,” which (1) was signed by Lucier on
October 22, 2024, and (2) states that Lucier (i) was advised by Petitioner that
she should obtain or consult with independent professional representation
concerning the implications of the transaction, and (ii) knowingly and
voluntarily waived that right.  (Pet.,
Ex. 7, p. 1.) 
Third, the court finds that Petitioner has complied with the
notification requirements pursuant to section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2),
Petitioner has provided Lucier with a disclosure form that complies with
section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with sections 10136 and
10138.
Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2) requires Petitioner
to file and serve, not less than 20 days before the hearing on a petition for
approval of a transfer of payment rights, a notice of the proposed transfer and
the petition for its authorization, a copy of the proposed transfer agreement,
a listing of each of the payee’s dependents, disclosures as required by section
10136, and, if available, copies of the annuity contract, any qualified
assignment agreement, and the underlying structured settlement
agreement.¿¿ 
Petitioner served Lucier, the payment obligor, and the payment issuer with
the First Amended Petition on November 19, 2024, i.e., 20 days before the
December 9, 2024 hearing on the petition. 
(Pet., p. 57 [Proof of Service].) 
The First Amended Petition includes a copy of the proposed transfer
agreement (Pet., Ex. 2), a verified chart showing that Lucier has no dependents
(Pet., Ex. 6), the disclosure statements for both California and Illinois
(Pet., Ex. 3), and the underlying qualified assignment agreement and annuity
contract (Pet., Ex. A to Ex. 1).  The
court therefore finds that Petitioner has complied with the notice
requirements.  
Section 10136 requires that the transfer agreement include certain
information and meet certain requirements, including that it be written in
12-point type, state it will not be effective until a court enters a final
order approving it and that payment can be delayed, and set forth certain
information, including the net amount to be paid to the payee.¿ (Ins. Code, §
10136, subd. (c).)¿ Section 10138 includes additional requirements, including
that a transfer agreement cannot waive the seller/payee’s right to sue, require
the seller/payee to indemnify the buyer in claims brought by the seller or on
the seller’s behalf contesting the sale, or require the seller/payee to pay the
buyer’s attorneys’ fees and costs.¿¿ (Ins. Code, § 10138, subd. (a).)¿  Petitioner has submitted a copy of the
“California Disclosure Statement,” which was signed by Lucier.  (Pet., Ex. 3.)  The court finds that this disclosure statement
complies with section 10136.  The court
further finds that the proposed transfer agreement (the “California Structured
Settlement Payment Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement”) substantially complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.[1]  (Pet., Ex. 2; Pet., ¶ 10.) 
Fourth, the court finds that the transfer does not contravene any
applicable statute or the order of any court or other government
authority.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(4).)  
Fifth, the court finds that Lucier understands the terms of the
transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement
required by Section 10136.  (Ins. Code, §
10139.5, subd. (a)(5); Lucier Decl., ¶ 15 [“I received and read the separate
Disclosure Statement at least 10 days before I received the Transfer
Agreement.  I understand the terms of the
Disclosure Statement and the terms of the Transfer Agreement”].)
Sixth, the court finds that Lucier understands that she has the right
to cancel the transfer agreement and does not wish to exercise that right.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(6); Lucier
Decl., ¶ 18.) 
Based on the findings set forth above, and after considering the
circumstances set forth in Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision
(b)(1)-(b)(15) and Lucier’s declaration, the court determines that the proposed
transfer of the structured settlement payment rights should be approved and
that the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interest.  The court therefore grants Petitioner’s First
Amended Petition. 
ORDER
            The court grants petitioner Nobility
Settlement Funding, LLC’s First Amended Petition for Approval of Transfer of
Structured Settlement Payment Rights. 
            The court orders that the transfer
of the structured settlement payment rights set forth in the “California
Structured Settlement Payment Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement,” as attached
as Exhibit 2 to petitioner Nobility Settlement Funding, LLC’s First Amended
Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights, is
approved. 
This order shall constitute a final “Qualified Order” pursuant to 26
U.S.C. section 5891. 
            The court orders petitioner Nobility
Settlement Funding, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


