 Case Number:  24STCV15755    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




roberta f. morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust
   dated September 15, 1993

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mortgage assets management,
   llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV15755




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to expunge notice of
  pendency of action
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F.
Morrissey Trust dated September 15, 1993
Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency of
Action
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with this motion. 
The court has exercised its discretion to consider the opposition
papers that were filed one court day late since defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC
has filed substantive reply papers.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Redwood Holdings, LLC’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452 subd. (c); Yvanova v.
New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, n. 1 [trial court
properly took judicial notice of recorded documents].) 
            The court denies plaintiff Roberta F.
Morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15,
1993’s request for judicial notice as to (1) Exhibit A because the matters to
be judicially noticed are not a proper subject for judicial notice, and (2)
Exhibit B because it is not relevant to a material issue presented by this
motion.  (Evid. Code, § 452; LG Chem,
Ltd. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 348, 362,
n. 7 [“We may not take judicial notice of the truth of the contents of a
website”]; Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th
817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material
issue”].)
The court grants plaintiff
Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated
September 15, 1993’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit C.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendant
Redwood Holdings, LLC’s, evidentiary objections, filed on December 2, 2024, as
follows:[1]
            Objections Nos. 1-7 are sustained. 
            The court overrules the objections directed
to the arguments raised in the opposition memorandum of points and authorities
(Objections Nos. 8-12) because the objections are not directed to evidence. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC (“Defendant”) moves the court for an
order expunging the Notice of Pendency of Action filed by plaintiff Roberta F.
Morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15,
1993 (“Plaintiff”) as to the real property that is the subject of this action.  (Crandall Decl., Ex. B, Notice of Lis Pendens
and Pendency of Action.)   Alternatively, Defendant requests that the
court require Plaintiff to provide Defendant with an undertaking in the amount
of $898,000.  
“‘A lis pendens is a recorded document giving constructive notice that
an action has been filed affecting title or right to possession of the real
property described in the notice.’”  (Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004)
33 Cal.4th 642, 647.)  Any time after a notice of pendency of action has
been recorded, any party or nonparty with an interest in the real property
affected thereby may move the court in which the action is pending to expunge
the notice.  (Code Civ. Pro., § 405.30.) The court must order the notice
expunged if the court finds any of the following: the pleading on which the
notice is based does not contain a real property claim; the claimant has not
established by preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real
property claim; or the real property claim has probable validity, but adequate
relief can be secured by the giving of an undertaking.  (Code Civ. Pro.,
§§ 405.31-405.33.) 
First, the court finds that the Complaint contains a real property
claim because it states facts sufficient to constitute causes of action for
quiet title and for declaratory relief (which seeks a declaration that the sale
of the subject property was void).[2]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.31 [“the court shall
order the notice expunged if the court finds that the pleading on which the
notice is based does not contain a real property claim”]; De Martini v.
Superior Court (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 1269, 1278 [“A real property claim is
one that affects title or possession of the subject property[,]” and the court
shall expunge the notice if the court finds that the pleading does not contain
a real property claim.  “In making this
determination, the court must engage in a demurrer-like analysis, asking
whether the claimants have pled facts entitling them to the remedy they seek”]
[internal quotation marks omitted].) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden
to establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of her
real property claims against Defendant. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.32, 405.3 [“‘Probable validity,’ with respect
to a real property claim, means that it is more likely than not that the
claimant will obtain a judgment against the defendant on the claim”]; De
Martini, supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at p. 1279 [“Unlike other motions,
nonmoving parties must demonstrate the existence or probable validity of their
real property claims”].) 
Defendant has submitted evidence showing, and Plaintiff does not
dispute, that Defendant purchased the subject property for the total amount of
$898,000 pursuant to the Trustee’s Sale on May 14, 2024.  (Def. RJN Ex. G, Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale.)  However, Plaintiff contends that her quiet
title and declaratory relief claims have merit because her previous lenders
acted wrongfully and because Defendant is not a bona fide purchaser.  The court finds that Plaintiff has not
submitted evidence sufficient to meet her burden to establish, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that she will prevail against Defendant on her
real property claims because Plaintiff has not submitted evidence showing that
she has the right to title to the subject property or that the underlying sale
was void.  (Thompson v. Ioane (2017)
11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1195 [“To prevail on a quiet title claim, a plaintiff must
establish title to the property in dispute”].) 
Although Plaintiff has argued that her previous lenders unlawfully
foreclosed on her property and engaged in other wrongful actions, Plaintiff did
not cite (1) competent, admissible evidence in support of that assertion, or
(2) argument and authority establishing that Plaintiff has superior title to
the property over Defendant.  Plaintiff
also has not presented adequate argument, analysis, and evidence to show that
the underlying sale was void, citing only to unsupported allegations in her
verified Complaint.
Further, Plaintiff has not presented adequate argument and evidence to
support her claim that Defendant was not a bona fide purchaser, such that
Plaintiff has not shown that her claims have merit on the ground that Defendant
did not take its interest in the subject property free of Plaintiff’s asserted
rights in the property.  (Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.5th 513, 521 [“‘[A] bona fide
purchaser for value who acquires his interest in real property without notice
of another’s asserted rights in the property takes the property free of such
unknown rights’”].)  Specifically,
Plaintiff did not present evidence showing that Defendant     (1) did
not take title to the property by payment of value, (2) did not take title to
the property in good faith, or (3) had actual or constructive notice of
Plaintiff’s rights before it purchased the subject property.  (Ibid. [setting forth elements of a
bona fide purchaser].) 
The court acknowledges that, on November 22, 2024, the court issued an
order on Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint and concluded that
“Plaintiff’s allegation that the property was sold to ‘inside’ entities that
were the agents, co-conspirators, or aiders and abettors of the defendants,
such that Defendant was ‘not [a] good faith purchaser[] for value[,]’ liberally
construed, is sufficient to allege Defendant’s actual or constructive knowledge
of Plaintiff’s rights before its purchase of the subject property.”  (Nov. 22, 2024 Order, p. 3:17-23.)  The court’s finding, however, was made only on
the issue of whether Plaintiff stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action under the liberal pleading standards on demurrer, which is different
than the standard on a motion to expunge a notice of pendency of action
challenging the probable validity of a claimant’s real property claims.  Specifically, to show that an action is
probably valid in opposition to a motion to expunge a notice of pendency of
action, the statute “requires a minitrial on the merits for making a probable
validity finding, not a ‘quasi demurrer-like analysis . . . .’”  (De Martini, supra, 98
Cal.App.5th at p. 1280.)  Thus, the
court’s ruling on Defendant’s demurrer does not, alone, establish probable
validity of Plaintiff’s real property claims.
The court notes that the Complaint, including the allegation set forth
above, is verified.  (Compl., p. 35
[Verification by Plaintiff].)  However, Plaintiff
did not allege facts establishing that she has personal knowledge of the allegations
implying that Defendant had notice of her claims, such that those allegations
have no evidentiary value (and to which the court has sustained Defendants’
evidentiary objections).  Similarly,
while Plaintiff has alleged that the subject property “sold for substantially less
at auction than its reasonable market value had it been placed for sale on the
open market” (Compl., ¶ 36), Plaintiff (1) did not allege facts laying the
foundation for such an assertion, including the alleged fair market value for
the subject property, and (2) did not submit evidence in support of her
opposition to this motion showing that the subject property sold for
substantially less than its value at the auction.[3]  (Opp., p. 9:9-10 [arguing that Defendant
purchased the property for a lesser value].) 
Thus, the court finds that this statement does not show that Defendant
did not make a “payment of value,” such that Plaintiff has not shown that
Defendant is not a bona fide purchaser. 
(Deutsche Bank National Trust Co., supra, 13 Cal.App.5th
at p. 521.) 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that she is entitled to quiet
title of the subject property in her favor and against Defendant, a bona fide
purchaser of the property, or that the underlying sale was void, such that
Plaintiff has not met her burden to establish by a preponderance of the
evidence the probable validity of her real property claims against Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.)  The court therefore grants Defendant’s
motion.  (Ibid.) 
            Third, the court grants Defendant’s
request for an award of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.)  The court finds that $2,610 is a reasonable
amount of attorney’s fees and costs to award in connection with this motion.  (Turner Decl., ¶¶ 8-11.) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC’s motion to
expunge notice of pendency of action.
            The
court orders that the “Notice of Lis Pendens and Pendency of Action” recorded
in the Recorder’s Office of Los Angeles County, California, by plaintiff
Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated
September 15, 1993, on June 28, 2024,
as to the real property at 818 W. Dryden Street, Glendale, California, 91202,
is expunged. 
            The court orders plaintiff Roberta
F. Morrissey, as trustee of the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15,
1993 to pay attorney’s fees and costs in the total amount of $2,610 to defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC within 30
days of the date of service of this order. 
            The court orders defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


