 Case Number:  21STCV07940    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




alejandra garcia

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
city of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV07940




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff lacramioara claudia muntean
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff katherine kate gray
(3)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff diana salazar
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              John C. Carpenter and Asa O. Eaten  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Lacramioara Claudia Muntean
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Katherine Kate Gray
(3)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Diana Salazar
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
John C. Carpenter and Asa O. Eaton (“Plaintiffs’ Counsel”) move to be
relieved as counsel for (1) plaintiff Lacramioara Claudia Muntean (“Muntean”),
(2) plaintiff Katherine Kate Gray (“Gray”), and (3) plaintiff Diana Salazar
(“Salazar”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).  In the interest of efficiency, the court
discusses Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s three motions together. 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿¿ 
            The court finds that Plaintiffs’
Counsel has not shown that they served (1) Plaintiffs with the moving papers
filed in connection with each motion, and (2) all other parties who have
appeared in this action with the moving papers filed in connection with each
motion.
            First, although Plaintiffs’ Counsel
state that they personally served plaintiffs Muntean and Gray with copies of
the motion papers and that a proof of service would be filed at least five days
before the hearing, Plaintiffs’ Counsel has not filed proofs of service with
the court showing that those plaintiffs were personally served with the
respective motions to be relieved as their counsel.  (MC-052 as to plaintiff Muntean, ¶ 3, subd.
(a)(1); MC-052 as to plaintiff Gray, ¶ 3, subd. (a)(1).) 
            Second, Plaintiffs’ Counsel did not
file proofs of service of the moving papers by mail on plaintiffs Gray and Salazar,
such that the court cannot determine that the motions to be relieved as their
counsel were served on them with sufficient notice.  (MC-052 as to plaintiff Gray, ¶ 3, subd.
(a)(2); MC-052 as to plaintiff Salazar, ¶ 3, subd. (a)(2).)  Moreover, assuming that Plaintiffs’ Counsel
served plaintiffs Gray and Salazar with the moving papers on November 14, 2024
(i.e., the date on which Plaintiffs’ Counsel filed the pending motions), that
would not have provided them with sufficient notice.[1]

            Third, Plaintiffs’ Counsel did not
file a proof of service showing that each of the three motions were served on
all other parties who have appeared in this action.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)  Although Plaintiffs’ Counsel filed a proof of
service on November 14, 2024, Plaintiffs’ Counsel did not sufficiently identify
the motions that were served on the other parties.  Specifically, that proof of service (1) states
only that one motion to be relieved as counsel was served, and (2) does not
specify which of the three motions were served, such that the court cannot
determine that all of the pending motions to be relieved as Plaintiffs’ counsel
were served on all other parties. 
            The court therefore denies John C.
Carpenter and Asa O. Eaton’s (1) motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff
Lacramioara Claudia Muntean, (2) motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff
Katherine Kate Gray, and (3) motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff
Diana Salazar, without prejudice to John C. Carpenter and Asa O. Eaton’s filing
new motions that are accompanied by proofs of service that establish that all
of the parties have been served with the moving papers as required. 
            The court orders John C. Carpenter
and Asa O. Eaton to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


