 Case Number:  23SMCV04868    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04868




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration and Stay




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Stephen R. Hofer, Stephen R. Hofer Law Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group,
  Aerlex Tax Services, LLC, and Aerlex Tax Servies, LLP




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants
  Vicky Boladian and Boladian Aviation Law Group, APC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute between former business partners.  On October 15, 2023, Plaintiffs Stephen R.
Hofer (“Hofer”); Stephen R. Hofer Law Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group
(“ALG”); Aerlex Tax Services, LLC (“ATS LLC”); and Aerlex Tax Services, LLP (“ATS
LLP”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) brought suit against Defendants Vicky Boladian
(“Boladian”) and Boladian Aviation Law Group, APC (“BALG”) (together, “Defendants”)
alleging thirteen causes of action: (1) breach of contract – settlement
agreement; (2) breach of contract – operating agreement and buy-sell agreement;
(3) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4) breach of
fiduciary duty; (5) intentional misrepresentation; (6) fraud in the inducement;
(7) wrongful dissociation; (8) conversion; (9) intentional interference with
contractual relations; (10) computer data access and fraud act; (11) receiving
stolen property; (12) unlawful business practices; and (13) declaratory relief.
 
The Complaint alleges Hofer founded ALG in 2005 and hired Boladian in
2008.  (Compl. ¶ 8.)  Subsequently, Hofer formed ATS LLC, in which
Hofer owned 55% and Boladian owned 45%. 
(Id. at ¶ 9.)  Around
2017-2018, a dispute arose between Hofer and Boladian, resulting in a lawsuit
and arbitration proceedings.  (Id.
at ¶ 11.)  In September 2020, Hofer and
Boladian settled their dispute and entered into three separate agreements.  (Id. at ¶ 12.)
 
In March 2023, concerned about California law prohibiting LLCs from
rendering “professional services,” Boladian allegedly approached Hofer about
converting ATS LLC into an LLP, which Hofer did, with the understanding that
the change in corporate form would not impact the parties’ ownership interests
or the terms of the ATS LLC Operating Agreement or Buy-Sell Agreement.  (Compl. ¶ 17.)  In August 2023, Boladian quietly formed her
own law firm, BALG, and “surreptitiously” transferred information, property, and
staff from ATS (LLP) to her new firm.  (Id.
at ¶ 18.)  In September 2023, Boladian
told Hofer she was withdrawing from LLP, dissolving the partnership by
operation of law.  (Id. at ¶ 20.)
 
Shortly after filing suit, on November 1, 2023, Plaintiffs moved ex
parte for a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause why a
preliminary injunction should not issue essentially enjoining Boladian from
continuing to provide tax and legal services to clients of the  now-defunct entity in which Boladian and Hofer
were both partners.  On November 2, the
Court denied the ex parte application, finding that Plaintiffs had not
demonstrated an inadequate remedy at law. 
(Minute Order, Nov. 2, 2023.)
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs moved for a preliminary injunction,
seeking essentially the same relief.  On
December 12, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary
injunction finding, among other things, that the record did not establish the
cited non-compete clause was applicable or enforceable or that either the
entities in question would suffer irreparable harm and that the status quo
would be to allow Boladian to continue to service the clients as she had
previously done.  (Minute Order, Dec.12,
2023.)
 
On April 23, 2024, Defendant and Cross-Complainant Vicky Boladian
brought a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs for (1) express contractual
indemnity; (2) implied contractual indemnity; (3) equitable indemnity; (4)
breach of contract; and (5) breach of fiduciary duty.
 
            Plaintiffs now move to compel
Defendants to arbitration and to stay the action, pending the outcome of those
proceedings, pursuant to the arbitration provisions in the September 2020
agreements.  Defendants oppose the motion
and Plaintiffs reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            In connection with the Reply,
Plaintiffs have requested judicial notice of the following documents filed in
connection with the parties’ prior lawsuit:
 
Exhibit A: Motion to Compel Arbitration filed by
Hofer and ALG 
 
Exhibit B: Opposition to Motion to Compel
Arbitration filed by Boladian and ATS 
 
Exhibit C: Reply in Support of Motion to Compel
Arbitration filed by Hofer and ALG 
 
Exhibit D: Order Granting Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
 
The Court does not generally consider reply evidence, as such deprives
the opposing party of a fair opportunity to respond.  (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316 [“due process requires a
party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate
notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall
Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is denied.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.    
ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS
 
Plaintiffs move to compel Defendants to arbitration on the basis of
three separate but interrelated agreements reached in September 2020 in
connection with a settlement of legal disputes Boladian asserted against Hofer
in 2017: (1) a Settlement Agreement; (2) the ATS LLC Amended and Restated
Operating Agreement (“Operating Agreement”); and (3) the ATS LLC Amended and
Restated Buy-Sell Agreement (“Buy-Sell.”) 

 
The parties to the Settlement Agreement are Boladian on the one hand
and Hofer and ALG on the other, and the Settlement Agreement concerns the
parties’ conduct with respect to ATS LLC. 
(Ex. C.)  Paragraph 28 of the
Settlement Agreement provides:
 
28. In the event of a dispute among the Parties
regarding the enforcement or interpretation of this Agreement or any right of
any Party hereto, the parties shall first discuss their respective positions
and attempt to resolve their disputes at an in-person meeting. Either Party
may, but is not required to, be accompanied at such meeting by counsel of their
choosing. In the event an in-person meeting does not result in a resolution of
the dispute, the Parties shall promptly seek resolution of their dispute through
mediation by a mutually acceptable mediator who shall be a retired Los Angeles
Superior Court Judge. In the event that mediation is unsuccessful, the Parties
shall refer their dispute to arbitration with ADR Services in Los Angeles
County, California. Such dispute shall be heard by a mutually acceptable
arbitrator, or in the event the Parties are unable to agree, by an arbitrator
randomly assigned by ADR Services. The prevailing party, as determined by the
arbitrator, shall be entitled to recover his/her reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs. In no event shall litigation be commenced by either Party without first
proceeding through each step of the dispute resolution process outlined herein,
which shall be considered conditions precedent to the ability to file suit in
any court of this State.
 
(Ex.
C at ¶ 28.)
 
            The ATS LLC Operating Agreement is
signed by both Hofer and Boladian, both individually and on behalf of ATS LLC.  Section 5.1 of the Operating Agreement
provides:
 
In the event of a dispute among the
Members/Managers regarding the interpretation of this Agreement or any right of
any Party hereto, or if the Members/Managers are unable to reach an agreement
regarding a proposed action, the Members shall first discuss their respective
positions and attempt to resolve their disputes at an in-person meeting of the
Members/Managers. Any Member/Manager may, but is not required to, be
accompanied at such meeting by counsel of his or her choosing. In the event an
in-person meeting does not result in a resolution of the dispute, the
Members/Managers shall promptly seek resolution of their dispute through
mediation by a mutually acceptable mediator who shall be a retired Los Angeles
Superior Court Judge. In the event that mediation is unsuccessful, the
Members/Managers shall refer their dispute to arbitration with ADR Services in
Los Angeles County, California. Such dispute shall be heard by a mutually
acceptable arbitrator, or in the event the Members/Managers are unable to agree,
by an arbitrator randomly assigned by ADR Services. The prevailing party, as
determined by the arbitrator, shall be entitled to recover his/her reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs in addition to any damages assessed by the
arbitrator. In no event shall litigation be commenced by either Member/Manager
without first proceeding through each step of the dispute resolution process
outlined herein, which shall be considered conditions precedent to the ability
to file suit in any court of this State. In the event that legal proceedings
are initiated, this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and be
governed by the substantive laws of the State of California without regard to
the application of conflicts of laws principles, and the dispute shall be determined
in Los Angeles County, California in an arbitrational forum or civil court of
competent jurisdiction therein.
 
(Ex.
D at p. 15.)
 
            The ATS LLC Buy-Sell Agreement is
between Hofer and Boladian “as the sole members of ATS [LLC]” and restricts
Hofer and Boladian’s ability to transfer their membership interests in ATS LLC
and contains a covenant not to compete. 
(Ex. E at pp. 1, 17-19.)  
 
            Thus, both parties agree that the
2020 agreements between Hofer and Boladian exist and contain arbitration
provisions.  However, Boladian contends
(1) neither BALG nor ATS LLP are parties to the 2020 Agreements, as such the
arbitration provisions do not bind those parties; (2) the arbitration
provisions are narrow and do not cover the disputes at issue; (3) Plaintiffs
waived the right to arbitration by bringing an untimely demand after litigating
in court for several months; and (4) Plaintiffs’ breaches of the arbitration
agreements estops them from enforcing the arbitration provisions.
 
3.    
WAIVER
 
            “Waiver of the right to arbitrate
does not require a voluntary relinquishment of a known right.  For example, a party may waive the right by
an untimely demand even without any intent to forgo the procedure.  In this circumstance, waiver is similar to a
forfeiture arising from the nonperformance of a required act.”  (Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co.
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1203 (hereafter Hoover) [cleaned up].)  “Although participation in litigation of an
arbitrable claim does not itself waive a party's right later to seek
arbitration, at some point, litigation of the issues in dispute justifies a
finding of waiver.”  (Id. at p.
1204.)  On the issue of what constitutes
a “reasonable time” to demand arbitration, the Hoover court noted:
 
There is no fixed stage in a lawsuit beyond which
further litigation waives the right to arbitrate. Rather, the court views the
litigation as a whole in determining whether the parties' conduct is
inconsistent with a desire to arbitrate. 
A defendant's removal of a case filed in state court to federal court
does not by itself constitute an implicit waiver of the right to compel
arbitration.  But, a
defendant's removal of a case to federal court, coupled with participation in
several months of litigation, waives the right to arbitrate because electing to
proceed in federal court on an arbitrable dispute is presumptive waiver of the
right to arbitrate.
 
(Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  On the issue of
prejudice, the Hoover court stated:
 
The presence or absence of prejudice from the
litigation is a determinative issue.  Because
of the strong policy favoring arbitration, prejudice typically is found only
where the petitioning party has unreasonably delayed seeking arbitration or
substantially impaired an opponent's ability to use the benefits and
efficiencies of arbitration.  Prejudice
sufficient for waiver will be found where instead of seeking to compel
arbitration, a party proceeds with extensive discovery that is unavailable in
arbitration proceedings.
 
(Id.
at p. 1205 [cleaned up].)  Similarly, in
finding there was no waiver to arbitrate, the California Supreme Court noted,
in part:
 
Although we have found no California or United
States Supreme Court decisions on point, other courts that have addressed this
issue hold that a petitioning party does not waive its arbitration rights
merely by seeking to change judicial venue of an action prior to requesting
arbitration. In so holding, those courts reason that a party is not required to
litigate the issue of arbitration in an improper or inconvenient venue, and
that a party's position on venue does not necessarily reflect a position on arbitrability.
We agree with that reasoning, and find it consistent with California and
federal case law holding that a waiver determination requires the consideration
of all circumstances, including the absence or presence of prejudice.
 
(St.
Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1205
(hereafter St. Agnes) [cleaned up].) 

 
            In Hoover, the appellate
court held that the defendant waived its right to arbitration by “actively
litigating this action for more than a year and causing prejudice to
Hoover.”  (Hoover, supra, 206
Cal.App.4th at p. 1203.)  In particular,
the Hoover court determined that the defendant waived its right because
it “[d]id not introduce the question of arbitration for almost a full year and
[the defendant] conducted litigation in a style inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate.  The two failed efforts to
remove the case to federal court and [the defendant’s] recalcitrant responses
to discovery suggest its policy has been one of delay rather than seeking a
more prompt and expeditious resolution through arbitration.  During that time, [the defendant] availed
itself of discovery mechanisms like depositions not available in
arbitration.  [The defendant] also
solicited putative class members, in an effort to reduce the size of the class.
Hoover was certainly strongly affected and prejudiced by [the defendant’s]
delay, causing significant legal expenses.”
(Id.
at p. 1205 [cleaned up]; but see St. Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1201
[“a waiver generally does not occur where the arbitrable issues have not been
litigated to judgment].)  
 
            Moreover, more leeway is generally
afforded to a defendant who takes certain preliminary defensive actions against
a lawsuit before moving to compel arbitration, than a plaintiff, whose filing
of the suit is, in itself, inconsistent with asserting the right to compel
arbitration.  (Christensen v. Dewor
Developments (1983) 33 Cal.3d 778, 782.) 
However, the mere filing of action does not result in waiver by the
plaintiff.  (Id. at p. 783.)
 
Courts consider the following factors in determining whether a party
has waived the right to arbitration: 
“(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked
and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the party
notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party
either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for
a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking
arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings;
(5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial
discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place; and (6)
whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.”  (St. Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1196
[cleaned up].)     
 
Here, Defendants claims that Plaintiffs waived the right to compel
arbitration by filing suit in this court, and litigating for over five months,
including but not limited to the following:
 


ex parte application for a temporary restraining
      order
motion for preliminary injunction
opposing Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint
propounding written discovery requests and
      refusing to extend the deadline for Defendants to respond to such
      discovery requests
opposing Defendants’ ex parte application to
      extend the deadline to respond to such discovery requests
attending an Informal Discovery Conference
      related to such discovery requests
setting various depositions for Boladian and
      BALG employees.


 
(Sohal
Decl. ¶¶ 7, 11-18; see also Court’s Docket.) 
Further, Defendants claim that they have expended approximately 210
hours from November 1, 2023 to March 30, 2024 on this action.  (Id. at ¶ 19.)  Based upon the matters that have transpired
to date, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have engaged in tactics that are fundamentally
incompatible with the expediency, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness associated
with utilizing arbitration.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Hofer waived the right to arbitrate by
filing suit in this court and substantially and vigorously litigating it for
over seven months as set forth above.  As
such, Defendants would be prejudiced if Hofer were able to compel arbitration
at this juncture.[1]
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Therefore, having found Plaintiffs,
in particular Hofer, have waived the right to compel arbitration by filing suit
in this court and actively litigating, including multiple motions and engaging
in substantial discovery for over seven months, the Court denies Plaintiffs’
motion to compel arbitration.
 
            Plaintiffs shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED: 
June 10, 2024                                  ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 


