  Case Number:  21SMCV00498    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00498




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Myriad Pictures, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of a dispute over
the production and distribution rights to the film franchise Jeepers
Creepers. Plaintiff Myriad Pictures, Inc. alleges it holds the rights of
first negotiation and last refusal to the franchise. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the defendants
produced and released a fourth installment of the film franchise without their
knowledge or involvement. Plaintiff also alleges the defendants are currently
producing a fifth installment of the film franchise without their knowledge or
involvement. 
 
On March 16, 2021, Plaintiff filed its
original Complaint, which included defendant Screen Media. Plaintiff filed its
First Amended Complaint (FAC) on July 7, 2021. 
 
On July 25, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File its Second Amended Complaint (SAC). Plaintiff
filed its SAC on July 26, 2023. 
 
MOTION
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
present Motion for Leave to Amend SAC.   Plaintiff
moves for leave to amend the complaint to name three additional defendants: Seth
Needle (Needle), David Fannon (Fannon), and the Estate of Mark Damon (Damon). 
 
Plaintiff alleges Fannon serves as
Executive Vice President for defendant Chicken Soup for the Soul Entertainment,
Inc. (CSSE) and as President for defendant Screen Media Ventures LLC (Screen
Media). 
 
Plaintiff alleges Needle served as
Executive Vice President of Global Acquisitions and Co-productions for
defendant Screen Media. Plaintiff also alleges Needle was an Executive Producer
on the production of the fourth Jeepers Creepers film. 
 
Plaintiff alleges Damon served as a
Producer and Chief Executive Officer for Foresight Unlimited, which Plaintiff
alleges was acquired by defendant CSSE. 
 
            Plaintiff’s motion is
unopposed.    
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Amendments to Pleadings: General
Provisions
 
            Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
 
            To
wit, without notice to the other party the Court has wide discretion to allow
either party (i) to add or strike the name of a party or (ii) to correct a
mistake in the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect “in
furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as may be proper.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage of Liss (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to the other party, the
Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any
terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).
Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge, at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or
pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg
(1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an established policy in California
since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter (1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas
v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150, 155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan
v. Superior Court held “If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)
Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend
where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The
court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil
& Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend
is rarely justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will
not prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)
However, if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay
has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to
amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed
delay alone is not grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment
has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing
amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such
a case even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653
(citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).)
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along
with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of
discovery, etc. . . . But the fact that the amendment involves a change in
legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing
party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even
if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the amendment but impose
conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be
proper.’” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation
omitted.) For example, the court may cause the party seeking the amendment to
pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664
(citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading
before trial must:
 
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.
 
            In
addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must
be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the following:
 
(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.

 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to amend the SAC to add three additional defendants. The proposed
defendants are individuals who purportedly serve (or served) as executives for
named defendants – CSSE and Screen Media (See Motion, pp. 3-4.).  In support of the motion, Plaintiff filed two declarations.

 
First, the Declaration of Kirk D’Amico,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Plaintiff, addresses the production
and distribution of the Jeepers Creepers motion picture franchise, but the
declaration does not provide information related to the proposed
defendants:  Needle, Fannon and
Damon.  Thus, the Court finds that the
D’Amico declaration is not compliant with Rule 3.1324(b). 
 
Second, the Declaration of Robert
Paredes, counsel for Plaintiff, states all parties attended the March 16, 2024
mediation except for Screen Media and CSSE (Paredes Decl. ¶ 2). It also
describes “online articles” regarding CSSE’s “volatile financial condition and
penny stock status” (Paredes Decl. ¶ 3). Parades attaches as Exhibit 1 an article
titled “5 Investors Betting Big on Chicken Soup for the Soul (CSSE) Stock.”  The  article
notes the penny stock recently spiked more than 100% in one day without
explanation, and opined it could be part of a “pump-and-dump scheme” or due to
retail “meme stock” investors. Yet the declaration does not provide information
related to the proposed defendants: 
Needle, Fannon and Damon.  Thus,
the Court finds that the Paredes’ declaration is not compliant with Rule
3.1324(b). 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For
the reasons stated, the Court denies without prejudice Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to amend the Second Amended Complaint as procedurally defective under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b). 
In particular, Plaintiff has not advanced a declaration in support of
the motion that specifies the following: 
(1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. 
 
            The
Court orders Plaintiff to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  June 10,
2024                                 ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 