 Case Number:  23SMCV01044    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01044




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Jennifer Flynn Adams and
  Christopher Adams




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant E&TB Investments LLC



 
MOTIONS
 
This case is a landlord/tenant dispute regarding the conditions of
real property Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Jennifer Flynn Adams and
Christoper Adams (together, “Plaintiffs”) leased, with the intent to
purchase.  
 
Plaintiffs demur to the Cross-Complaint filed by Defendant and
Cross-Complainant E&TB Investments LLC (“Defendant”) on the grounds that it
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, is uncertain,
and lacks an attorney signature, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivisions (b), (e), (f), and (g). 
Plaintiffs also move to strike various portions of the Cross-Complaint
on the same grounds.  Defendant opposes
both motions and Plaintiffs reply.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
1. The Second Amended Complaint of Cross
Defendants filed in the instant action as Plaintiffs in their case in-chief on
or about March 8, 2024, attached hereto as Exhibit “1”; 
 
2. A Certified Copy from the Delaware Secretary
of State of Cross Complainant E&TB Investments LLC’s Certificate of
Formation, attached hereto as Exhibit “2”; 
 
3. Application to Register a Foreign Limited
Liability Company filed by Cross Complainant E&TB Investments LLC with the
California Secretary of State on May 7, 2019, attached hereto as Exhibit “3”; 
 
4. Statement of Information filed by Cross
Complainant E&TB Investments LLC with the California Secretary of State on
August 24, 2023, attached hereto as Exhibit “4”; 
 
5. Search Results for all entities having the
name “Bessemer” conducted on the California Secretary of State’s website on May
28, 2024, attached hereto as Exhibit “5”; and 
 
6. Verified Cross Complaint of E&TB
Investments LLC filed in the instant action on April 8, 2024, attached hereto
as Exhibit “6”.
 
With respect to Exhibits 1 and
6, judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because these documents are part of the
Court’s record for this case, the Court may take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the Second Amended Complaint
and Verified Cross-Complaint filed in this matter as court records, but not the
truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
With respect to Exhibits 2-4, in
general, official notices, statements, and certificates made by state entities
such as the Secretary of State or the Franchise Tax Board are properly the
subject of judicial notice as documents reflecting official acts of the state’s
executive department, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(c).  (See e.g., Friends of Shingle
Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
1470, 1483–1484.)  Therefore, the Court
takes judicial notice of Exhibit 2.
 
However, “materials prepared by private parties and merely on file
with the state agencies” may not be properly judicially noticed as an official
act of a legislative, executive, or judicial department of the United States or
any state of the United States.  (People
v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.) 
Moreover, as discussed above, courts may not take judicial notice of
hearsay statements contained in official records.  Therefore, while the Court could take
judicial notice of the fact that Exhibits 3 and 4 are on file with the relevant
state agencies, and any legal implications thereof, the Court cannot take
judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted therein.  Because Defendant offers these exhibits to
prove its standing in this case, the Court declines to take judicial notice of
Exhibits 3-4.
 
Regarding Exhibit 5, Defendant has provided no legal basis for the
Court to take judicial notice of the results of a private search conducted on
the California Secretary of State’s website on May 28, 2024.  Therefore, the Court declines to take
judicial notice of Exhibit 5.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows on Plaintiffs’
evidentiary objections:
 
1.    
Sustained – relevance
2.    
Sustained – relevance
3.    
Sustained – relevance
4.    
Sustained – relevance
5.    
Sustained – relevance
6.    
Sustained – relevance
7.    
Sustained – relevance
8.    
Overruled
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must specify exactly how or why the
pleading is uncertain.  (See, e.g., Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Plaintiffs contend the Cross-Complaint is uncertain because it is not
properly verified or signed by an attorney. 

 
First, the Court notes the Cross-Complaint is electronically signed by
Derrick F. Coleman, Esq.
 
Second, attached to the Cross-Complaint is the following electronically-signed
verification:
 
I, Steven Dwyer, state: 
I am an authorized representative of Bessemer
Trust of California, N.A., in its capacity as co-trustee of the Madison Trust,
in its capacity as co-manager of E&TB Investments LLC and in said capacity
am authorized to make this verification on behalf of E&TB Investments LLC.
I have read the foregoing Verified Cross-Complaint of E&TB Investments LLC
and know its contents. I am informed and believe and on that ground state that
the matters are true and accurate to the best of my own knowledge except as to
those matters which are stated on information and belief, and as to those
matters I believe them to be true. 
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct. 
Executed on April 8, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs contend that Steven Dwyer must either prove that he
is an officer of E&TB or else explain in the affidavit why he is signing
instead of an officer.  The Court
disagrees. On its face, the verification provides the requisite foundation for
Dwyer’s verification.  Moreover, as
Defendant points out, a verification is not required.  Should discovery reveal that the
Cross-Complaint is not properly verified, Plaintiffs may move to strike the Cross-Complaint.
 
In any event, Plaintiffs do not demonstrate that any portions of the Cross-Complaint
are so bad that Plaintiffs cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against them.  The Court thus declines to sustain Plaintiffs’
demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
STANDING
 
With respect to standing, the Cross-Complaint
provides as follows:
 
7. Cross-Complainant is the owner of certain real
property located in Topanga Canyon, including a single-family home and detached
garage (“Property”).
 
8. In June 2018, Cross-Defendants executed a
written lease with Cross-Complainant’s predecessor-in-interest pursuant to
which Cross-Defendants leased the Property for a one-year term commencing on
June 24, 2018, and ending on June 24, 2019 (“Lease”). A true and correct copy
of the Lease, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference, is
attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
 
(Cross-Complaint
at ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
            Plaintiffs contend this allegation
provides insufficient detail to determine whether Defendant actually has
standing to sue.  According to
Plaintiffs, “Questions abound. Who is the “predecessor-in-interest” that signed
the lease, or who is claimed to have had a legitimate right to collect rent?
Was it a valid lease? When did Cross-Defendants take possession? Why does the
Cross-Complainant now have the right to sue under a lease entered into by
another party?”
 
            Plaintiffs seek to impose a
heightened pleading requirement that the law does not require. To the contrary,
the Cross-Complaint adequately alleges that Defendant has standing to sue on
the written lease agreement because Defendant is allegedly the
successor-in-interest to that agreement. 
Moreover, in response to Plaintiffs’ questions about the lease, a copy
of the alleged lease at issue is attached to the Cross-Complaint, signed by
“Tara Broida of the Madison family Trust,” which is arguably Defendant’s
predecessor-in-interest, with a lease term to commence on June 24, 2018.  Plaintiffs’ remaining questions are factual
issues to be determined at later stages of the litigation.  For pleading purposes, Defendant has
adequately alleged standing, and Plaintiffs have not established otherwise.
 
C.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges:
 
7. Cross-Complainant is the owner of certain real
property located in Topanga Canyon, including a single-family home and detached
garage (“Property”). 
 
8. In June 2018, Cross-Defendants executed a
written lease with Cross-Complainant’s predecessor-in-interest pursuant to
which Cross-Defendants leased the Property for a one-year term commencing on
June 24, 2018, and ending on June 24, 2019 (“Lease”). A true and correct copy
of the Lease, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference, is
attached hereto as Exhibit 1. 
 
9. Upon the expiration of the one-year term of
the Lease on June 24, 2019, Cross-Defendants continued to occupy the Property,
and by its terms, the Lease converted to a month-to-month lease. 
 
10. In consideration for the use of the Property,
Cross-Defendants agreed, among other things, to pay rent on the first calendar
day of each month in the amount of $5,500 per month. 
 
11. After the commencement of the Lease,
Cross-Defendants were habitually late on their rent payments, and paid rent
days, weeks, and even months late. Since August 2022, Cross-Defendants have
failed and refused to pay any rent at all. 
 
12. Tenant and Cross-Defendant Flynn Adams signed
the Lease in June 2018. 
 
13. Flynn Adams and Chris Adams did not pay the
$5,500 in rent for September 2022. 
 
14. Flynn Adams and Chris Adams did not pay the
$5,500 in rent for October 2022. 
 
15. Flynn Adams and Chris Adams did not pay the
$5,500 in rent for November 2022.
 
[…]
 
30. Flynn Adams and Chris Adams did not pay the
$5,500 in rent for February 2024. 
 
31. Flynn Adams and Chris Adams did not pay the
$5,500 in rent for March 2024. 
 
32. Flynn Adams and Chris Adams did not pay the
$5,500 in rent for April 2024.
 
33. The Lease does not contain a purchase option
clause. 
 
34. The Lease does not allow or provide for the
Tenant to have any legal right to purchase the Property. 
 
35. The Tenant never submitted any signed written
offer to purchase the Property. 
 
36. The Lease contains a binding integration
clause. 
 
37. The Lease provides that any modification or
change must be in a writing signed by both landlord and tenant. 
 
38. Despite their failing and refusing to pay any
rent since August 2022, Cross-Defendants have continued to reside at and enjoy
the Subject Property since that time, except for brief periods of time when
Cross-Defendants may have temporarily resided elsewhere. 
 
39. As of the filing of this Cross-Complaint, the
amount of unpaid rent due and owing by Cross-Defendants for the period since
August 2022 alone is no less than $110,000, not including additional rent
amounts that Cross-Defendants failed to pay for prior months.
 
[…]
 
42. As alleged above, Cross-Complainant and
Cross-Defendants are parties to a written Lease pursuant to which
Cross-Defendants agreed to, among other things, pay rent in the amount of
$5,500 per month. 
 
43. As alleged above, Cross-Defendants have
materially breached their obligations under the Lease. 
 
44. Cross-Complainant has substantially performed
its obligations under the Lease. In the alternative, Cross-Complainant’s
performance has been excused, including without limitation, as a result of
Cross-Defendants’ material breaches of the Lease. 
 
45. As a result of Cross-Defendants’ breaches of
the Lease, Cross-Complainant has sustained damages in the amount of at least
$110,000, plus additional damages to be proven at trial, as well as
pre-judgment interest, attorneys’ fees, and other amounts.
 
(Cross-Complaint
¶¶ 7-39; 42-45.)
 
            Thus, the Cross-Complaint adequately
alleges a breach of contract.
 
            Plaintiffs essentially reiterate
their arguments above, that Defendant has not conclusively established that
Plaintiffs owe it rent under the agreement. 
As discussed above, Defendant’s allegations are sufficient at the
pleadings stage.
 
                                                      
ii.         
 Second Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiffs contend the Cross-Complaint’s request for declaratory
relief is unripe because Defendant has failed to demonstrate Plaintiffs are
obligated to pay Defendant rent.  As
discussed above, the Court rejects this argument.  Defendant has adequately alleged that
Plaintiffs owe Defendant rent, as the current owner of the property and the
successor-in-interest to the lease agreement Plaintiffs signed in June 2018.
 
D.   
CAUSE OF ACTION FOUNDED UPON A CONTRACT
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (g) provides a
party may demur on the grounds that “In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, oral,
or is implied by conduct.
 
Here, the Cross-Complaint alleges, “8. In June 2018, Cross-Defendants
executed a written lease with Cross-Complainant’s predecessor-in-interest
[…]”  (Cross-Complaint at ¶ 8.)  Further, a copy of the written lease is
attached to the Cross-Complaint.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s demurrer pursuant to Section 430.10,
subdivision (g) is overruled.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs reiterate their arguments made in support of the
demurrer and move to strike the entire Cross-Complaint, or in the alternative,
various substantive passages therefrom, on the grounds that (1) it was not
signed by an attorney; (2) the verification is defective; and (3) Defendant has
not demonstrated standing.  As discussed
above, the Cross-Complaint was electronically signed by Defendant’s counsel;
the verification is not defective on its face; and (3) Defendant has adequately
alleged standing and Plaintiffs have not demonstrated otherwise.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion to strike is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Plaintiffs’ Demurrer and
denies Plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint in their entirety.
 
Further, the Court orders Plaintiffs to file an Answer to the
Cross-complaint on or before June 28, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 10, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court