  Case Number:  22SMCV00951    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
United Brands
Worldwide, LLC v. D&K Worldwide, LLC, et al., Case No.: 22SMCV00951
Hearing Date: July
31, 2024
United Brands
Worldwide’s Motion for New Trial
 
United
Brands Worldwide (UB) entered into a written agreement in 2013 with defendant
D&K Worldwide, under which UB agreed to upgrade property owned by D&K
in exchange for 20% of the net profit after the property was sold. UB alleges
the written agreement was orally modified in 2015, with UB to receive a monthly
$300 fee. UB alleges 20% of net profits from the property’s rental income would
be calculated at the end of each year, with UB receiving the difference between
that percentage and the $3,600 received in monthly payments. 
 
UB moves for a new
trial on three grounds: 1) newly discovered material evidence, 2)
irregularities by opposing counsel in the proceeding which materially affected
UB’s substantial rights and prevented it from having a fair trial, and 3)
numerous errors of law occurring at the trial, over UB’s objections.
 
“A motion for new trial is appropriate
following an order granting summary judgment.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 858, citations omitted.) “The trial
court has wide discretion in granting a new trial motion that will not be
disturbed unless an abuse of discretion is clearly shown.” Santillan v.
Roman Catholic Bishop of Fresno (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 708, 728. “Every
presumption is indulged in favor of the trial court’s order.” Id.  
 
A verdict or other decision of the court
may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new trial granted on all
or part of the issues, on the application of the aggrieved party, for any of
the following causes: “(1) [i]rregularity in the proceedings of the court . . .
or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was
prevented from having a fair trial . . . (4) [n]ewly discovered evidence,
material for the party making the application, which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced the trial . . . [or] (7)
[an] [e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making
the application.” Code Civ. Proc. §657.
 
Grounds
under Code Civ. Proc. § 657(4)  
UB contends that Suleminian’s deposition presents
new evidence of repudiation, establishing ripe claims for breach of contract,
fraud, breach of fiduciary duty accounting. 
 
“The trial court may grant a new trial based on
newly discovered evidence if the moving party shows the evidence is newly
discovered, reasonable diligence was used to find it, and the new evidence is
material to the moving party’s case.” Santillan v. Roman Catholic Bishop of
Fresno, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th 708, 727-28, citations omitted.)
“Evidence is material when it is likely to produce a different result.” Id.,
citation omitted.
 
UB has not satisfied its burden under Santillan,
supra, 202 Cal.App.4th 708 entitling it to relief under Code Civ. Proc.
§657(4) because it does not assert any facts demonstrating why it was
unable to provide the testimony before the May 22, 2024 hearing.  Per the deposition,
Suleminian denies intending to pay UB 20 percent of the sale proceeds, claiming
the agreement was canceled. Henriks Decl. Exh. 4, RT 243:7-9.
 
Defendants cite Doe
v. United Air Lines, holding that a new trial should not be granted if a
party knew or should have known about pertinent evidence before the trial but
did not produce it with due diligence. Doe v. United Air Lines, Inc.
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1500, 1509. 
 
UB served notice
for its deposition only eight days before the hearing on the summary judgment.
Boniadi Decl., Ex. A. The deposition was taken before the continued hearing
date for the motion on April 8, 2024. Id. Ex. B. Yet the information
obtained was not presented to the court at the hearing, nor did UB request a
continuance to brief the transcript. Similar to Doe, UB failed to
exercise reasonable diligence because it knew about Suleminian’s
testimony at the time of the summary judgment hearing yet did not submit a
supplemental brief or seek a continuance in relation to this “new evidence.”
DENIED. 
 
Grounds
under Code Civ. Proc. §657(1) 
Next, UB asserts that it is entitled to relief
under CCP §657(1) because defense counsel misrepresented and concealed
defendant’s intention not to honor the agreement and the oral modification,
preventing UB from having a fair trial. 
 
This ground fails as defendants have not shown
any conduct indicating willful suppression of material evidence during
discovery or at both summary judgment hearings. At the May 22, 2024 hearing,
defense counsel stated “There's no claim allegation that my client denies the
existence of the original contract, the written contract… He denies the existence of the alleged oral modified
agreement, but there's been no evidence suggesting that my client denies the
existence of the original written agreement.” Henriks Decl; Exh. 5.
 
As mentioned above, UB failed to gather and
present this evidence before the hearing. Defense counsel’s statements are
consistent with Suleminian’s
testimony; they do not dispute the existence of the agreement; they dispute
whether there was an oral modification. Thus, there were no irregularities
concerning the summary judgment proceedings. DENIED  
 
Grounds under Code Civ. Proc. §657(7) 
Finally, UB argues that the court made an error
of law by ignoring the mandate under Civil Code §1698(b) and ignored
established contract law principles, holding that parties’ course of conduct in
relation to an oral agreement can serve to modify a prior written agreement. 
 
UB’s reliance on Code Civ. Proc. §657(7)
is misplaced. Such subsection concerns an error of law occurring at trial.
Here, there was no trial, as judgment was entered in the defendant’s favor
pursuant to a motion for summary judgment. Moreover, UB’s motion for a new
trial does not set forth any reasoned argument in moving for a new trial on
such grounds. “Contentions are waived when a party fails to support them with
reasoned argument and citations to authority.” Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215, citations omitted. 
 
Both parties
were given the opportunity to present evidence for or against the motion for summary judgment, and the Court
found there were no triable issues of material fact. UB has not shown grounds for a new trial
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 657, subd. (7). DENIED.