  Case Number:  22CHCV01269    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-49
Date: 2-15-24
Case # 22CHCV01269,
Melissa Chavez vs. American Honda Motor Co.
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
American Honda Motor Co.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Melissa Chavez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the action
 
RULING: Denied
on two grounds: first, for lack of evidentiary support, and second, because
Defendant is not a third-party beneficiary of the agreement
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
 
On December 1,
2022, Plaintiff Melissa Chavez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant American
Honda Motor Co. (Defendant) for causes of action related to violations of the
Song-Beverly Warranty Act.
 
On November 14,
2023, Defendant filed this petition to compel arbitration and stay the action.
Plaintiff opposes.
 
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objection: Plaintiff has objected to the dealership retail
installment sale contract attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Defendant’s
attorney, Vanessa Dao. Plaintiff objects to the Exhibit on the basis that it is
hearsay, lacks authentication, lacks foundation or personal knowledge, and is
speculative and prejudicial. The Court sustains Plaintiff’s objection.
Defendant’s attorney provides no foundation for the authenticity of this
document. Dao’s declaration states that “I have personal knowledge of the facts
set forth in this declaration” (Dao Decl., ¶ 1), but considering that she is
neither a party to the agreement or otherwise affiliated with the dealership,
it is unclear how she would have personal knowledge of the purchase contract.
Nor could Dao testify as to the authenticity of the contract because she did
not draft it or sign it.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties
to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
Defendant has
not established an evidentiary basis for compelling arbitration because the
Court sustained Plaintiff’s objection to the retail sales installment contract
as discussed above. The petition is denied for lack of evidentiary support.
 
The Court
alternatively denies the petition on the merits. Though Plaintiff makes
arguments regarding the conscionability of the agreement, the main dispute
rests on the fact that Defendant was not a signatory to the arbitration
agreement in question, but Defendant argues that it should be able to compel
arbitration by virtue of the doctrine of equitable estoppel and Defendant’s
claim that it is a third-party beneficiary of the arbitration agreement.
 
“Under that
doctrine [of equitable estoppel] …a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and
intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237, quoting Boucher v. All
Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271 and Goldman v. KPMG, LLP
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 217–18 (internal quotation marks omitted).) The
sine qua non for application of equitable estoppel as the basis for allowing a
nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration clause is, “that the claims plaintiff
asserts against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably
intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of the agreement
containing the arbitration clause.” (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 217–18; accord, JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra, 193
Cal.App.4th at 1237.) “The fundamental point is that a party is not entitled to
make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as long as it worked
to her advantage, then attempt to avoid its application in defining the forum
in which her dispute . . . should be resolved.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of
Cal. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 306, quoting NORCAL Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Newton (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 64, 84 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
Courts examine the facts alleged in the operative complaint to determine
whether equitable estoppel applies. (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 229–30.) 
 
In one case, an
arbitration agreement that was in the retail sales agreement was found to
extend to a nonsignatory car manufacturer because “the arbitration provision in
this case provides for arbitration of disputes that include third parties so
long as the dispute pertains to the condition of the vehicle.” (Felisilda v.
FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 640, 648.) 
 
While the Court
sustained Plaintiff’s objection to the retail sales agreement attached to the
declaration of Defendant’s attorney, the language of the arbitration provision
in the retail sales agreement mentions third parties. It states as
follows: 
“Any claim or dispute … between you and us
or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates
to your … purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting
transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties
who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by
neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.  
(Dao Decl., Ex.
A.)
 
This language
is very similar to the language in Felisilda, which allowed the
defendant car manufacturer to compel arbitration as to the condition of the
vehicle. However, it is also worth noting that nothing in the language of the
arbitration agreement explicitly gives third parties the right to compel
arbitration on a signatory to the agreement, as the agreement states “at your
or our election,” meaning Plaintiff and the dealership. Additionally, the
plaintiff in Felisilda had sued both the dealership and the manufacturer
for Song-Beverly causes of action, which is not the case here. Plaintiff has
only sued Defendant American Honda, as the manufacturer, for the Song-Beverly
causes of action. The dealership that sold Plaintiff the vehicle, Galpin Honda,
is not a party to this action.
 
As the Court of
Appeal has observed, “[w]e agree with Ngo that the sales contracts
reflect no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer…nothing in the sale
contracts or their arbitration provision offers any direct “benefit” to the
[manufacturer].” (Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company – Ford Motor Warranty Cases
(2023) 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611, 623.) The manufacturer’s “claim that it ‘would
benefit from utilizing arbitration as an efficient means of dispute resolution
as an efficient means of dispute resolution’ (italics added) if treated
as a third party beneficiary begs the question: does the arbitration provision
directly benefit [the manufacturer]? The answer is patently ‘no.’ Its direct
benefits are expressly limited to those persons who might rely on it to avoid
proceeding in court – the purchaser, the dealer, the dealer’s employees,
agents, successors or assigns. [The manufacturer] is none of these.” (Id.)
 
The arbitration
provision in this case does not directly benefit the manufacturer, despite
Honda’s claims to the contrary. For reasons that are unclear, on page 13, and
other pages, Defendant includes quotes from non-existent paragraphs of the alleged
agreement that purport to mention Defendant American Honda. There are no such
mentions of Defendant in the agreement attached to Dao’s declaration. Defendant,
as the manufacturer, was clearly not a party to the arbitration agreement.
Further, the doctrine of equitable estoppel would not apply because the causes
of action against Defendant are not intertwined with the underlying contract
obligations, which was a sales contract with the dealership. 
 
First, the
petition is denied because Defendant failed to provide admissible evidentiary
support for the alleged arbitration agreement.
 
Alternatively,
this case is distinguishable from Felisilda and follows Ochoa
more closely. Therefore, the petition to compel arbitration is also denied on
the basis that Defendant is not a third-party beneficiary to the agreement.
 
Moving party to
give notice.