 Case Number:  22STCV20309    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and replying papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 22, 2022, Plaintiffs Melinda Gorham Rodrigues (“Rodrigues”) and Karson
McLeod (“McLeod”) filed this action against Defendants Marco Antonio Cortes
(“Cortes”), Pontrelli & Laricchia, LLC, Maestro Sausage Company, Pontrelli
& Laricchia, Ltd., and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
October 7, 2022, Defendants Pontrelli
& Laricchia, LLC, Pontrelli & Laricchia, LLC dba Maestro Sausage Company,
and Pontrelli & Laricchia, LLC, erroneously sued as Pontrelli & Laricchia,
Ltd. filed an answer. 
 On November 8, 2022, Cortes filed an answer. 
On
April 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to quash Cortes’s subpoenas for
records issued to GEICO General Insurance Company (“GEICO”), to be heard on May
31, 2024.  On May 16, 2024, Cortes filed
an opposition. On May 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to quash Cortes’s subpoena for records served on GEICO. 
Cortes
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. 
* * *
 “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been
brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action
is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. .
. .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On January
17, 2022, at Santa Monica Boulevard just west of North Orange Drive in Los
Angeles, Cortes operated a motor vehicle while employed by the other named
defendants, which owned the vehicle and entrusted it to Cortes.  Defendants negligently owned, operated,
and/or entrusted the vehicle, causing it to collide with Plaintiffs’ vehicle,
injuring Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs
have incurred hospital and medical expenses and have suffered physical
injuries, damages for pain and suffering, emotional distress, wage loss, loss
of earning capacity, general damages, and other forms of damage. 
B.   The subpoena for business records 
On April
3, 2024, Cortes served a subpoena for business records on GEICO.  The subpoena requested: 
“Any and all records and/or documents regarding any
incidents and/or accidents and/or claims involving KARSON MCLEOD and MELINDA
GORHAM RODRIGUES, including, but not exclusively limited to, a complete copy of
the insurance Policy No.: 4122186077, coverage provided under all policies,
reports, accident/incident reports, supplemental reports, statements, correspondence,
memoranda, notes, declaration page, emails, investigation files, medical records,
witness interviews, transcripts, communication, payments, and all color copies
of all photographs, digital photographs, audio recordings, video recordings,
diagrams, evidence logs, property logs and estimates/appraisals and records of
every description contained within the claims files created.” 
C.   The motion to quash 
Plaintiffs
argue the subpoena is overbroad in time and scope and violates Plaintiffs’
privacy rights.  In response, Cortes
invokes California’s “broad” discovery standard. 
The
subpoena seeks records and information that implicate Plaintiffs’ privacy
rights, bringing a different standard into play. “ ‘[W]hile the filing of a
lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s constitutional
right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver” must be narrowly
rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred
from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their private
associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . . . an
implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only discovery
directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair resolution
of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842;
see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have to give
way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance the
right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy
interests of persons subject to discovery”].) 
“[A]lthough
in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have
unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient
privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they
have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to
information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not
automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 (Britt) [trial court
erred by placing “absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain
wholesale disclosure of each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].)
“[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a
specific [physical,] mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold
information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have
put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the
confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they
may have undergone in the past.” (Id. at p. 864, fn. omitted.) 
“Even
when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues
of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be
a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be
narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the
least intrusive manner. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) 
Cortes
argues that “[i]t is important for Defendant’s analysis of the case to know
which medical records Geico considered” and “[i]t is highly relevant to [Cortes]
to see what information was considered by Geico’s adjusters in covering this
accident.”  (Opposition pp. 1-2.)  These assertions do not establish that the
subpoena seeks only information that is directly relevant to Plaintiffs’ claim or medical conditions they have put in issue. 
The
subpoena seeks, among other things, all medical reports in GEICO’s possession
without any limitation on the medical conditions the reports address.  The Court has weighed Cortes's stated need for the subpoenaed materials against Plaintiffs' privacy rights and concludes that the subpoena is overbroad and violates Plaintiffs’
privacy rights.  The Court grants the
motion and quashes the subpoena. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion filed by Plaintiffs Melinda Gorham Rodrigues and Karson
McLeod to quash the subpoena issued by Defendant Marco Antonio Cortes to GEICO General
Insurance Company on April 3, 2024.  The Court quashes the subpoena. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.