 Case Number:  23STCV07402    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 4, 2023, Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Marleny Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and
Walden Cornejo, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Jose Roberto
Cornejo, filed this action against Defendants Maria Elizabeth Beaucage, Gregory
Beaucage, and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
August 7, 2023, Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Marleny Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar,
and Walden Cornejo, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Walter
Cornejo, filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Maria Elizabeth
Beaucage, Gregory Beaucage, and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
August 24, 2024, the Court appointed Walter Cornejo to serve as the guardian ad
litem of Plaintiff Walden Cornejo. 
On
October 17, 2023, Defendants Maria Elizabeth Beaucage and Gregory Beaucage
filed a general denial to the original complaint. 
On
May 1, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel Ledezma Law, APLC, filed motions to be relieved
as counsel for Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and Walden Cornejo
by and through his guardian ad litem Walter Cornejo, to be heard on May 31,
2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 1, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUESTS 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Ledezma Law, APLC, asks to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and Walden Cornejo by and
through his guardian ad litem Walter Cornejo. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Ledezma
Law, APLC, has filed and served the papers required to support its motions to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Walter
Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and Walden Cornejo by and through his guardian ad
litem Walter Cornejo. The Court grants the motions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Ledezma Law, APLC’s motions to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Rodolfo Escobar, and Walden Cornejo by and through
his guardian ad litem Walter Cornejo filed on May 1, 2024.  Counsel will be
relieved upon filing proofs of service on Plaintiffs Walter Cornejo, Rodolfo
Escobar, and Walden Cornejo by and through his guardian ad litem Walter Cornejo
of the Orders Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil
(Judicial Council form MC-053). 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.