 Case Number:  20STCV28198    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 27, 2020, Plaintiff Chun Ho Tang (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Mario Salazar (“Salazar”), Harbor Dispatch Transport, Inc. (“Harbor
Dispatch”), and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
November 4, 2021, Salazar and Harbor Dispatch (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of Harbor
Dispatch’s person most knowledgeable and for sanctions, to be heard on May 31,
2024. On May 20, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently set for June 25, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order Harbor Dispatch to produce its person most knowledgeable for a deposition by May 15, 2024. Plaintiff also asks the Court to impose monetary
sanctions. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. 
* * *
“(g)(1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Harbor
Dispatch’s person most knowledgeable for a deposition on January 24, 2024. 
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff served an amended
deposition notice for Harbor Dispatch’s person most knowledgeable, setting the
deposition on March 14, 2024 at 2:00 p.m. “via remote video conference.”  
On March 7, 2024, Harbor Dispatch served objections
stating: (1) “Notice was made unilaterally and without
consideration for the calendar of Defense counsel or of the witness. [Citation.]
Counsel is unavailable on the date noticed. Accordingly, the deponent will not
be produced for deposition as noticed” and (2) “The Notice is vague, ambiguous,
and overbroad as to the location of the deposition.”   Harbor
Dispatch also objected to the “category[ies] of examination” and “requests for
production” in the deposition notice based on protections for proprietary
information, trade secrets, privacy, attorney-client privilege, and work
product doctrine. 
Plaintiff responded by email on March 7, 2024, asking
Harbor Dispatch to provide available dates for the deposition by May 15, 2024.  Harbor Dispatch did not provide a “date
certain” by the time Plaintiff filed this motion on March 28, 2024. 
Plaintiff argues the Court should compel Harbor Dispatch to
produce its person most knowledgeable for deposition because Harbor Dispatch
failed to provide its person most knowledgeable for the scheduled deposition
without having served a valid objection. 
Harbor Dispatch opposes the motion, arguing, the motion is not ripe because Plaintiff canceled the deposition.  Harbor Dispatch contends that Plaintiff’s
cancellation of the deposition prevents Plaintiff from establishing that Harbor
Dispatch’s person most knowledgeable “fail[ed] to appear for examination” for purposes
of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a). 
The Court does not believe that the party which
notices a deposition is required to incur cancellation fees resulting from the
deponent’s non-appearance before moving to compel the deponent’s appearance at a
deposition.  Such a rule would place an
unfair burden on parties with limited resources because they have no guarantee
of recovering the cancellation fees as sanctions.  Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
cancellation of the deposition, after Harbor Dispatch stated that its person
most knowledgeable would not appear, does not prevent Plaintiff from moving to
compel the deposition. 
Citing California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(4), Harbor
Dispatch also argues that Plaintiff was required to file a separate statement to
support its motion.  Harbor Dispatch does
not cite California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1), which provides that “[a]
separate statement is not required under the following circumstances: (1) When
no response has been provided to the request for discovery . . . .”  No separate statement was required. 
Harbor Dispatch also argues that Harbor Dispatch's objections to the deposition notice were valid because
the notice is overbroad and “seeks irrelevant information and documents, seeks
to invade third-party(ies)’ privacy rights, and seeks to invade the attorney-client
communication and work product doctrines.” 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), the
Court must determine whether the deponent “served a valid objection under [Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 2025.410.”  A valid objection is one that identifies errors and
irregularities that prevent a deposition notice from “comply[ing] with Article
2 (commencing with [Code of Civil Procedure] Section 2025.210) . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a); see
P. Knighten, Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civil Proceedings, Discovery (Thomson
Reuters 2022) § 15.16, pp. 371-372 [listing valid ground for objecting to
deposition subpoena].) Harbor Dispatch’s
objections do not meet this standard because they do not identify errors or
irregularities that prevent Plaintiff’s deposition notice from complying with
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 to 2025.295.  Harbor Dispatch may make appropriate
objections during the deposition. 
The Court concludes that Harbor Dispatch’s objections
did not justify its failure to produce its person most knowledgeable for the March
14, 2024 deposition.  The  Court grants
the motion and orders Harbor Dispatch to produce its person most knowledgeable for deposition
within 30 days of the Court’s order.  Sanctions are mandatory under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1), unless the Court finds that “the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.450, subd. (g)(1).)  The Court finds that Harbor Dispatch did not act with
substantial justification in failing to produce its person most knowledgeable for
deposition. 
 Plaintiff
requests $1,260.00 in sanctions based on four hours of attorney time at a rate
of $325.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee. 
The Court awards $810.00 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney
time at a rate of $250.00 per hour and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Chun Ho Tang’s motion to
compel Defendant Harbor Dispatch Transport, Inc. to produce its person
most knowledgeable for deposition. The Court orders Defendant Harbor Dispatch Transport,
Inc., to produce its person most knowledgeable for deposition within 30 days of the
Court’s order. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff
Chun Ho Tang’s request for sanctions and orders Defendant Harbor Dispatch
Transport, Inc. and its counsel to pay Plaintiff Chun Ho Tang $810.00
within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.