 Case Number:  23SMCV04372    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  I This is a request to compel production of certain records
from the LAPD.  The LAPD has objected
claiming that producing the documents, even with a protective order, could
jeopardize an ongoing murder investigation and therefore it resists production
under Evidence Code 1040.  The detective
on the case has declared that there is a lot of identifying information in the
materials sought, and that it is that production that could be difficult given
that there is still a suspect at large. 
Section 1040 is the exclusive means of protecting the documents in
question from discovery.  To rule on the
1040 objection, the court must look at each piece of evidence and determine
first whether the information was obtained in confidence and, if so, there is a
necessity for retaining the confidentiality that outweighs the party’s interest
in obtaining the information.  The
statute allows the court to review the material in camera to make that
determination.  The court believes that
the investigative file and the information in it was obtained in confidence, so
the question is weighing the evidence.
 
Because the evidence must be weighed piece by piece, the
court assumes that the LAPD has done just that and that every single piece of
information in the file that has not been produced will, in the LAPD’s opinion,
jeopardize the investigation.  If the
LAPD has not done that, it ought to do so now. 
The court will sign the proposed protective order, and if the LAPD
believes that some of the information can therefore be turned over, it ought to
do so.  The court will review what is
left, and only what is left, in camera. 
The court will continue the hearing to allow time for that review.  At the continued hearing, the court will
inquire of the LAPD and its investigating detective as to how each piece must
remain confidential in order to protect the integrity of the investigation and
to maximize the chance of arresting the remaining perpetrator.  The court has no question or doubt that those
interests outweigh the need for defendant to obtain the information, at least
at this moment.  It is a murder
investigation, after all.  But the court
will need to ascertain whether keeping the information confidential is actually
important to achieving those goals.  The
court will endeavor to have as much of the hearing in public or at least with
all parties present as possible, which may mean that the evidence is identified
by generic production number and that the detective’s statements are not
particularized to the point of revealing the purportedly confidential
information.  If necessary, though, the
court may have to hold portions of the hearing in camera as well.
 