 Case Number:  22STCV31779    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 28, 2022, Plaintiff Francisco Miguel Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Arencibia Trucking Inc., Arencibia Logistic, Inc.,
Jose Ramon Preciado, and Does 1- 100 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
January 27, 2023, Defendants Arencibia Trucking, Inc.,
Arencibia Logistic, Inc., and Jose Ramon Preciado (“Defendants”) filed an
answer. 
On
June 11, 2024, Defendants filed and electronically served motions for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
On
June 14, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to specially set a hearing date for
their summary judgment motions or to continue the trial.  The motion was set to be heard on July 17,
2024.  On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On July 10, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.  On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
sur-reply. 
Trial
is currently set for September 26, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to specially set the motions for summary judgment before the trial
or to continue the trial.  Defendants
also ask the Court to set all the summary judgment hearings on the same date. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment scheduling 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a) provides: 
“(1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers
shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the
time appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required
75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is
within the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the
State of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of
address is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30
days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a
party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
          To satisfy the statutory notice requirement, a summary
judgment motion “must be served at least 105 days before trial (longer if
served by mail) [citation].  Motions
served electronically must be served at least 107 days before trial.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 10:71, pp. 10-32 to 10-33.)  “The 30-day ‘cut-off’ under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c] is measured from the trial date in effect when the
summary judgment motion is made.”  (Id.,
¶ 10:74, p. 10-33.)   “[A] continuance of
the trial date ‘reopens’ the time for such motions.”  (Ibid.) 
B.       Trial
continuance 
“[A]
party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or
uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the request for a
continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under the rules in
chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The party must make
the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity
for the continuance is discovered.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
The
Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to death,
illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all facts
and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the trial
date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
DISCUSSION 
          On June 11, 2024, Defendants timely filed and electronically
served motions for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication.  Due to the Court’s
impacted calendar, the first available date for a hearing on the motions was
after the September 26, 2024 trial date. 
For the same reason, the Court cannot specially set the hearing on the
motions before the trial date. 
          Plaintiff argues the Court should deny Defendants’
alternative request to continue the trial because Defendants should have filed
their summary judgment motions earlier.  But “[a] trial court may not
refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of
section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be applied so as to
prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion. [Citation.].”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.)   
The
Court continues the trial to February 27, 2025. The Court denies Defendants’ request to set all three summary judgment
motions for hearing on the same date. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Arencibia Trucking, Inc., Arencibia Logistic, Inc.,
and Jose Ramon Preciado to
specially set a hearing date for their summary judgment motions or to continue the trial.  The Court continues the trial to February 27,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final Status Conference is continued to
February 13, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.  All discovery and related
dates will be based on the new trial date. 
The
Court DENIES the request of Defendants Arencibia Trucking, Inc., Arencibia
Logistic, Inc., and Jose Ramon Preciado to set all three summary judgment motions
for hearing on the same date. 
Moving
parties are to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.