 Case Number:  22STCV11131    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 1, 2022, Plaintiff Chavis Harris (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants KMS Enterprises Inc., Shell Oil Company, C.F.Y., LLC (“CFY”), and
Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
May 20, 2022, Defendant Shell USA, Inc. fka Shell Oil Company (“Shell”) filed
an answer.  On June 1, 2022, Defendants
KSM Enterprises, Inc., erroneously sued as KMS Enterprises Inc. (“KSM”), and
CFY filed an answer. 
On
May 31, 2024, Shell filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint to be
heard on July 17, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 19, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Shell
asks for leave to file a cross-complaint against R. M. Parks, Inc. (“Parks”)
and Roes 1-100 for implied indemnity, equitable indemnity, express contractual
indemnity, breach of written contract, negligence, declaratory relief re: duty
to defend, and declaratory relief re: duty to indemnify. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:         
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
          “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”  (Silver Org. Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  “Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development
Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.    The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on or about September 15, 2020, while Plaintiff was
walking near the entrance area of Defendants’ premises at or near 2589 N.
Lakewood Boulevard in Long Beach, California (“premises”), Plaintiff “was
struck by an unmarked and/or unsecured fire extinguisher box and/or cabinet
and/or similar object,” injuring him. 
B.       Shell’s motion for leave to file
cross-complaint 
Shell
requests leave to file a cross-complaint alleging that (1) the premises was one
of Parks’s outlets, (2) Parks and Shell entered an agreement on or about
February 1, 2020 requiring Parks to keep its outlets “in a clean, sanitary, and
safe condition and all property and equipment kept in good operating condition
and repair,” and (3) the agreement required Park to defend and indemnify Shell,
and (4) Shell tendered Plaintiff’s action to Parks for a defense and indemnity
under the agreement but Parks did not accept the tender. The
Court grants Shell’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Shell USA, Inc. fka Shell Oil
Company’s motion to file a cross-complaint against R. M. Parks, Inc.  The
Court orders Defendant Shell USA, Inc.
fka Shell Oil Company to file its cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing
on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.