 Case Number:  24STCV15375    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  34 Plaintiff SWC CA OPCO 2, LLC’s Applications of John E.
Zummo, Aharon S. Kaye and Monica T. Whitten to appear as counsel Pro Hac
Vice for Plaintiff is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On June 20,
2024, Plaintiff SWC CA OPCO 2, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for breach
of contract and related causes of actions against Defendants OHG Meadowood, LLC,
Steven Atlas and Asher Rokowsky (collectively, the “Defendants”).
On June 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed applications of John
E. Zummo, Aharon S. Kaye and Monica T. Whitten to appear as counsel pro
hac vice for Plaintiff (collectively referred to as the “Applications”). 
On August
19, 2024, Defendants filed their Answer.
Legal
Standard
California
Rule of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified application
together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application and notice
of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of
California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long
as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and is not
regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State of California.
The
application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and
telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record in the local action. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40, subd. (d).)
Discussion
The court
finds that the Applications comply with the requirements of Rule 9.40.
The Applications
are GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve a copy
of this court’s orders concerning the Applications on the State Bar within 10
days of this ruling.
The court
will also schedule a Case Management Conference for December 9, 2024 at 9:00
a.m.
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.