  Case Number:  22LBCV01094    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S25 TENTATIVE RULING: Defendant's Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action in the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Defendant's Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.BackgroundOn August 9, 2023, Josue Fajardo and Renne Avila (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed their First Amended Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC, and Does 1 through 10, asserting five causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b); (3) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (A)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment. The FAC arises from the warranty obligations in connection with a 2022 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 vehicle (the “Subject Vehicle”) for which Defendant General Motors issued a written warranty.AnalysisDemurrer to the 5th Cause of Action of the First Amended ComplaintA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc, § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)Defendant General Motors (“GM”) argues the fifth cause of action (Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment) fails to allege (i) “the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed materials facts or made untrue representations about their Silverado, (ii) their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge about the alleged defects in Plaintiffs’ Silverado at the time of purchase, (iv) any interactions with GM before or during the purchase of the Silverado, or (v) GM’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiffs to purchase the specific Silverado at issue.” Motion, p. 4:9-14. Defendant GM asserts the First Amended Complaint “does not establish GM’s intent to defraud Plaintiffs or demonstrate the Silverado was unsuitable for its intended use at the time of purchase.” Motion, p. 4:15-16. Relying on Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th828, 843-44, review granted), Plaintiffs claim the elements of fraudulent inducement by concealment have been satisfied. FAC, ¶¶ 9, 38, 40, 46-47, 71-72, 74-79, 82-83, 85. The Court agrees with Defendant.The elements for fraud based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage. (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311; Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.) Additionally, fraud must be pled specifically wherein a plaintiff shows “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 74.) Furthermore, in an action against a corporation, a plaintiff must “allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)First, Plaintiff has failed to allege specific facts, namely that Defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed a material fact with the intent to defraud Plaintiff. In the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs assert Defendant committed fraud by allowing the Subject Vehicle to be sold without “disclosing that the Vehicle and its 8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature failure” and Defendant was aware of the “‘Transmission Defect’ prior to Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle.” FAC, ¶ 70-71. Plaintiffs insist Defendant was aware of this defect as far back as September 2014 and concealed and/or suppressed this material fact. Yet, despite these allegations, Footnote 6 of Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint sets forth the numerous Technical Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) reports regarding transmission concerns/defects since September 2014 and up to 2022 that were made publicly available. FAC, p. 13, Footnote 6. Plaintiffs have not alleged how Defendant had “exclusive knowledge” of the material fact and owed a duty to Plaintiffs to disclose the allegedly omitted material fact regarding the transmission when Plaintiffs and members of the public had access to the publicly available TSBs.Second, Plaintiffs have not identified who made what statements, how such statements were made, when those statements were made, and where they reviewed them. The First Amended Complaint states “Plaintiffs are reasonable consumers who interacted with sales representatives, considered Defendant GM’s advertisement, and/or other marketing materials concerns GM Vehicles prior to purchasing/leasing Subject Vehicle.” FAC, ¶ 74. Plaintiffs fail to identify the agents of Defendant with whom they negotiated during the sales process. As explained above, under controlling case law, Plaintiffs must allege the names of the persons who allegedly made the fraudulent representations or omissions because Defendant is a corporate entity. Defendant has no more reason to know who made allegedly false representations or failed to disclose the “Transmission Defect” to Plaintiffs than Plaintiffs.For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains Defendant's demurrer as to the fifth cause of action as Plaintiffs have failed to plead with the specificity required this claim. Because “[l]eave to amend is liberally allowed,” the Court grants Plaintiffs leave to file a Second Amended Complaint. (See Kempton v. City of Los Angeles (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1348.)Motion to StrikeDefendant moves to strike punitive damages from Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint on the grounds that Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement by concealment cause of action fails as a matter of law and, therefore, any prayer for punitive damages must also fail and be stricken.Upon a party's motion or the court's own motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)In light of the Court's ruling on the Demurrer, Defendant's Motion to Strike is DENIED as moot.