 Case Number:  23LBCV02302    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  S25 TENTATIVE RULING: The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Saideh Ghasemi Moghadam is GRANTED.The Court's Ruling and Counsel’s relief as Counsel of record for Plaintiff is not effective until Proof of Service of the Order signed by the Court upon the client is filed in this action. Until then, Counsel continues to be counsel of record. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(e).)Case Management Conference is continued to July 31, 2024, at 8:30 in Dept. S25. The Court requests Counsel Moghadam advise Plaintiff Erby of the future date.BackgroundOn December 4, 2023, Randis Erby filed his Complaint against Express Services, Inc., Mike Doe, and Does 1 to 100, asserting five causes of action for (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Negligence; (5) Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention. The Complaint alleges that on or about December 13, 2021, Plaintiff was at or near 3299 East Hill Street, Suite 303, Signal Hill, CA 90755 (the “Subject Premises”). Plaintiff was present at the Subject Premises to complete a job application, however, changed his mind and decided not to complete the job application. As Plaintiff left the Subject Premises, Defendant Mike Doe allegedly attacked Plaintiff. On March 1, 2024, Defendant Express Services, Inc. filed its Answer.AnalysisThe court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd. (2).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Forms MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).)In addition, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 subsection (d) requires that the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case by personal service, electronic service, or mail. If the notice is served by mail, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:(A) The service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or(B) The service address is the last known residence or business address of the client, and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable effortsto do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (1)(A) & (2).)Counsel properly filed a Notice of Motion and Motion (MC-051). Counsel also filed a Declaration in Support of the Motion (MC-052) stating that:Despite numerous and repeated efforts, Plaintiff's counsel has been unable to establish and maintain regular contact and communication with the Plaintiff, which has inhibited and hindered counsel's efforts in effectively prosecuting this matter on behalf of the Plaintiff. Counsel's inability, despite numerous attempts, to maintain regular contact and communication with the Plaintiff has caused a complete breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. Therefore, it is respectfully submitted that these moving attorneys be relieved as counsel of record due to justifiable cause. (Form MC-052, ¶ 2.)Counsel indicates that he has served the client by mail at the client’s last known address with copies of the motion papers served with his declaration. (MC-052 ¶ 3a(2).) Counsel declares he is unable to confirm that the address is current or to locate a more current address for the client after (1) mailing the motion papers to the client’s last known address, return receipt requested; (2) calling the client's last known telephone number or number; (3) contacting the client’s mother by telephone; and (4) conducting a search by running a TLO, calling the numbers, and sending letters to last address and email address. (MC-052 ¶ 3b(2).)Counsel provides the Court with requisite Proposed Order and Form MC-053, as well as a proof of service, attesting that both Plaintiff and Defendant Express Services, Inc. were served with the Notice, Motion, Declaration, and Order. Lastly, no trial date has been set in this matter, Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by granting of the motion.RulingThe Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Saideh Ghasemi Moghadam is GRANTED. The Court's Ruling and Counsel’s relief as Counsel of record for Plaintiff is not effective until Proof of Service of the Order signed by the Court upon the client is filed in this action. Until then, Counsel continues to be counsel of record. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(e).)Case Management Conference is continued to July 31, 2024, at 8:30 in Dept. S25. The Court requests Counsel Moghadam advise Plaintiff Erby of the future date.