

 
            Plaintiff Ernest J. Franceschi, Jr. (Plaintiff)
moves for an order disqualifying attorney Guy E. Jamison as counsel for
Defendant. Defendant opposes the motion. 
 
            The motion to
disqualify is denied.    
 
            Plaintiff’s
objections to the Jamison declaration and the Wolfe declaration are overruled.
These overly broad objections object to both admissible and inadmissible
statements and, thus, must be overruled. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
            “Ultimately,
disqualification motions involve a conflict between the clients’ right to
counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of
professional responsibility.” (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v.
SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145.) “The
paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous
administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.” (Ibid.)
 
 Generally, a motion to disqualify
requires a showing of standing, such as present or past attorney-client
relationship with a party or that the attorney breached a duty of confidentiality
owed to a certain party. (Blue Water
Sunset, LLC v. Markowitz (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 477, 485.) 
 
            “Where the potential
conflict is one that arises from the successive representation of
clients with potentially adverse interests, the courts have recognized that the
chief fiduciary value jeopardized is that of client confidentiality.
Thus, where a former client seeks to have a previous attorney disqualified from
serving as counsel to a successive client in litigation adverse to the
interests of the first client, the governing test requires that the client
demonstrate a “substantial relationship ” between the subjects of the
antecedent and current representations.” (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994)
9 Cal.4th 275, 283.) In the alternative, “a party may obtain the
disqualification of an attorney by establishing that the targeted attorney . .
. has actual knowledge of material confidential information.” (Faughn v.
Perez (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 592, 603.)
 
            “In simultaneous
representation cases, ‘[t]he primary value at stake ... is the attorney's
duty—and the client's legitimate expectation—of loyalty, rather than
confidentiality.’ ” (In re Charlisse C. (2008) 45 Cal.4th 145, 160.) “
‘With few exceptions, disqualification [in a case of simultaneous
representation] follows automatically,’ ” without any showing that the client's
confidential communications are at risk. (Ibid.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves to disqualify Attorney Guy E. Jamison as counsel for Dan Wolfe on the
grounds that there is a conflict of interest. 
 
This purported conflict arises from Attorney
Jamison’s representation of Wolfe and Hawthorne Hangar Operations, LP (HHO) in
the pending and ongoing litigation entitled Hawthorne Hangar Operations,
L.P. and Dan Wolfe v. Production Capital, LLC, et al. LASC Case No,
21STCV39700 (Hawthorne Hangar Action). 
 
            At
issue is whether attorney Jamison was acting as the attorney to Plaintiff Franceschi
in Plaintiff’s capacity as a limited partner of HHO in the ongoing Hawthorne
Hangar Action, such that Plaintiff’s filing this action means Jamison
cannot take the adverse position of representing Wolfe against Plaintiff. That
is, asserts Plaintiff, Attorney Jamison cannot represent Plaintiff Franceschi in
the Hawthorne Hangar Action while taking an adverse position against Plaintiff
by representing a defendant in this action brought by Plaintiff. 
 
            An
attorney may not accept or continue representation of a client if the attorney
has a legal relationship with a party or witness in the same matter. (Rules of
Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.7.)[1]
An attorney may not, without informed written consent, represent more than
one client on a matter in which the interests of the clients actually or
potentially conflict. (Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.7.)2 A
client's right to counsel of his choice must yield to ethical considerations
that aim to preserve the integrity of the bar and the scrupulous administration
of justice. (Metro–Goldwyn–Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 1832, 1838.)
 
            By
way of background, Defendant Wolfe is the sole director and shareholder of
Wolfe Air Aviation, Ltd. -- a California corporation that is the manager and
controlling member of Hawthorne Hangar Management, LLC, which in turn is the
general partner and Manager of HHO. According to the pleadings, Defendant Wolfe
offered Plaintiff, a trial attorney, an ownership interest in HHO if he would
continue to represent HHO in the anti-trust action.
 
            At its core, this action is an action for fraud arising from the alleged
failure to pay for Plaintiff’s legal services. When Defendants were unable to
pay for Plaintiff’s legal services, Defendants agreed to provide for payment of
the yet unpaid $175,000.00 flat retainer fee together with an immediate
transfer of a four percent (4%) limited partnership interest in HHO; Defendants
represented that this 4% limited partnership interest in HHO had a present
value of $500,000. (FAC ¶ 11.) The FAC alleges that Defendants, thereafter, allowed
virtually all of HHO's equity to be converted by third parties, Kevin Robl and
Remmington Chase, through their fraud and the fraudulent loan that they
procured. (FAC ¶¶ 13-15.)
            
In the Hawthorne Hangar Action, the
pleadings allege a fraudulent scheme by Defendants to obtain and convert excess
loan proceeds for their personal benefit and to foreclose upon valuable real
property owned by Plaintiffs Dan Wolfe (Wolfe) and Hawthorne Hangar Operations,
LP (HHO). Defendant Kevin Robl (Robl), authorized to act on behalf of Wolfe and
HHO solely for the purpose of obtaining a $5.5 million loan at 2.75% interest
rate to refinance the Hawthorne Hangar Property and limited by the requirement
of Wolfe’s written approval of the resulting loan, instead, fraudulently
obtained a $7.3 million loan at a 10% interest rate without Wolfe’s written
consent and thereafter converted and embezzled the excess proceeds in the
amount of $2,939,616.35. The operative complaint further alleges that each of
the Defendants played a key role in the fraudulent scheme, facilitated the
fraudulent loan transaction and reaped substantial benefit from the conspiracy
to defraud Wolfe and HHO.
 
            Relevant
to this motion to disqualify, Defendant Wolfe argues that Plaintiff Franceschi  lacks standing to bring this disqualification motion
because he cannot prove a present or past attorney-client relationship between himself
and Jamison. Even assuming Plaintiff can make this showing, Defendant also
argues Plaintiff cannot show that Attorney Jamison possesses any confidential information relevant to
the present controversy obtained from Plaintiff, his purported former client.[2]

 
            “The burden
is on the party seeking disqualification to establish the attorney-client
relationship. [Citation.]” (Shen v. Miller (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 48,
56–57.)
 
            An
attorney “represents a client—for purposes of a conflict of interest
analysis—when the attorney knowingly obtains material confidential information
from the client and renders legal advice or services as a result.” (People
ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1135, 1148; accord, Med-Trans Corp., Inc. v. City of California City
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 655, 667.) “An attorney-client relationship can only be
created by contract, express or implied.” (Shen v. Miller, supra, 212
Cal.App.4th at 57; see Koo v. Rubio's Restaurants, Inc. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 719, 729.) Therefore, “ ‘[i]ntent and conduct are critical to the
formation of an attorney-client relationship.’ ” (Shen, at p. 57; see Canton
Poultry & Deli, Inc. v. Stockwell, Harris, Widom & Woolverton
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1219, 1228.) The relationship “is not created by the
unilateral declaration of one party to the relationship.” (Koo, supra,
109 Cal.App.4th at p. 729.)
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Attorney Jamison’s representation of HHO and its general
partner, Wolfe, does not automatically create an attorney-client relationship between
HHO’s limited partners, including Plaintiff Franceschi, and HHO’s attorney. (Johnson v. Superior Court (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 463,
477, [“[M]ere representation of a partnership does not per se constitute
representation of the individual partners.”].) 
 
             Courts have identified several factors to consider when determining whether counsel for
the partnership has an implied attorney-client relationship with the individual
partners; the factors include: (1) the “size of the partnership,” because a
partnership of few members may suggest individual representation of the members
while a partnership with hundreds of members may not; (2) whether the
attorney's engagement is for routine partnership business unrelated to the
individual interests of a partner, thereby negating an implication of
individual representation; (3) the “kind and extent of contacts between the
attorneys and the individual partners;” (4) the “attorney's access to financial
information relating to the individual partner's interests;” and (5) whether
the totality of the circumstances “ ‘implies an agreement by the
partnership attorney not to accept other representations adverse to the
individual partner's personal interests.’ “ (Johnson v. Superior Court,
supra, 38 Cal.App.4th at pp. 476–477 [ applying the Responsible
Citizens's multifactor test]; Responsible
Citizens v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1732–1733.)
 
            Plaintiff Franceschi
does not address any of the factors the Court is required to consider when
determining whether counsel for the partnership has an implied attorney-client
relationship with the individual limited partners. Moreover, although there
appears to be fewer than ten partners to the partnership, the remaining factors
do not appear to weigh in favor of finding an attorney client relationship.
Specifically, the only evidence of any contact between Plaintiff Franceschi and
Attorney Jamison submitted by Plaintiff is a single email wherein Jamison asked
Plaintiff to review a court filing in the Hawthorne Hangar Action.
(Franceschi Decl., ¶ 4, Ex.  3.) Moreover,
there is no evidence that Jamison had any access to financial information
relating to any of the partner's interests. Finally, there is no other evidence
that, in considering the totality of the circumstances, would imply an “agreement
by the partnership attorney not to accept other representations adverse to the
individual partner's personal interests.” In fact, Defendant’s evidence suggest
that these factors do not weigh in Plaintiff’s favor. (Jamison Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
            Plaintiff
has not met his burden of showing an attorney client relationship with Jamison
that creates a conflict of interest through concurrent conflicting representations.

 
            Plaintiff also argues that Jamison
must be disqualified because he will be required to provide testimony
pertaining to his handling of the Hawthorne Hangar Action and, thus, will be required
to be act as both advocate and witness in this matter. (Mot., 5:22-25.) 
 
            A
disqualification motion may be based on an attorney’s dual roles as an advocate
and a witness. “The ‘advocate-witness rule,’ which prohibits an attorney from
acting both as an advocate and a witness in the same proceeding, has long been
a tenet of ethics in the American legal system....” (Kennedy v. Eldridge
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1208.)
 
            Further,
under
California Rule of Professional Conduct 3.7 (a), which provides in pertinent
part:  “A lawyer shall not act as an
advocate in a trial in which the lawyer is likely to be a witness unless: (1)
the lawyer's testimony relates to an uncontested issue or matter; (2) the
lawyer's testimony s relates to the nature and value of legal services rendered
in the  case; or (3) the lawyer has
obtained informed written consent from the client.”
 
            It is worth
noting that the purpose of this rule is to protect the client. (In re
Marriage of Murchison (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 847, 853 fn. 4; Smith,
Smith & Kring v. Superior Court (Oliver) (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 573, 580
[“ ‘[T]he fact that the client has consented to the dual capacity must be given
great weight.’ ”]; Reynolds v. Superior Court (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d
1021, 1028.)
 
            Defendant
Wolfe has not objected on this ground. Admittedly there is no client consent
filed. However, since
the filing of the motion to disqualify, Plaintiff has filed a First Amended
Complaint that now names Jamison as a defendant, alleging that he breached his
fiduciary duty to Plaintiff and the limited partners. Although the moving
papers referenced a possibility of malpractice against Jaminson that might also
warrant disqualification, it was not until the filing of the FAC that Jaminson
became a party to the litigation. Given the recent filing of the FAC
and the more focused argument being made only on reply, the absence of this
client consent is not suspicious.
 
            Moreover,
as the FAC was not filed until after
the filing of this motion, this basis is not a proper grounds for
disqualification because it was not fully at issue in the moving papers.
For Plaintiff to raise it now on reply deprives Defendant of the ability to
directly address Plaintiff’s argument with respect to the new allegations.  
 
            Further, even assuming that Jamison’s conduct as
a testifying witness while acting as an advocate would constitute an ethical
violation, a “violation of a rule of the State Bar Rules of Professional
Conduct does not necessarily compel disqualification.” (Hetos Investments,
Ltd. v. Kurtin (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 36, 47) Moreover, in In re
Marriage of Murchison (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 847—where the attorney was joined as a necessary party— the court
explained:
 
“In fact, we found no case which permits a court
to disqualify a lawyer for ethical violations when the nonmoving party wishes
to continue the representation and the representation does not harm the
opposing party's interest. A court is not powerless to act, however, in the
face of such possible ethical violations; it has the option to report an
attorney it believes has acted unethically to the bar for discipline. Although
others in Wife's position may have acted differently, we must respect Wife's
choice to retain Lawyer. (See San Francisco, supra, 38 Cal.4th at p.
851, 43 Cal.Rptr.3d 771, 135 P.3d 20 [“clients have a right to retain their
chosen counsel”]; see also Sharp v. Next Entertainment Inc. (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 410, 430, 78 Cal.Rptr.3d 37 [recognizing “ ‘the autonomy of
individuals to make reasoned judgments about the trade-offs that are at stake’
” after they are informed of counsel's potential conflict].)”
 
Ultimately, the Murchison court
concluded that given husband’s lack of standing to challenge his wife’s choice
of attorney by disqualification, the lack of authority requiring
disqualification under these circumstances and the importance of a client’s
right to choose his or her counsel, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial
court’s decision disqualifying the attorney. 
 
Lastly, and importantly, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate any specific
prejudice would result from this dual capacity – aside from mere speculation.
(Reply 10:5-14.)  
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to disqualify counsel is denied.
Additionally, Plaintiff is ordered to file a Notice of Related Cases in this
action and in the Hawthorne Hangar action, LASC No. 21STCV39700, on or
before January 24, 2025. 


