

 
            This is an
employment discrimination and wage and hour dispute. Plaintiff Joanne Anderson (Plaintiff) filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) on October 22, 2024 against her former employer, Defendant 5 Seasons Showroom LLC
(Defendant), for (1.) wrongful termination in violation of
public policy, (2.) discrimination based upon disability/perceived disability,
(3.) harassment based upon disability/perceived disability, (4.) retaliation,
(5.) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation, (6.)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (7.) failure to pay wages and
(8.) waiting time penalties.
 
            Defendant
5 Seasons Showroom LLC demurs to
the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim. The seventh
and eighth causes of action, which allege violations of the California Labor
Code, are not the subject of this demurrer. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. 
 
            The
demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in part.        
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a);
see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions
of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280,
286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .”
’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In
applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v.
Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
First, Second, Third, Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action based on a FEHA Disability:
 
Defendant
argues the first, second, third, fourth and fifth causes of action in the FAC
fail to state a claim because Plaintiff has not alleged a disability as defined
by FEHA. Each of these causes of action allege discrimination on the basis of Plaintiff’s
alleged “disability/perceived disability.” 
 
Under FEHA,
it is unlawful for an employer, because of a person’s physical or mental
disability “to discharge the person from employment….” (Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (a).) To plead a prima facie claim for disability discrimination under
the FEHA, a plaintiff must show: (1) she suffers from a disability or was
regarded by her employer as having a disability; (2) she is otherwise qualified
to do her job; and (3) she was subjected to adverse employment action because
of her disability.” (Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal. App. 4th
245, 255.) 
 
The demurrer
argues, however, that Plaintiff has not alleged that she suffered from a
disability as defined under FEHA.
 
As a preliminary
matter, “[n]ot every illness qualifies as [a] disability.” (Featherstone v.
S. California Permanente Med. Grp. (2017) 10 Cal. App. 5th 1150, 1167.) 
 
“Physical
disability” is defined under FEHA to include “[h]aving any physiological
disease, disorder, condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss” that
both (1) affects one or more of the “body['s] systems,” including the
“musculoskeletal,” “genitourinary,” and “hemic” systems, and (2) “[l]imits a
major life activity.” (Gov. Code., § 12926, subd. (m)(1).) The meaning of
“major life activity” is “broadly construed” and includes “working.” (Gov.
Code, § 12926, subd. (m)(1)(B)(iii).) A limit on a major life activity means
simply that “it makes the achievement of the major life activity difficult.” (Id.,
subd. (m)(1)(B)(ii).) 
 
Disability,
however, does not include “conditions that are mild, which do not limit a major
life activity, as determined on a case-by-case basis. These excluded conditions
have little or no residual effects, such as the common cold; seasonal or common
influenza; minor cuts, sprains, muscle aches, soreness, bruises, or abrasions;
non-migraine headaches, and minor and non-chronic gastrointestinal disorders.”
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11065, subd. (9)(B).)


Here, the
FAC alleges that Plaintiff “had a very serious medical condition that required
surgery.  Specifically, Plaintiff
informed Defendant that she suffered from recurrent sinusitis which caused
Plaintiff to experience painful symptoms including significant sinus pain and
headaches, swelling in her nasal cavity due to congestion, and frequent sinus
infections.” (FAC ¶ 3.) Plaintiff further alleges that, over the next several
months, her health condition continued to deteriorate as she regularly suffered
from painful sinus infections and related symptoms; as a result, Plaintiff was
occasionally required to take time off of work due to her condition. (FAC ¶ 7.)
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff informed Defendant that her condition would require surgery that
would also result in her needing to take additional time off from work to
recover. (FAC ¶ 3.)
 
These
allegations sufficiently show the existence of an ongoing medical condition
that repeatedly required Plaintiff to take days off of work because – as the
Court may infer – she was suffering from “significant sinus pain and
headaches.” 
 
To be sure,
the allegations provide only the bare minimum of supporting detail and only
vague, generalized assertions of the limitation of major life activity. However,
“[r]epeated or extended absences from work may constitute a limitation on the
major life activity of working.” (Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc.
(2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 588; id. at p. 578 [finding that a series of
nine doctor appointments and the possibility of missing more work for surgery
limited plaintiff's major life activity of working]; see also Ross v. County
of Riverside (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 580, 595 [“[Plaintiff's] physical
impairment limited the major life activity of working because it required
[plaintiff] to be absent from work periodically over several months to travel
to an out-of-state clinic for medical testing.”].) As such, these allegations are
sufficient to allege a disability at the pleading stage.
 
Defendant
also contends that the act of providing notice of surgery alone does not
suggest she suffered from a disability, citing Avila v. Cont’l Airlines,
Inc. (2008) 165 Cal. App. 4th 1237, 1249 for the proposition that “[i]nforming
[defendant] merely that plaintiff had been hospitalized was not sufficient to
put [defendant] on notice that plaintiff was suffering from a qualifying
disability.” (Dem. 7:10-22 [also citing Sanchez v. Master Protection, LP
(C.D. Cal., Sept. 29, 2021, No. 220CV08472VAPRAOX) 2021 WL 5994523, at *6 [holding
notice of surgery “does not suggest [plaintiff] suffered from a disability”].)
 
However, the
facts here are not a merely hospitalization, but advance notice of a surgery
for ongoing medical condition that, allegedly, repeatedly interrupted
Plaintiff’s ability to perform her employment duties. Although, the demurrer
repeatedly characterizes the surgery as “elective,” this fact is not alleged in
the FAC and also not determinative of whether the surgery indicates Plaintiff
suffered from a disability.  
 
Secondly, Defendant
also argues that there are no allegations that Defendant “regarded” Plaintiff
as disabled. This argument is not well taken.
 
The
allegations show that at the outset Plaintiff informed Defendant that she
suffered from “ recurrent
sinusitis which caused plaintiff to experience painful symptoms including
significant sinus pain and headaches, swelling in her nasal cavity due to
congestion, and frequent sinus infections.” (FAC ¶ 3.)  Further, she indicated that she had to have
“sinus surgery” and would “need to t take at least a couple of weeks off of
work to recover following the surgery.” (FAC ¶ 3; see also FAC ¶ 5
[demonstrating Defendant understood the nature of the surgery and that it was
tied to her alleged disability].) Finally, the FAC alleges that Defendant was regularly
informed of Plaintiff’s “deteriorating health condition, including continually
reminding defendants of her upcoming surgery.” (FAC ¶ 7.) These allegations are
sufficient to show that Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s alleged disability.
 
Lastly, Defendant demurs to these
causes of action on the grounds that the FAC fails to allege Plaintiff was
terminated “because of” her purported disability. This argument is based on
Defendant’s contention that the FAC does not sufficiently allege Defendant had
knowledge of Plaintiff’s alleged disability. (Dem., 9:18-10:1 [citing Featherstone
v. S. California Permanente Med. Grp., supra, 10 Cal. App. 5th at 1167 [“Put
simply, unless there is some evidence an employer knows an employee is
suffering from a disability, it is impossible for an employee to claim he or
she was discharged because of it . . . .”].].) 
Based on the Court’s determination above, this argument also fails. 
 
            The
demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Retaliation:
 
            Defendant
also demurs to the fourth cause of action for retaliation on the grounds that
Plaintiff has failed to allege any protected activity to state a claim. 
 
The
retaliation provision of FEHA forbids an employer “to discharge, expel, or
otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has opposed any
practices forbidden under” FEHA. (Gov. Code., § 12940, subd. (h).) That is, the
person has engaged in protected activity. California courts have generally held
that in order to qualify as a “protected activity” an employee’s conduct must
“demonstrate some degree of opposition to or protest of the employer's conduct
or practice based on the employee's reasonable belief
that the employer's action or practice is unlawful.” (Moore v. Regents
of the Univ. of California (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 216, 246.) Moreover, a
prima facie showing requires the employee to show the adverse action about
which he complains happened after or simultaneously with his protected
activity. (Morgan v. Regents of University of California (2000) 88
Cal.App.4th 52, 69.)
 
            Here, FAC alleges Defendant retaliated
against Plaintiff by terminating her employment. (FAC ¶ 63.) The retaliation
was in response to Plaintiff “reject[ing] illegal activity, i.e.,
discrimination and harassment.” (FAC ¶ 62.) Plaintiff also alleges she “requested
and was granted a medical leave of absence.” (FAC ¶ 62.) Based on the legal
authority above, these allegations do not constitute protected activity under
FEHA. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges no facts showing any communication by
Plaintiff of her “reasonable belief that the employer's action or
practice is unlawful” prior to her termination. As such, Plaintiff has not
alleged that she engaged in any protected activity under FEHA.
 
            The
demurrer to this cause of action is sustained.
 
Sixth Cause of action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: 
 
            Finally, Defendant
demurs to the sixth cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to
allege extreme and outrageous conduct or that she suffered from extreme
emotional distress. 
 
            The elements
of the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: “ ‘ “ ‘(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct....’ ” ' ” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1001.)
 
            In opposing
the demurrer, Plaintiff points to her allegations that she was told by
Defendant that her surgery was “an inconvenience” to Defendant and was told in
a very loud and aggressive tone, that it was “not an ideal time” for Plaintiff
to be out for her surgery. (FAC ¶ 8.) Further, within one day of returning to
work from medical leave, Plaintiff was terminated. (FAC ¶ 11.) As result, the
FAC alleges that “Plaintiff suffered and continues to suffer embarrassment,
humiliation, emotional distress, mental anguish and severe shock to her nervous
system, and thereby sustained serious injuries to her physical and mental
health. . .” (FAC ¶ 33.) 
 
            The demurrer
is well taken; Plaintiff’s allegations do not demonstrate conduct “so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”
 
            “ ‘ “Conduct
to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” ’ ” (Potter,
supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 1001.) “ ‘Generally, conduct will be found to be
actionable where the recitation of the facts to an average member of the
community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to
exclaim, “Outrageous!” [Citations.]’ ” (Helgeson v. American International
Group, Inc. (S.D.Cal.1999) 44 F.Supp.2d 1091, 1095; KOVR TV, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1028.) “[L]iability ‘ “does not
extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or
other trivialities,” but only to conduct so extreme and outrageous “as to go
beyond all possible bonds of decency....” ’ [Citation.]” (Ankeny v. Lockheed
Missiles & Space Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531, 537.)
 
            The
statement made to Plaintiff were – at worst – unprofessional and ill advised,
but not outrageous. Further, in the employment context, such routine decisions
as hiring and firing do not constitute extreme and outrageous conduct as a
matter of law. (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th
55, 64; Schneider v. TRW, Inc. (9th Cir.1991) 938 F.2d 986, 992; Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883–884; Ankeny
v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co., supra, 88 Cal.App.3d at pp. 536–537.)
 
            In
Janken, employees of a large aircraft company sued their supervisors for
age discrimination and for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Plaintiffs alleged these supervisors made personnel management decisions
pursuant to the company's policy of discriminating against employees over the
age of 40 by terminating them or forcing them to resign without good cause. The
Janken court affirmed trial court rulings sustaining demurrers to both
causes of action. With respect to the emotional distress claim, the Janken
court found that plaintiffs failed to plead facts to satisfy the outrageous
conduct requirement. The court reasoned: “Managing personnel is not outrageous
conduct beyond the bounds of human decency, but rather conduct essential to the
welfare and prosperity of society. A simple pleading of personnel management
activity is insufficient to support a claim of intentional infliction of
emotional distress, even if improper motivation is alleged. If personnel
management decisions are improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the
employer for discrimination.” (Janken, supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at p. 64.)
 
            Thus, the
demurrer to this cause of action is sustained.
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer
is sustained as to the fourth and sixth cause of action and overruled as to the
first, second, third, and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff shall not have
leave to amend. 