 Case Number:  24STCV20333    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30
Calendar
No.
Muhammad, et. al. vs. Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC, et. al., Case
No. 24STCV20333
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
Jaguar Land Rover
North America, LLC (Defendant) demurs
to Loreal Muhammad et al.’s (Plaintiffs) fifth cause of action for violation of
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act contained in its first amended complaint (FAC).
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
Defendant is ordered to answer within ten (10) days of today’s date.
 
A demurrer is
sustained where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer tests the
legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Yalung v. State
(2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 71, 80.) In reviewing a complaint’s legal sufficiency, a
court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. (Esparza v. Kaweah
Delta Dist. Hospital (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 547, 552.) It is well settled
that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart Tit. Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) Causes of action under the CLRA must be stated
with reasonable particularity, a more lenient pleading standard than that
applied to common law fraud claims. (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores
California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1261.)
When ruling
on a demurrer, a court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or matters
which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations pleaded or the difficulty
a plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equipment Corporation v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881.) A demurrer is properly sustained when the complaint, liberally construed,
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 574, 578.) Demurrer is also appropriate where the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(f).)
 
Defendant demurs to
Plaintiffs’ cause of action under the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) on the
basis that Plaintiffs fail to plead facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
 
The CLRA bans certain
deceptive practices intended to result, or resulting in, the sale or lease of
goods and services to a consumer. (Civ. Code, § 1770, subd. (a).) One such
deceptive practice involves “[r]epresenting that goods or services have
sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, or
quantities that they do not have or that a person has a sponsorship, approval,
status, affiliation, or connection that the person does not have.” (Id.
§ 1770, subd. (a)(5).) The CLRA also prohibits “representing that goods or
services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of
a particular style or model, if they are of another.” (Id. § 1770, subd.
(a)(7).) Another prohibited practice involves “[r]epresenting that a
transaction confers or involves rights, remedies, or obligations that it does
not have or involve, or that are prohibited by law.” (Id. § 1770, subd.
(a)(14).)
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs have not pled sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action under
Civil Code section 1770 because they have not established causation. “A causal
link between the deceptive practice and damage to the plaintiff is a necessary
element of a CLRA cause of action.” (Torres v. Adventist Health System/West
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 500, 514.) Here, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant gave
warranties that Plaintiffs’ vehicle would be free from all defects, would pass
without objection under the contract description, would be fit for ordinary
use, and that it would provide safe and reliable transportation. (FAC ¶ 7.)
Plaintiffs further allege that they have presented the vehicle for repair
numerous times because of various defects. (Id. ¶ 10.) Each time they
did so, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant represented it would conform the
vehicle to the applicable warranties. (Id. ¶ 12.) However, the vehicle
continues to suffer from various defects. (Id. ¶ 39.) Thus, Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant falsely represented that the vehicle was of a particular
standard, quality, or grade that it was not. (Id. ¶ 61.) These
allegations constitute a causal link between the false representations by
Defendant in the form of warranties and the damages incurred by Plaintiffs
through their various unsuccessful repair attempts. 
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs do not allege causation because there are no facts in the FAC which
allege that the warranty induced Plaintiffs to buy the vehicle. The scope of
the CLRA is not so narrow. Deceptive practices need not directly result in the
sale or lease of goods but are actionable even if only “intended to result” in
the sale of goods. (Civ. Code, § 1770, subd. (a).) Thus, Defendant could be
found liable under the CLRA even if Plaintiffs do not present evidence that the
warranty representations were the direct cause of their purchase. Defendant’s
separate contention that Plaintiffs allege active concealment misconstrues
Plaintiffs’ complaint. Rather, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s warranty
constituted a misrepresentation based on its subsequent failure to remedy
defects with Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs must identify specific advertising which led to them purchasing the
subject vehicle. Indeed, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants falsely represented
that the Vehicle was of a particular standard, quality, or grade and could not
conform to the quality of the vehicles it was advertising which is in direct
violation of the CLRA.” (FAC ¶ 61.) Advertised statements include “any
statement, representation, act or announcement intentionally communicated to
any member of the public by any means whatever, whether orally, in writing or
otherwise.” (Ford Dealers the Assn. v. Department of Motor Vehicles
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 347, 356 (Ford Dealers).) Here, Plaintiffs’ allegations
concern representations made by Defendant through its written warranty, a form
of advertising under Ford Dealers. Thus, Defendant’s argument that
Plaintiffs have failed to properly identify advertising is inapposite.
 
Finally, Defendant
argues that fraud allegations against a corporate defendant made pursuant to
the CLRA require specific allegations about the names of persons who made
representations and their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation,
citing West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780,
793. However, that case did not concern the CLRA, but rather common law fraud. Thus,
Defendant’s argument fails. 