  Case Number:  23PSCP00427    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  G Petitioner Swift Financial, LLC’s Petition to Confirm
Contractual Arbitration Award
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner Swift Financial, LLC’s Petition to Confirm
Contractual Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This is an action to confirm
an arbitration award. In June 2022, WebBank entered into a written business
loan agreement with Respondent Walden Speed Shop, Inc. (Walden Speed Shop) in
which WebBank agreed to loan $110,000 to Walden Speed Shop. In support of the
loan agreement, Respondent Bobby Walden executed a personal guaranty. In
paragraph 28 of the loan agreement, the parties agreed to resolve any claims
through binding arbitration. On June 1, 2023, Petitioner Swift Financial, LLC
(Swift), as servicing agent for WebBank, obtained an arbitration award for
breach of the loan agreement in the amount of $105,884.82 against Walden and
Walden Speed Shop after they failed to appear for the arbitration hearing.
On September 28, 2023, Swift
filed a petition to confirm the arbitration award against Walden and Walden
Speed Shop. On October 17, Swift’s process server served Walden Speed Shop with
substitute service in Pomona. On October 25, Swift’s process server served
Walden with substitute service at the same location.
On October 16, 2023, Swift
filed the present motion for the granting of Swift’s petition. A hearing on the
petition is set for December 14 with a case management conference and OSC Re:
Failure to File Proof of Service on March 3, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Swift
moves for confirmation of their arbitration award against Walden and Walden
Speed Shop. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Swift’s petition.
Legal Standard
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) Such a
petition must “(a) [s]et forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement[;] (b) [s]et forth the names of the arbitrators[; and] (c) [s]et
forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) The petition must also “name
as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any
other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)
After
being served with the petition, respondents have ten days to serve and file a
response or thirty days if the petition was served outside California via mail
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4, subdivision (b)(2). (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly
served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered
in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter it
corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses
the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
“The
scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow. Courts may
not review the merits of the controversy, the sufficiency of the evidence
supporting the award, or the validity of the arbitrator’s reasoning.” (Department
of Personnel Administration v. California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1200.) “[W]ith limited exceptions, ‘an
arbitrator’s decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or law,
whether or not such error appears on the face of the award and causes
substantial injustice to the parties.’” (Ibid, quoting Moncharsh v.
Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 6.)
Discussion
In
this case, the court finds Swift has satisfied the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1285.4 by providing a copy of the business loan
agreement containing the arbitration provision, setting forth the name of the
arbitrator as George J. Krueger of the American Arbitration Association, and providing
a copy of the arbitration award. The court also finds Swift has adequately
served Walden Speed Shop and Walden with substitute service on October 17,
2023, and October 25. The court does note that there appears to be a defect
with Swift’s proofs of service in that Swift’s process server stated Walden and
Walden Speed Shop were served at “home” when it appears they were served at
their place of business.
The
proofs of service state they were served at 1040 Price Avenue, Pomona, CA 91767.
But in the original business loan agreement, the court notes the same address
is listed as the billing address for Walden Speed Shop and that Walden’s home
address is listed as a different address in Ontario. Furthermore, the proofs of
service describe the John Doe who was served as an “employee” and the
supporting declaration of diligence refers to the 1040 Price Avenue location as
a business. Last, the court takes judicial notice of the fact that this property
is classified as “industrial” by the Los Angeles County Assessor. (See Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (c).)
Notwithstanding
these defects, the court finds there is sufficient evidence Walden Speed Shop
and Walden were properly served at their place of business with notice of the
present petition as Swift’s process server twice attempted service the Pomona
location before effecting substitute service on the unnamed employee. Walden
Speed Shop and Walden have failed to file a timely response or opposition by
the deadline set in Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.6. Accordingly, the
court GRANTS Swift’s petition.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Swift’s
petition to confirm arbitration award is GRANTED.
