 Case Number:  23PSCV02835    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association’s Application  for Writ of Possession against Defendant Koky, Inc. Respondent: NO OPPOSITION Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association’s Application  for Writ of Possession against Defendant Jorge Chavez Avalos Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association’s Application  for Writ of Possession against Defendant Koky, Inc. is DENIED without  prejudice. Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association’s Application  for Writ of Possession against Defendant Jorge Chavez Avalos is DENIED without  prejudice. BACKGROUND This  is a breach of contract action arising from an equipment finance agreement. In  February 2023, Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association (U.S. Bank) entered  into a written equipment finance agreement with Defendant Koky, Inc. (Koky) in  which U.S. Bank agreed to provide financing for Koky’s purchase of two  semi-trucks. In support of the agreement, Defendant Jorge Chavez Avalos  executed a personal guaranty. Starting in May 2023, U.S. Bank alleges Koky and  Chavez Avalos breached the agreement by failing to make the required monthly  payments. On September  14, 2023, U.S. Bank filed a complaint against Koky, Chavez Avalos, and Does  1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of written  agreement, (2) breach of personal guaranty, (3) account stated, (4) indebtedness,  (5) unjust enrichment, (6) claim and delivery, and (7) conversion. On September  20, 2023, U.S. Bank filed the present applications. A hearing on the  applications is set for December 14 with a case management conference and OSC  Re: Failure to File Proof of Service on February 14, 2024. ANALYSIS U.S.  Bank applies to the court for writs of possession against Koky and Chavez  Avalos with regards to a 2018 Freightliner and 2016 Peterbilt. For the  following reasons, the court DENIES U.S. Bank’s applications. Legal  Standard “California’s  claim and delivery law (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 511.010-516.050) authorizes the  issuance of a prejudgment writ of possession for specific personal property.” (Sea  Rail Truckloads, Inc. v. Pullman, Inc. (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 511, 514.)  “Except as otherwise provided this section, no writ shall be issued under this  chapter except after a hearing on a noticed motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  512.020, subd. (a).) Prior to the hearing, applicant must serve respondent with  (1) a copy of the summons and complaint, (2) a notice of application and  hearing, and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support  thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.030, subd. (a).) The  application for writ of possession must be executed under oath and include (1)  a “showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is  entitled to possession of the property claimed” as well as a copy of the  written instrument if the basis of the claim is a written instrument, (2) a  “showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant,” (3) a  showing of “the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the  property,” (4) a showing of “the reason for the detention,” (5) a particular  description of the property and its value, (6) a statement of the location of  the property, including a showing that there is probable cause to believe the  property is located there if alleged to be within a private place, and (7) a “statement  that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine” or “seized  under an execution against the property of the plaintiff[.]” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 512.010, subd. (b).) Furthermore,  Code of Civil Procedure section 512.060 provides that a writ of possession  shall issue if the plaintiff meets the undertaking requirements of Code of  Civil Procedure section 515.010 and establishes the probable validity of their  claim to possession of the property. Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010  requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking of at least “twice the value of  the defendant’s interest in the property” with the court before the court  issues any writ of possession, unless the court finds defendants have “no  interest in the property.” “No writ directing the levying officer to enter a  private place to take possession of any property shall be issued unless the  plaintiff has established that there is probable cause to believe that the  property is located there.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.060, subd. (b).) Discussion U.S.  Bank applies for writs of possession against Koky and Chavez Avalos with  regards to a 2018 Freightliner (VIN: 3AKJGLDR0JSHM6118)  and a 2016 Peterbilt (VIN: 1XPBD49X1GD253494). But proof  of service is required for the instant writs of possession pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 512.030, subdivision (a). While U.S. Bank filed proofs of  service on October 30, 2023, for the summons, complaint, and other notices in  this action, U.S. Bank failed to file a proof of service for the present  applications, hearing notices, and supporting affidavits. Accordingly, U.S.  Bank’s applications are DENIED without prejudice. CONCLUSION Based  on the foregoing, the court DENIES U.S. Bank’s applications for writs  for possession without prejudice. The  court will hear from counsel for moving party on the time needed to effectuate  service of the instant writs of possession against Koky and Chavez Avalos.