  Case Number:  20STCV40739    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  30 RODOLFO ZARATE BLANCO vs KIRSTIE LEE WALKER, et al.TENTATIVEDefendants’ motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for deposition within 30 days of this order. Both parties’ request for sanctions is DENIED. Moving party to give notice.Legal StandardAny party may obtain discovery … by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)Where a party objects to the deposition, the proper remedy is an objection under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410. If such an objection is made within three calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party must make personal service of that objection. (Code Civ. Proc. 2025.410, subd. (b).)CCP section¿2025.450(a) provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)CCP section¿2025.450(b) provides:¿“A motion under subdivision (a)… shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿ (Id., § 2025.450(b).)DiscussionOn October 6, 2023, Defendant served a notice of taking Plaintiff’s deposition for December 7, 2023. (Yoshioka Decl., ¶ 9; Exh. M.) Plaintiff never served any objections to this deposition notice. (Id., ¶ 9.) On December 7, 2023, defense counsel appeared with a Court Reporter. Plaintiff and his counsel did not appear for his noticed deposition. Defense counsel took a Certificate of Non-Appearance. (Id., ¶ 10; Exh. N.) Defense counsel sent e-mail meet and confer on the same day to Plaintiff’s counsel due to Plaintiff’s failure to appear for deposition. (Id., ¶ 11; Exh. O.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded, stating, “plf has informed the court of defs’ tactics, including unreasonably claiming unavailability & disregarding model civility rules, & will await a ruling on feb 29 before setting the depos of the parties[.]” (Id., Exh. P.)Plaintiff previously failed to appear for deposition, when Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition back on April 12, 2023, for May 17, 2023. (Shikai Decl., ¶ 18; Exh. Q.) In response to this deposition notice, on May 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed defense counsel, stating that Defendants’ deposition notice “violates LASC civility rules requiring defendant to yield to plaintiff because plaintiff noticed the depo of [Defendant] Walker first[.]” He did not cite to or quote any specific “civility rules.” He further stated that Plaintiff would not appear for deposition until [Defendant] Walker’s deposition was completed.” (Id., ¶ 19; Exh. R.) On May 17, 2023, defense counsel took a Certificate of Non-Appearance. (Id., ¶ 20; Exh. S.)In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to reasonably set Defendant’s deposition since April of 2023. Plaintiff argues that he moved to compel Defendant’s deposition, and the hearing is set for February 29, 2024. Plaintiff argues (without citing to any authority) that under notions of state and federal due process, Defendant’s motion cannot be heard before being consolidated with Plaintiff’s February 29, 2024 motion, which if granted, would deny all relief to Defendant. Next, Plaintiff argues he invoked the “deposition priority rule” under Los Angeles County Superior Court Rule 3.26, to bar Defendants from taking his deposition, and Defendant waived the right to contest that rule by failing to argue it in the motion for a protective order.To start, as noted above, Plaintiff fails to cite to any authority that his due process rights would be violated if Defendant’s motion is heard first. The proper procedure would have been to incorporate the arguments from Plaintiff’s motion in the opposition. Plaintiff has failed to do so. Plaintiff could have also moved ex parte to advance his hearing date, but again has failed to do so. Lastly, Plaintiff could have checked for open reservation slots in order to obtain a hearing date sooner. In any event, Plaintiff fails to explain why granting his motion would require denying his. It appears both parties are unreasonably refusing to appear for deposition.Next, Defendant is not contesting any “priority rule” here. Rather, Defendant is moving to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. Moreover, the only proper way a party may object to a deposition is under Civil Procedure section 2025.410, which Plaintiff has failed to do. Objections to a notice of the deposition are very limited and may only pertain to errors or irregularities in the deposition notice itself. (CCP § 2025.410, [“Any party served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.].) Article 2 which consists of Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.210-2025.295 provide specific requirements that a deposition notice must satisfy. However, even if Plaintiff did object on this ground, and assuming without deciding that Local Rule 3.26 provides for a “priority rule,” Local Rule 3.26 is not a basis for an objection to the notice as all local rules are preempted as to discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.20(a).)As such, because Defendant has properly served a notice of taking Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff failed to properly object, and failed to appear, the motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for deposition within 30 days of this order.SanctionsCode of Civil Procedure Section 2025.450(g)(1) states: If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).)Defendant moves for sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel only and not Plaintiff. Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.450(g)(1) says nothing about imposing sanctions against the attorney. Thus, sanctions against counsel under this section are not authorized and the request is denied.Defendant’s request for sanctions under CCP section 2023.010 for the misuse of discovery is also denied, as "sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.)Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant as well. However, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 states, “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.” Plaintiff has not sought sanctions in the notice of opposition. Thus, his request is denied.