  Case Number:  21SRCV13920    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



RANDALL L. BORT, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KBS HOLDCO, LLC, a California limited liability company; BRIAN
  KENNEDY, an individual, and DOES 1-50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
  
______________________________________
KBS HOLDCO, LLC, a California limited liability company; BRIAN
  KENNEDY, an individual,
                        Cross-Complainants,
            v.
RANDALL L. BORT, an individual; and ROES 1-10, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV13920
 Hearing Date:   9/29/23
 Trial Date:        11/7/23
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff/Cross
  Defendant Randall L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most
  Qualified to Testify on Behalf of Defendant KBS Holdco, LLC on Alter Ego
  Issues and Production of Documents;
Plaintiff/Cross
  Defendant Randall L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
  Interrogatories, Set Two;
Plaintiff/Cross
  Defendant Randall L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
  Interrogatories, Set Three; and
Plaintiff/Cross
  Defendant Randall L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
  for Admission, Set Three.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Randall
L. Bort (hereafter, Plaintiff Bort) sues Defendants/Cross-Complainants KBS
Holdco, LLC (KBS), Brian Kennedy (KBS’s owner), and Does 1-50 pursuant to claims
of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Promissory Estoppel, (3) Quantum Meruit, and (4)
Account Stated.
The claims arise from allegations
that KBS and Kennedy (hereafter, Defendants) entered into a written Agreement
with Plaintiff Bort to employ his professional services to perform various
tasks—including obtaining financing—for Defendants’ intended purchase of the
remainder of a company named Regency Outdoor Advertising (Regency), with
Plaintiff Bort to be paid a Retainer Fee of $50,000 or relevant Success Fee of
$1,470,000 if the Regency Project was structured as an asset purchase.
Plaintiff Bort alleges that his efforts helped the Defendants successfully
purchase Regency on February 2, 2021 but that the Defendants breached the
Agreement by only paying Plaintiff Bort a $10,000 downpayment and no other monies,
causing Bort damages of $1,460,000.
In turn, Defendants KBS and Kennedy
sue Plaintiff Bort and Roes 1-10 pursuant to a June 30, 2021 Cross-Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Rescission, (3) Unfair
Competition, and (4) Declaratory Relief.
The claims in the cross-complaint arise
from allegations that, among other things, Defendant Kennedy acquired Regency
through use of his own funds and that Plaintiff Bort breached the Agreement by
failing to secure the financing contemplated by the parties’ contract, for
which reason a rescission of the Agreement is merited and Plaintiff Bort is not
entitled to the $1,460,000 sought in the Complaint.
Motion Before the Court
Between August 14 and 16, 2023,
Plaintiff Bort made motions to (1) compel the deposition and production of
documents from KBS’s person most qualified (PMQ) relating to alter ego issues,
(2) compel further responses from KBS relating to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories (SROGs), Set Two, Nos. 31-38, (3) compel further responses from
KBS relating to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (FROGs), Set Three, No. 17.1,
and (4) compel further responses from KBS relating to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Admission (RFAs), Set Three, Nos. 9-19.
On August 21, 2023, pursuant to an
ex parte application by Plaintiff Bort, the Court consolidated the hearings on
these four motions to September 29, 2023.
On September 15, 2023, Defendants KBS
and Kennedy opposed Plaintiff’s four motions.
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff
replied to Defendants’ oppositions.
Plaintiff Bort’s motions are now
before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court DECLINES to take judicial
notice of the motion to compel the deposition and production of documents from
KBS’s PMQ because such notice is not necessary here. The motions to compel
further discovery filed by Plaintiff Bort stand on their own and need not rely
on notice of the PMQ motion. (See SROGs, FROGs, RFAs Motions (Mots.), RJN; see
also Evid. Code, §§ 452, subds. (d), 453.)
 
Motion
to Compel PMQ Deposition and Production
Legal
Standard
If,
[1] after service of a deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, [5] the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)
If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The
motion shall also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b)(2).)
If
the proposed deponent made some response to the deposition notice, then a
separate statement must accompany any motion to compel deposition attendance or
production. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (b).)
Order
Compelling Deposition(s): GRANTED, in Part; DENIED, in Part.
Plaintiff
Bort moves to compel the deposition of and production of documents from KBS’s
PMQ relating to alter ego issues. The deposition notice includes 20 categories
of examination and 17 requests for production of documents. (See PMQ Mot., Kneafsey
Decl., Ex. 1.)
I. Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230
Though
not raised in the parties’ papers, the Court finds that the deposition notice describes
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.
Indeed, the categories of examination and production requests are clear as to
their plain language meaning and the timeframe applicable to the requests
(where applicable). Accordingly, Plaintiff Bort meets the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.230.
II. Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a)
The
PMQ deposition notice was served on KBS on June 26, 2023. (PMQ Mot., Kneafsey
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1, Proof of Service.) The deposition relates to a person to be
designated by KBS to provide information and documents relating to alter ego
issues. (PMQ Mot., Kneafsey Decl., Ex. 1.) KBS did not produce a PMQ for
deposition. (PMQ Mot., Kneafsey Decl., ¶¶ 1-14, Exs. 1-2, 9-15.) KBS instead
opposed the PMQ deposition. (PMQ Mot., Kneafsey Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) Thus, to
have standing to compel the deposition of KBS’s PMQ on alter ego issues,
Plaintiff Bort needs to show that no valid objection was served in response to
the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
A. Categories and Production Requests Beyond
the Scope of Discovery
After
review, the Court determines that categories of examination Nos. 8, 18, and 20,
and production requests Nos. 8 and 14 are not within the proper scope of
discovery.
The
Court does not find any reason to admit pattern and practice evidence cited by
Plaintiff Bort (category and production request No. 8). Such evidence is not
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence of alter ego liability
against Defendant Kennedy. It may be relevant to establish a practice and
pattern by KBS and/or Kennedy in failing to pay persons with whom they
contract. However, such character evidence is not relevant to alter ego liability.
Moreover,
discovery related to KBS’s vendors and contracts (categories of examination
Nos. 18 and 20, and production requests No. 14), while to some degree relevant,
is oppressive and overbroad. The Court finds that sufficient discovery is being
permitted as to alter ego liability, as discussed below in relation to KBS’s
financial and other records. Identification and production related to KBS’s
vendors and contracts is thus not necessary or proper here.
B. Categories and Production Requests Within
the Scope of Discovery
As
to the remaining categories of examination and production requests—categories
of examination Nos. 1-7, 9-17, and 19, and production request Nos. 1-7, 9-13,
and 15-17—the Court determines that they are discoverable.
First,
these requests are not vague and are within the proper scope of discovery because
they involve discovery that is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence regarding alter ego liability against Defendant Kennedy.
To
the extent that Defendants object to the categories of examination and
production requests based on the attorney client privilege, the work product
doctrine, or any other claim, privilege, or doctrine that would operate to
shield responsive information from disclosure, the Court finds such objections
unconvincing. For example, it is unclear and insufficiently explained by
Defendants how identification of KBS’s office locations between September 2019
and the present, identification of KBS’s insurance policies, or KBS’s meeting
minutes involve the attorney-client or work product privileges. No privilege
log is before the Court. No other specific privileges were identified by Defendants
in their June 29, 2023 objections. Moreover, the parties are subject to an
October 28, 2021 protective order, which should allay concerns of disclosure of
confidential, privileged, or other such information.
The
Court thus finds that such objections lack merit.
The
Court finds more merit in Defendants’ argument that there are privacy rights at
issue in KBS’s financial and other information. A person has a right to prevent
disclosure of information about personal finances, including information about
bank accounts, assets, and debts. (See In re Ins. Installment Fee Cases
(2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1428 [information privacy in personal financial
affairs]; Ameri-Med Corp. v. Worker’s Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1260, 1286-1287 [limited informational privacy in corporation’s
financial information unrelated to the claims asserted].) However, even if the
right to privacy held by KBS were fundamental to its ‘personal’ autonomy, and
even if KBS’s right to privacy was not diminished by its nature (entity, not a
person), there is a compelling need here for disclosure of this private
information: evidence relevant to a determination of alter ego liability
against Defendant Kennedy. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552 [If the case involves an obvious invasion of a privacy interest that
is fundamental to the holder’s personal autonomy, a compelling interest or need
must be present to overcome the privacy interest].)
Insofar
as the categories of examination and production requests involve the period of
2019 to the present, the Court finds that such time frame is not overbroad. Defendants’
Cross-Complaint alleges that Plaintiff Bort was hired by Defendants in or
around September 2019. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 10.) It thus makes sense for
Plaintiff to seek discovery relating to alter ego liability that spans 2019 to
the present.
To
the extent that Defendants object to the alter ego discovery based on burden,
the Court notes that the June 29, 2023 objections insufficiently elaborate on
the reasons for undue burden on KBS.
These
determinations undercut objections based on ambiguity, harassment, particularity,
assumption of facts not established, and speculation, et al.
Plaintiff
Bort thus has standing to compel the deposition of and production of documents
from KBS’s PMQ.
C. Opposition Arguments
In
their opposition, Defendants make three general arguments against granting of
this motion: (1) overbreadth, undue burden, and scope of discovery disfavoring
the requested discovery; (2) alter ego discovery being premature where such
discovery could be effected after Plaintiff in fact secures a judgment in his
favor in this action; and (3) Plaintiff’s inability to defeat KBS’s right to
privacy. (PMQ Opp’n, pp. 6-10.)
Based
on the foregoing discussion in Section II.B. above, the Court finds that the
overbreadth, undue burden, and scope of discovery argument and the right to
privacy argument raised by Defendants are unavailing as to categories of
examination Nos. 1-7, 9-17, and 19, and production request Nos. 1-7, 9-13, and
15-17.
Moreover,
the Court finds Defendants’ argument that alter ego discovery is premature
unavailing. Short of a stipulation or court order bifurcating discovery, alter
ego discovery is available before trial based on the broad scope of discovery.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Defendants do not cite any statutory or other
authority to the contrary. In fact one of the very cases cited by Defendants to
support their argument actually noted: “information as to the financial
condition of a corporate defendant is admissible and discoverable before trial
in an action involving an alter ego issue.” (Doak v. Superior Court for Los
Angeles County (1968) 825, 835 fn. 8.) Moreover, policy considerations favor
a pre-trial alter ego determination. Discovery as to alter ego liability only
after a finding of alter ego at trial would be time consuming, potentially
duplicative and expensive. Moreover, the results of the alter ego discovery may
very well inform the rest of the parties’ discovery and preparation for trial.
III. Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(1)
The
Court adopts its discussion in Section II.B. above to determine that Plaintiff
Bort shows good cause in support of production requests Nos. 1-7, 9-13, and
15-17, thus satisfying Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision
(b)(1).
IV. Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2)
The
Court notes that, after Defendants refused to present a PMQ for deposition and
production of documents pursuant to their June 29, 2023 objections, Plaintiff contacted
Defendants to inquire about the nonappearance and possible future deposition
and production from KBS’s PMQ. (Mot., Kneafsey Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, 11, Exs. 1-2,
9-15.)
V. Separate Statement
The
Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345, subdivision (b), because, in response to Defendants’ objections to a
deposition of and production from KBS’s PMQ, Plaintiff has attached a separate
statement to his motion.
VI. Deposition Conclusion
Plaintiff
Bort’s motion is GRANTED as to compelling (1) a deposition of a PMQ to be
designated by KBS in relation to categories of examination Nos. 1-7, 9-17, and 19,
and (2) production of documents from KBS’s PMQ relating to production request
Nos. 1-7, 9-13, and 15-17.
Plaintiff
Bort’s motion is DENIED as to compelling (1) a deposition of a PMQ to be
designated by KBS in relation to categories of examination Nos. 8, 18, and 20
and (2) production of documents from KBS’s PMQ relating to production request
Nos. 8 and 14.
 
Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses
Legal
Standard
A
motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory
answers or makes untenable objections to interrogatories, demands to produce,
or requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a),
2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403 (Sinaiko)
[interrogatories and demands to produce].)
To
compel a further response to interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the
responding party’s answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(1)); (2) the responding
party’s exercise of the option to produce documents in response to an
interrogatory was unwarranted or the required specification of those documents
was inadequate (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(2)); and (3) the
responding party’s objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(3); see, e.g., Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550 (Williams) [defendant’s
argument that plaintiff was required to establish good cause or prove merits of
underlying claim before propounding interrogatories without merit]).
To
compel a further response to requests for admission, the movant must establish
that (1) the response to an RFA is evasive or incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a)(1)) or (2) the objection to an RFA is without merit or too
general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a)(2)).
Order
Compelling Further Discovery Responses: GRANTED, in Part; DENIED, in
Part.
Plaintiff
Bort moves to compel further responses from KBS relating to (1) Plaintiff’s
SROGs, Set Two, Nos. 31-38, (2) Plaintiff’s FROGs, Set Three, No. 17.1, and (3)
Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set Three, Nos. 9-19. (See SROGs Mot., Kneafsey Decl., Ex. 1;
FROGs Mot., Kneafsey Decl., Ex. 1; RFAs Mot., Kneafsey Decl., Ex. 1.)
KBS
provided only objections to these discovery requests. (See SROGs Mot., Kneafsey
Decl., Ex. 2; FROGs Mot., Kneafsey Decl., Ex. 2; RFAs Mot., Kneafsey Decl., Ex.
2.)
The
Court notes that the parties’ papers in relation to compelling further
discovery mirror the PMQ papers for the obvious reason that the sought-after
discovery all relates to alter ego liability. (Compare PMQ Opp’n, pp. 6-10,
with SROGs Opp’n, pp. 4-8, FROGs Opp’n, pp. 4-8, RFAs Opp’n, pp. 4-8 [Defendants
making identical arguments in favor of denying discovery into alter ego
liability against Defendant Kennedy through PMQ deposition and further
interrogatory and admission responses from KBS].)
As
such, the Court adopts its above reasoning to rule as follows:
(1)
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, Set Two, is GRANTED as
to SROGs, Set Two, Nos. 31-37 (see PMQ discussion supra at Section II.B.);
(2)
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, Set Two, is DENIED as
to SROGs, Set Two, No. 38 (see PMQ discussion supra at Section II.A. re:
pattern and practice);

(3) Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to FROGs, Set Three, is GRANTED as to FROGs,
Set Three, No. 17.1 (see PMQ discussion supra at Section II.B.); and
(4)
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFAs, Set Three, is GRANTED
as to RFAs, Set Three, Nos. 9-19 (see PMQ discussion supra at Section II.B.).
 

Conclusion
I.
Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Randall
L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most Qualified to Testify on
Behalf of Defendant KBS Holdco, LLC on Alter Ego Issues and Production of
Documents is GRANTED, in Part, and DENIED, in Part, as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to compelling (a) a
deposition of a PMQ to be designated by KBS in relation to categories of
examination Nos. 1-7, 9-17, and 19, and (b) production of documents from KBS’s
PMQ relating to production request Nos. 1-7, 9-13, and 15-17; and
(2) DENIED as to compelling (a) a
deposition of a PMQ to be designated by KBS in relation to categories of
examination Nos. 8, 18, and 20 and (b) production of documents from KBS’s PMQ
relating to production request Nos. 8 and 14.
Production SHALL be made at the
time of deposition.
Moreover, production SHALL be made
pursuant to the protections specified in the parties’ October 28, 2021
protective order.
If Defendant/Cross-Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC raises any privilege against discovery, it SHALL provide a
privilege log complying with Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285.
II.
Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Randall
L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
Two is GRANTED, in Part, and DENIED, in Part, as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to SROGs, Set Two,
Nos. 31-37; and
(2) DENIED as to SROGs, Set Two,
No. 38.
Defendant/Cross Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC is ORDERED to serve Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Randall L. Bort with further
responses to SROGs, Set Two, Nos. 31-37, within 10 days of this ruling, i.e.,
by Monday, October 9, 2023.
Further responses SHALL be made
pursuant to the protections specified in the parties’ October 28, 2021
protective order.
If Defendant/Cross-Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC raises any privilege against discovery, it SHALL provide a
privilege log complying with Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285.
III.
Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Randall
L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Three
is GRANTED as to compelling further responses to FROGs, Set Three, No. 17.1.
Defendant/Cross Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC is ORDERED to serve Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Randall L. Bort with
further responses to FROGs, Set Three, No. 17.1, within 10 days of this ruling,
i.e., by Monday, October 9, 2023.
Further responses SHALL be made
pursuant to the protections specified in the parties’ October 28, 2021
protective order.
If Defendant/Cross-Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC raises any privilege against discovery, it SHALL provide a
privilege log complying with Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285.
IV.
Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Randall
L. Bort’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission, Set
Three is GRANTED as to compelling further responses to RFAs, Set Three, Nos.
9-19.
Defendant/Cross Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC is ORDERED to serve Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Randall L. Bort with
further responses to RFAs, Set Three, Nos. 9-19, within 10 days of this ruling,
i.e., by Monday, October 9, 2023.
Further responses SHALL be made
pursuant to the protections specified in the parties’ October 28, 2021
protective order.
If Defendant/Cross-Complainant KBS
Holdco, LLC raises any privilege against discovery, it SHALL provide a
privilege log complying with Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285.
Plaintiff/Cross Defendant Randall
L. Bort and Defendant/Cross-Complainant KBS Holdco, LLC are ORDERED to meet and
confer regarding a deposition date for the taking of a deposition of and
production of documents by KBS’s PMQ. If the parties cannot agree on a date by
the time of oral argument in this matter, the Court will hear the proposals
from both sides and set a date at that time. 