 Case Number:  22STCV35791    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




XIANG HAO CUI, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
DAE YONG LEE, aka DAVID LEE, et al.
                        Defendants.
STANFORD PLAZA ASSOCIATION,
  INC.,
                        Nominal Defendant.


Case No.:


22STCV35791




Hearing Date:


July 11, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
NOMINAL
  DEFENDANT STANFORD PLAZA ASSOCIATION, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR
  IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




 
Background
On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiffs Xiang Hao Cui, for
himself and derivatively on behalf Nominal Defendant Stanford Plaza Association, Inc., 800
East Pico Blvd, LLC, 808 East Pico Blvd, LLC, and Stanford Plaza Holdings, LLC
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Dae Yong Lee aka
David Lee, Hellen Lee, Young Sung Cho, William Hong, Stanford Pico Plaza, LLC,
and Secured Properties Management Group, Inc. (“SPMG”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) and Nominal Defendant Stanford Plaza Association, Inc. 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) removal of directors,
(2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty,
(4) accounting, (5) declaratory relief, and (6) injunctive relief. 
Nominal Defendant Stanford Plaza Association, Inc. (the “Association”)
now moves for an order granting summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ Complaint. In
the alternative, the Association moves for an order granting summary
adjudication in its favor. The motion is unopposed. 
Legal Standard 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or
more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends
that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Id., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  
Discussion 
A.    Allegations of the
Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege that the Association was formed in 2016 to manage a common
interest development located at 810 East Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, CA
90021–2373, commonly known as “Stanford Plaza.” (Compl., ¶ 1.) The Complaint
alleges that “Plaintiff Xiang Hao Cui brings this action for his direct
injuries and derivatively on behalf of the Association. Plaintiff is
prosecuting the derivative causes of action to redress past and future injuries
to the Association resulting from Defendants’ wrongful conduct.” (Compl., ¶
16.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he wrongful acts and omissions of the
Defendants, who have a voting majority on the Board of Directors of the
Association, demonstrate that a pre-suit demand on the Association to prosecute
these causes of action against the Defendants is excused as a futile and
useless act.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[s]ince August 18, 2022, the Board of
Directors has engaged in a course of conduct that has been in derogation of its
obligations under the Civil Code, including without limitation, the [Commercial
and Industrial Common Interest Developments Act (CID)], the Corporations Code,
and the governing documents of the Association,” including but not limited to (1)
purporting to act based on unapproved and/or unresolved execution of executive
session meetings; (2) allowing Defendant Hong to purport to conduct business on
behalf of the Association, notwithstanding that Hong has never been properly
appointed to act as an agent on behalf of the Association, (3) failing to make
required disclosures to the Association’s insurance carrier[1],
(4) failing to take any action to recover the serious delinquencies incurred by
Stanford Pico Plaza[2], (5)
purporting to install Defendant Hong as a Director, without following proper
procedures, (6) purporting to conduct Association business without convening
meetings and without providing proper notice to all Board members, (7)
purporting to hire Defendant SPMG as community manager for the Association,
notwithstanding that such an engagement would be required to be conducted in an
open meeting properly convened pursuant to the Civil Code, including without
limitation, the CID, the Corporations Code, and the governing documents of the
Association, (8) permitting and encouraging SPMG to take ultra vires
actions on behalf of the Association even though SPMG is without authority to
do so, and (9) refusing to provide documentation to Plaintiff regarding what,
if any, agreements have been executed between SPMG and the Association, or any
Directors or purported agents thereof claiming to act on behalf of the
Association. (Compl., ¶ 31.) 
            Plaintiffs further allege that
“SPMG’s conduct shows that it is in the pocket of David Lee and his cohorts.
Specifically, although David Lee’s maintenance of a $336,000 deficit owed to
the Association has caused great financial harm to the Association, SPMG has
acted as a mere arm of David Lee and his co-conspirators by taking no action to
collect the past-due Association Assessments from Stanford Pico Plaza.”
(Compl., ¶ 29.) In addition, Plaintiffs allege that “former Association
Director Daniel Moon resigned shortly after the August 18, 2022 Executive
Meeting. The Association Bylaws provide that there must be five Directors.
Moon’s resignation has left the Association with only four Directors. The Board
of Directors has purported to carry on in Moon’s absence despite there being
only four Directors remaining. The Board of Directors has made no effort to
elect a replacement director, and more egregiously has not engaged counsel to
determine whether the Board is permitted to carry on despite not having the requisite
number of directors.” (Compl., ¶ 30.) 
In the first cause of action for removal of directors, Plaintiffs
allege that “David Lee has engaged in fraudulent and dishonest acts and has
grossly abused his authority by failing to pay fees and assessments due to the
Association by his company, Defendant Stanford Pico Plaza…” (Compl., ¶ 37.)
Plaintiffs further allege that “Defendants Hellen Lee and Cho have engaged in
fraudulent and dishonest acts and have grossly abused their authority,” as set
forth in paragraph 38 of the Complaint. (Compl., ¶ 38.) Plaintiffs allege that
“Hong has engaged in the same conduct complained of with respect to Defendants
Hellen Lee and Cho.” (Compl., ¶ 39.) Plaintiffs seek “the removal of Defendants
David Lee, Hellen Lee, Cho, and Hong as directors of the Association, and seek[]
the permanent barring of any and all of such Defendants from ever again being
appointed as directors of the Association.” (Compl., ¶ 40.) 
In the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants David Lee, Hellen Lee, and Cho each breached fiduciary
duties of loyalty, care, and good faith owed to Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 44.)
Plaintiffs allege that “[t]o the extent that Hong is determined to be a
properly installed director of the Association, Hong breached his fiduciary
duties of loyalty, care, and good faith owed to Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 49.) 
In the third cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duty, Plaintiffs allege that “Hong, Stanford Pico Plaza, and/or SPMG
facilitated, participated in, ratified, and approved each of the acts and
omissions in breach of Defendants David Lee, Hellen Lee, Cho, and/or Hong’s
fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 55.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[w]ithout the knowing participation of Hong, Stanford Pico Plaza, and/or SPMG,
Defendants David Lee, Hellen Lee, Cho, and/or Hong would have been unable to
act in breach of their fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 56.)
In the fourth cause of action for accounting, Plaintiffs allege that
“[a]n accounting is necessary to determine the financial operations and
misappropriation by Defendants, with respect to the foregoing
allegations…Plaintiffs further seek disgorgement of any profits improperly
derived by Defendants from their operation and/or association with the business
of the Association by virtue of the wrongful acts and omissions alleged
herein.” (Compl., ¶¶ 60-61.)
In the fifth cause of action for declaratory relief, Plaintiffs allege
that “[a]n actual and existing controversy exists between the Plaintiffs and
Defendants with respect to” certain specified issues. (Compl., ¶ 64.)
“Plaintiffs…seek a declaratory judgment regarding each of Plaintiffs’
contentions set forth in this Cause of Action.” (Compl., ¶ 68.) In the sixth
cause of action for injunctive relief, Plaintiffs allege that “unless enjoined
by order of the Court, Defendants will continue to engage in the wrongdoing
alleged in the foregoing allegations of the Complaint…” (Compl., ¶ 70.)
B.     The Business
Judgment Rule 
The Association asserts that “Plaintiffs’ derivative claims must be
dismissed under the business judgment rule.” (Mot. at p. 15:13-14.) As set
forth above, Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiff Xiang Hao Cui brings this action
for his direct injuries and derivatively on behalf of the Association.
Plaintiff is prosecuting the derivative causes of action to redress past and
future injuries to the Association resulting from Defendants’ wrongful
conduct.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) 
The Association cites to
Finley v.
Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1158, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] number of other
states (or federal courts applying the law of other states) have recognized a
special litigation committee defense. This defense arises out of the interplay
between the business judgment rule and the requirement in a stockholder’s derivative
action that the plaintiff must have made a demand on the board of directors to
have the corporation pursue the action. Thus, it has been held that, once a
duly appointed committee of disinterested directors reasonably determines that
it is not in the best interests of the corporation to pursue the claims
asserted in the derivative action, that decision is protected by the business
judgment rule. The trial court must determine, as a matter of fact, whether the
committee members were disinterested and whether they conducted an adequate
investigation. If it answers yes to both questions, however, it must dismiss
the derivative action.” (Internal citation
omitted.) The Finley Court held
that “the special litigation committee
defense is legally valid in California.” (Ibid.) 
The Association also cites
to Will v. Engebretson & Co.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1033, 1040-1041,
where the Court of Appeal found that “[t]he business judgment rule has been
held, among other things, to permit a corporation to appoint a special
litigation committee to decide whether the maintenance of a shareholder’s
derivative suit is in the corporation’s best interests. The committee may
decide that the suit should be dismissed and, if it does, the corporation may
make a motion in the trial court to dismiss the suit. It may demur, move for
judgment on the pleadings, or seek summary judgment.” (Internal citation omitted.) The Will Court noted
that “courts which have considered the
issue have concluded that judicial review of the independence, good faith,
and investigative techniques of a special litigation committee is governed by
traditional summary judgment standards.” (Id. at
p. 1041.)
The Association indicates
that a Special Meeting of
the Board was held on April 13, 2023, and that “[d]uring the April
Meeting, the Board approved the formation of a Special Litigation Committee
(‘SLC’) to determine whether or not it is in the best interests of the
Association and its members to prosecute Plaintiffs’ derivative action filed in
this action, and if not, whether it should be dismissed. The newly elected
board members Kenneth Choi and Bryan Kang were unanimously approved to serve on
the SLC.” (Lim Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5, p.
2.)
            The
Association indicates that “[d]uring the April Meeting, the Board also
approved the formation of an independent Investigative Committee (the ‘IC’) to
investigate, review and analyze the facts of the Complaint and the
circumstances leading to its filing.” (Lim Decl., ¶ 6, p. 2.) “Soon after the
April Meeting, Professor Choong Whan Park, who recently retired from the USC
Marshall School of Business, and attorney Frances M. O’Meara, a partner at Wood
Smith Henning & Berman LLP’s Los Angeles office, were appointed as members
of the IC.” (Lim Decl., ¶ 7, p. 2.)
            In his supporting declaration, Mr.
Park states that he is “a recently retired professor of marketing at the
University of Southern California Marshall School of Business,” and that he
“agreed to serve as a member of the IC.” (Park Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Mr. Park states,
“I have no prior personal or business relationship with any of the parties to
this action. In addition, I also have no prior personal or business
relationship with any of the current members of the board of directors of the
Association.” (Park Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Park states that “[i]n or around late April
2023 and early May 2023, me and Frances M. O’Meara, the other member of the IC,
reviewed the allegations set forth in the complaint filed in this matter, and
various documents provided to us by the Association….After a review of these
documents, me and Ms. O’Meara concluded that there was no validity to any of
the claims alleged in the Complaint.” (Park Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
In her supporting declaration, Ms. O’Meara states that she is “an
attorney and a partner at Wood Smith Henning & Berman LLP’s Los Angeles
office,” and that she “agreed to serve as a member of the IC.” (O’Meara Decl.,
¶¶ 2-3.) Ms. O’Meara states, “I have no prior personal or business relationship
with any of the parties to this action. In addition, I also have no prior
personal or business relationship with any of the current members of the board
of directors of the Association.” (O’Meara Decl., ¶ 4.) Ms. O’Meara states that
“[i]n or around late April 2023 and early May 2023, Chung Whan Park, the other
member of the IC, and I reviewed the allegations set forth in the complaint
filed in this matter, and various documents provided to us by the
Association…After a review of these documents, Mr. Park and I concluded that
there was no validity to any of the claims alleged in the Complaint. (O’Meara
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
Mr. Park and Ms. O’Meara both state that “[a] meeting of the Special
Litigation Committee was held on May 8, 2023 (the ‘May Meeting’). [Mr. Park and
Ms. O’Meara]…orally presented [their] findings at the May Meeting. The minutes
of the May Meeting truthfully summarizes the presentation made by the IC during
the May Meeting.” (Park Decl., ¶ 7; O’Meara Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            A copy of the minutes of the subject
May 8, 2023 meeting is attached as Exhibit “3” to the Association’s counsel’s
declaration. (Lim Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3, p. 3.) These minutes provide, inter
alia, that “Ms. O’Meara and Mr. Park, on behalf of the Investigation
Committee (‘IC’), made the following oral presentation:
 
1. The IC has
reviewed the derivative complaint filed by Xiang Hao Cui in the case entitled
Xiang Hao Cui, et al., vs. Dae Yong Lee, et al., LASC Case No. 22STCV35791 (the
“Complaint”), and made the following findings: 
 
a. The
Complaint alleges that David Lee failed to disclose his conviction, and that
his conviction prevented the HOA from renewing its insurance; 
 
b. The IC has
investigated the foregoing claim. The IC has concluded that documents show that
non-renewal of the insurance carrier’s coverage was based solely on the FTB’s
suspension of the Association for failure to pay outstanding taxes. The Notice
of Non-Renewal from Farmers Insurance (the ‘Notice’) specifically mentioned the
Association’s suspended status. The Notice does not mention David Lee’s
conviction. The failure to pay the FTB was caused by Jane’s Asset Management,
which had notice of the Association’s suspended status since at least 2021, and
was not related to David Lee’s conviction. The Notice is attached to these
Minutes;
 
c. The Notice
from Farmers Insurance is dated January 26, 2023. The IC did not see any
follow-up, but noted that Jane’s Asset Management/Mr. John Ko resigned in Aug
22, 2022. E-mails from a Farmer’s broker to John Ko in November and December of
2022 showed Farmer’s concern regarding the HOA’s suspended status with the SOS.
The Association’s August 18, 2022 Minutes, which refer to Jane’s Asset
Management’s resignation, is attached to these Minutes. The emails from
Farmer’s broker to John Ko are attached to these Minutes.
 
d. The
Complaint alleges that David Lee’s company was seriously delinquent in dues
owed to HOA, in the sum of approximately $336,000. The Complaint alleges that
at the August 18, 2022 Board meeting, Cui proposed a formal demand that David
Lee’s company pay at least $39,922 per month or approve enforcement of the
CC&R’s;
 
e. The IC has
investigated the foregoing claim. The IC has concluded that as documented by
the Minutes of the April 13, 2023 Special Meeting of the Board, the Board
approved a payment plan of $50,000 per month to be paid by David Lee, $30,000
of which is for arrearages. The IC has concluded that the Board obtained a
better agreement than demanded by Cui. The April 13, 2023 Minutes are attached
to these Minutes. 
 
f. The IC has
found that Cui was delinquent in payment of his own dues. He owed the HOA
approximately $294,126.20. A payment history showing amount due by Cui is
attached to these Minutes;
 
g. The
Complaint alleges that the property management company SPMC is in the pocket of
David Lee;
 
h. The IC has
investigated the foregoing claim. The IC has found no evidence that SMPC is in
the pocket of David Lee. The IC notes that it was critical that a new property
management company be hired after Jane’s Asset Management’s resignation. SPMC
is licensed, and has a real estate broker’s license. Jane’s Asset Management
did not have one. Jane’s Asset Management was operating improperly and resigned
in August 2022. The DRE printout, which shows that John Ko and Jane’s Asset
Management were not licensed, is attached to these Minutes. The DRE printout,
which shows that SMPC is licensed, is attached to these Minutes.
 
i. The
Complaint alleges that the Association’s Bylaws required 5 directors, and that
there were improper meetings and actions taken without quorum;
 
j. The IC has
investigated the foregoing claim. The IC has found that the Association’s
Members in January 2023 voted to fill vacancies of directors David Lee and
Daniel Moon. Hellen Lee nominated Will Hong to replace David Lee. She nominated
Bryan Kang to replace Daniel Moon. Cui was removed and replaced by Kenneth
Choi. The foregoing acts were properly done and documented in the
Members/Board’s January 16, 2023 Minutes. There were no improper ultra vires
acts. There were no damages to the Association for its failure to have five
board members. The January 16, 2023 Minutes are attached to these Minutes.
k. Finding: The
IC has found that there is no validity to the claims alleged in the Complaint.
The IC has concluded that Cui should have made a demand on the Board. However,
the IC has also concluded that even if Cui had made a demand on the Board, the
Board would have acted and come to same conclusion.
 
l. All attached
documents were reviewed and considered by the IC in arriving at its findings.”
(Lim Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3, p. 3, emphasis added.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that the Association has shown that “the committee members were disinterested,” and that “they
conducted an adequate investigation.” (Finley v. Superior Court,
supra, 80 Cal.App.4th at p. 1158.) As discussed, if the Court “answers yes to both questions…it must dismiss the
derivative action.” (Ibid.) 
            As
discussed, the instant motion is unopposed. Thus, Plaintiffs do not dispute
that Plaintiffs’ derivative claims should be dismissed under the business
judgment rule. The Court does not find that Plaintiffs
(or any party) have raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether “the
committee members were disinterested,” or whether “they conducted an adequate
investigation.” (Finley v. Superior Court,
supra, 80 Cal.App.4th at p. 1158.) Accordingly, the Court grants the Association’s motion for
summary judgment. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Association’s motion for summary judgment
is granted as to Plaintiffs’ derivative claims.[3] 
The
Association is ordered to file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days of
the date of this Order.  
The
Association is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  July 11, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


