 Case Number:  24STCV18952    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VALENTINA ASATRYAN, et al.
  
        
  vs.
 
SOURIK GASPARIAN, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV18952   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 9, 2024




 
            Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
            On
7/30/2024, Plaintiffs Valentina and Vahagn Asatryan (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed suit against Sourik Gasparian and Manushak Sldryan (collectively,
Defendants), alleging: (1) negligence; (2) concealment; (3) violation of Civil
Code section 1940.2; (4) breach of warranty of habitability; (5) breach of
warranty of quiet enjoyment; (6) damages for violation of LARSO; (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED); (8) negligent infliction
of emotional distress; (9) restitution. 
 
            On
10/23/2024, Defendants demurred to the second and sixth causes of action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not sufficiently plead claims for concealment or IIED.

 
            As
for the fraud claim, Defendants note that Plaintiffs allege “on information and
belief,” that Defendants had actual knowledge the unit was not permitted for
use as a separate dwelling by tenant. (Complaint ¶ 13.) Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs do not allege acts facts which could support this allegation.
However, it is difficult to see how Plaintiffs could allege specific facts
which would speak to Defendants’ knowledge without the benefit of discovery. At
the pleading stage, this allegation is sufficient. 
 
            As
for the IIED claim, Defendants do not challenge the sufficiency of Plaintiffs’
claims for breach of the warranty of habituality, and as forth above, the Court
overruled Defendants’ demurrer to the fraud cause of action. As such,
Plaintiffs have alleged facts which, accepted as true, could show that
Defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct towards Plaintiffs with
reckless disregard for the probability of causing emotional distress and which
actually resulted in emotional distress. (Christensen v. Superior Court
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike   
 
            Defendants
move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. Given the Court’s
conclusion that the fraud cause of action is sufficiently plead, Plaintiffs
have necessarily alleged sufficient facts which could show malice, oppression,
or fraud. (Civil Code §3294.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 