 Case Number:  23STCV18212    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV18212




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Request for
  Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Jacob Brown and April Brown




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Oscar Renee
  Lopez Velasquez 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 2, 2023,
Plaintiffs Jacob Brown and April Brown (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“LACMTA”), Oscar Renee Lopez Velasquez (“Velasquez”), and Does 1 to
50 for negligence, negligent hiring, training, supervision, retention, and loss
of consortium. Plaintiffs allege that Jacob Brown was struck by a bus driven by
Velasquez in the course of his employment with LACMTA. 
 
Plaintiffs now move to compel the videotaped deposition of LACMTA’s
person most knowledgeable and request for production of documents pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 20205.450(a). Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Oscar Renee Lopez Velasquez
(“Defendants”) oppose. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to
take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the
specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the
deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a) provides: “If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  Section 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under section 2025.410. 
 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(1).) 
  
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Brian Poulter shows that Plaintiffs’ counsel
attempted to contact LACMTA’s counsel to schedule this deposition. (Poulter
Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, on November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs noticed the deposition of
LACMTA’s person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) to take place on December 7, 2023.
(Poulter Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 2.) On November 30, 2023, LACMTA served an objection
on the basis that the date was unilaterally set. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. 3.)
LACMTA also objected to each of the six requests for production attached to the
notice. The objections were all identical arguing the requests violated the
attorney client privilege, work product doctrine, contained trade secrets, and were
not relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
 
 Plaintiffs requested
alternative dates for the PMK deposition on December 13, 2023, December 27,
2023, and January 3, 2024. (Id. ¶ 5–6.) LACMTA did not provide dates. 
 
In opposition, Defendants contend the deposition of LACMTA’s PMK took
place on April 4, 2024. (Citron Decl. ¶ 2.) According to Defendants, on April
19, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel told Defendants’ counsel that they were no longer
seeking to compel the PMK or sanctions but continued to compel production of
documents regarding LACMTA’s employee training materials. (Id. ¶ 3.)
Plaintiffs have not filed a reply. 
 
Therefore, because Defendants’ assertions have not been disputed in a
reply, the motion to compel the deposition of LACMTA’s PMK and request for
monetary sanctions is denied as moot. 
 
As for the requests for production, Plaintiffs requested documents
pertaining to LACMTA’s training, and policies and procedures regarding safe bus
driving, as well as records about Velasquez’s training. Reviewing the requests,
the Court finds Plaintiffs have shown good
cause to justify the production since the documents are related to their
negligent training, supervision, and retention cause of action. In opposition,
Defendants argue that the document requests are unnecessary since LACMTA’s PMK
testified about the policies and procedures in her deposition. (Opp., 3.)
Defendants also assert the documents are protected by the attorney-client
privilege and work product doctrine, are trade secrets, and part of
confidential personnel files. 
 
Since Plaintiffs have not replied to the opposition, it is unclear if
Plaintiffs still seek to compel the production of documents in light of the
April 4, 2024 deposition testimony. If so, Plaintiffs should file a noticed
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the
videotaped deposition of LACMTA’s person most knowledgeable and request for
production of documents as moot without prejudice to filing a motion to compel
production of the documents requested in the April 4, 2024 deposition notice. 
 
Plaintiffs shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 
 