  Case Number:  20STCV00145    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV00145




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Reconsideration




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Matthew Morgan  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Adan
  Villareal 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 2, 2020, Plaintiff Matthew Morgan (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Infinity Insurance Company, Adan Villareal, Geico, and Does
1 to 10 for negligence related to a motor vehicle accident.  
 
On February
27, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoenas against
Defendant Adan Villareal (“Defendant”), but denied the
request for sanctions, given the procedural defect in filing the motion. (Min.
Order, 2/27/24.) The Court found that the motion was served five days after the
statutorily required deadline for notice. The Court granted a short continuance
to give Defendant time to respond, but Defendant submitted on the tentative. The
Court mailed notice of the order to Plaintiff on February 27, 2024. (See
Certificate of Mailing, 2/27/24.) 
 
On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008(a), asking the Court to modify the order by granting terminating
and monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent
part:   
 
“(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.  
 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte
motion.   
… 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”  
(Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a),
(b), (e).)   
 
A motion for
reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new
or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)
However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party
seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information
must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of
having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also
to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new
or different information earlier…”].)¿¿A disagreement with a ruling is not a
new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)  
 
If the above
statutory requirements are granted, reconsideration should be granted. However,
a court is not required to change its decision upon reconsideration. (Corns
v. Miller (1986) 181 CA3d 195, 202, 226 CR 247, 251.) Although parties may
move for reconsideration only as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section
1008, the statute “do[es] not limit the court's ability, on its own motion, to
reconsider its prior interim orders so it may correct its own errors.” (Le
Francois v. Goel¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.)  
            
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion
is timely since it was made within ten days after notice of the order was
served, plus five calendar days for service by mail. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1013(a).) 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to quash was
originally scheduled for February 22, 2024, but continued due to the procedural
defect. After Defendant was given more time to draft a response, he decided to
submit on the tentative. 
 
First, Plaintiff does not set forth
a statutory basis for awarding terminating sanctions in a motion to quash
subpoenas. Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 allows for monetary sanctions
for reasonable expenses in bringing the motion. In any event, an order
terminating the case should not be made lightly, and the Court does not find
sufficient evidence of willful violations.
 
As for monetary sanctions,
Plaintiff argues that from February 23, 2024 and March 4, 2024 (after he
submitted on the tentative on February 22, 2024), he began receiving more
notices from Unisource Discovery stating that records were received in response
to various subpoenas. (Morgan Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B–G.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant
should have halted these records on February 22, 2024. On February 29, 2024,
Plaintiff emailed Defendant’s counsel requesting that they turn over all
documents received and a sworn statement that the information was destroyed.
Defendant’s counsel responded that they would advise the subpoena service that
the motion to quash was granted. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. H.)
 
The Court finds this motion is
deficient because the declaration in support fails to include the information
required in section 1008(b). (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) Even if the Court
reconsidered the motion, it would not modify the denial of sanctions. The Court
declined to award monetary sanctions because of the notice defect. Even though Plaintiff
argues this was cured after the Court continued the hearing, the purported
change in facts do not pertain to the issue of notice. Accordingly, the Court declines
to modify the order. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 