 Case Number:  23TRCV04321    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                             Tuesday, April 9, 2024   
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 10
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jennifer
Flagler, et al. v. Timothy Racisz, et al.  
23TRCV04321

1.      Timothy Racisz’s Demurrer to Complaint      

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Timothy Racisz’s Demurrer to
Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on December 29, 2023. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent, Jonathan Flagler, a
firefighter, died while fighting a fire at 30751 Tarapaca Road Rancho Palos
Verdes – a residence owned by Defendant Racisz. Plaintiffs allege causes of
action for: 1. Wrongful Death; 2. Survival Action.  
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Defendant set forth a
meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41.  (Decl. Robert M. Juskie.)   
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial notice of the autopsy report
is granted, in part, and denied, in part. The Court takes judicial notice of
the existence of the autopsy report but does not take judicial notice of the
truth of any matters within the report.
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendant demurs to the Complaint and each of the two
causes of action. Defendant states the following: “This Demurrer is made
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.010 and is based on
the grounds that each of Plaintiffs’ claims fails to state a claim upon which
relief may be granted.”  (Notice of
Demurrer, page 1, lines 25-27.)  The
Court notes that there is no CCP § 430.010.  To the extent that Defendant appears to be relying
upon CCP § 430.10, Defendant did not specify the specific sub-section relied
upon by Defendant. The Court notes that the language stated by Defendant most
closely resembles the language of CCP § 430.10(e) which states: “The pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s causes of action are
barred by the Firefighter’s Rule and that no exception to the rule applies
under the facts alleged by Plaintiffs. 
 
            “The fireman's rule provides that negligence in causing a
fire furnishes no basis for liability to a professional fireman injured
fighting the fire. Firemen, whose occupation by its very nature exposes them to
particular risks of harm, “‘cannot complain of negligence in the creation of
the very occasion for [their] engagement.’”  Walters v. Sloan (1977) 20 Cal.3d 199,
202 (internal citation and quotation omitted).
 
            Civ. Code, § 1714.9 states:
            “(a) Notwithstanding statutory or decisional law to the
contrary, any person is responsible not only for the results of that person's
willful acts causing injury to a peace officer, firefighter, or any emergency
medical personnel employed by a public entity, but also for any injury
occasioned to that person by the want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of the person's property or person, in any of the following
situations:
            (1) Where the conduct causing the injury occurs after the
person knows or should have known of the presence of the peace officer,
firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (2) Where the conduct causing injury violates a statute,
ordinance, or regulation, and the conduct causing injury was itself not the
event that precipitated either the response or presence of the peace officer,
firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (3) Where the conduct causing the injury was intended to
injure the peace officer, firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (4) Where the conduct causing the injury is arson as
defined in Section 451 of the Penal Code.
            (b) This section does not preclude the reduction of an
award of damages because of the comparative fault of the peace officer,
firefighter, or emergency medical personnel in causing the injury.
            (c) The employer of a firefighter, peace officer or
emergency medical personnel may be subrogated to the rights granted by this
section to the extent of the worker's compensation benefits, and other
liabilities of the employer, including all salary, wage, pension, or other
emolument paid to the employee or the employee's dependents.
            (d) The liability imposed by this section shall not apply
to an employer of a peace officer, firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (e) This section is not intended to change or modify the
common law independent cause exception to the firefighter's rule as set forth
in Donohue v. San Francisco Housing Authority (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 658.”
 
            The Court notes that the independent cause exception
resembles the exception noted in Civ. Code § 1714.9(a)(2).  In Donohue, the Court of Appeal held
that the action was not barred by the firefighter’s rule because the alleged
misconduct was the defendant’s failure to install nonslip adhesive treads on
stairs as well as hosing down the stairs – neither of which were the reason for
Plaintiff’s presence. Donohue v. San Francisco Housing Authority (1993)
16 Cal.App.4th 658
 
            First Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
            Second Cause of Action for Survival Action
 
            Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action. 
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are
a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death. (Boeken v. Philip Morris
USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 806, 108 Cal.Rptr.3d 806, 230 P.3d 342.)
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty to use due care and
breach of duty, which proximately causes injury.” Lopez v. City of Los
Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.
 
            “Unlike a cause of action for wrongful death, a survivor
cause of action is not a new cause of action that vests in the heirs on the
death of the decedent. It is instead a separate and distinct cause of action
which belonged to the decedent before death but, by statute, survives that
event. [¶] A cause of action that survives the death of a person passes to the
decedent's successor in interest and is enforceable by the “decedent's personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) In the typical survivor action, the damages recoverable
by a personal representative or successor in interest on a decedent's cause of
action are limited by statute to the loss or damage that the decedent sustained
or incurred before death, including any penalties or punitive or exemplary
damages that the decedent would have been entitled to recover had the decedent
lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement.” Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1256, 1264–65 (internal citations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            On the face of the allegations, Plaintiffs fail to state
facts sufficient to state a cause of action. The allegations reveal a complete
defense pursuant to the Firefighter’s Rule. “The ‘fireman's rule’ here
discussed, however, is that which negates liability to firemen by one whose
negligence causes or contributes to the fire which in turn causes the death or
injury of the fireman.”  Giorgi v.
Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 355, 357. 
 
            Here, Plaintiffs allege that, prior to the fire,
Defendant made unpermitted additions at the subject residence without fire
mitigation treatments, supervised electrical modifications at the residence,
and installed solar panels. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-14.)  Plaintiffs allege that these actions caused
the fire to spread rapidly. (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that the failure to
maintain the additions was not the act that caused the actual ignition
of the fire but that it accelerated the fire’s progression. (Id. at ¶¶ 16-17
(emphasis added).)  The Court notes that
Plaintiffs do not specifically state whether the alleged negligent conduct
regarding the electrical modifications was or was not the cause of the
ignition. 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that they have pleaded allegations to
show an exception to the Firefighter’s Rule by alleging that the additions were
not the cause of the fire but instead the cause of spreading the fire rapidly. However, Plaintiffs’ strained attempt to
squeeze an exception from their own factual allegations is unavailing. If Plaintiffs’ theory is accepted, it would
essentially eviscerate the Firefighter’s Rule as any party could allege that an
act of spreading the fire as opposed to igniting the fire would fall under the
exception.  As read as a whole, the
Complaint clearly alleges that the reason why Plaintiffs’ decedent was at the
scene of the residence was because of the negligent conduct of Defendant and
that the cause of the injury was the act that precipitated the response. Again,
Plaintiffs’ theory appears to be that only the “igniting” of the fire would
fall under the Firefighter’s Rule and the “spreading” of the fire would fall
under the exception of the Firefighter’s Rule. However, under this theory it
could be argued that after the ignition, perhaps if fire mitigation efforts had
been in place, then the fire department would not have been called to the
scene.  However, the fact that the fire
department was called to the scene precisely because of the “spread” of the
fire itself would show that the conduct causing injury was the event that
precipitated the fire department’s response, and, thus, would not fall under
the exception. 
 
            Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.