

 
            The County
of Los Angeles (County) brings this action for contractual fraud and false
claims against Nexus IS, Inc. (Nexus), Dimension Data North America, Inc.
(Dimension Data), NTT America Solutions, Inc. (NTT), Presidio Networked
Solutions Group, LLC (Presidio), Tel/Pro Voice and Data, Inc. (Tel/Pro), Oasis
Integration, Inc. (Oasis), Thomas Shepos (Shepos), Mohammad Tirmazi (Tirmazi),
Enrique Contreras (Enrique), Melissa Contreras (Melissa), TEQ Solutions, LLC (TEQ
Solutions), Syed Hussnain (Hussnain), and Gregory Hanes (Hanes).
 
            Nexus is a prime contractor with the
County. In 2017, Nexus was acquired by Dimension Data, and in 2019, Dimension
Data changed its name to NTT. Presidio is also a prime contractor with the
County. As prime contractors, Nexus, Dimension Data, and NTT (Nexus Defendants)
and Presidio were authorized to bid on Work Orders under Telecommunications
Equipment and Services Master Agreements (TESMAs) with the County’s Internal
Services Department.
 
Tel/Pro performed electrical wiring and telecommunications work for the
County, first as a subcontractor for the Nexus Defendants and Presidio, and
then as a prime contractor starting in 2017. According to the County’s Complaint,
Oasis is the successor of Tel/Pro, and Tel/Pro and Oasis are owned by Enrique
and Melissa (the Contreras).
 
Shepos was employed by the County as the Lease Acquisition Section Chief
for the Real Estate Division of the Chief Executive Office. As part of his role
with the County, Shepos was authorized to receive proposals from contractors
and approve construction projects for County-leased properties.
 
Tirmazi was employed by the County's Internal Services Department as a
Supervising Telecom Engineer. Tirmazi’s job duties included inspecting County
buildings ahead of construction projects to determine what the County's needs
were regarding telecommunications work and electrical cabling. Tirmazi also
served as the Project Manager for the County on numerous projects for which
Work Orders were awarded to Tel/Pro -­ either directly as a prime contractor or
indirectly as a subcontractor to the Nexus Defendants or Presidio. As a Project
Manager, Tirmazi was responsible for reviewing and selecting prime contractor
bids for specific projects.
 
The County’s complaint alleges that Contreras, as owner of Tel/Pro,
bribed Shepos and Tirmazi with cash, checks and/or gifts in exchange for
non-public County information. The information was used to help Tel/Pro secure
electrical and telecommunications subcontracts, and eventually Work Orders as a
prime contractor, with the County.
 
More
specifically, the County alleges Shepos would tell Contreras about upcoming
County projects and the number of bids on those projects. Shepos would also use
his influence to help Tel/Pro – or the Nexus Defendants and Presidio who would
subcontract with Tel/Pro – to obtain County contracts. Meanwhile, Tirmazi
approved false, inflated, or otherwise overpriced invoices from Tel/Pro, and
concealed Tel/Pro's “shoddy” work which failed to conform to the County's
Building and Safety Code or the National Electrical Code. To conceal the bribes
received from Contreras and Tel/Pro, Shepos used Hanes as an intermediary and
Tirmazi formed TEQ Solutions. To conceal Tirmazi’s interest in the TEQ
Solutions, Tirmazi had another individual, Hussnain, file the registration
paperwork and open a bank account for TEQ Solutions.
 
Based on these allegations, the County asserts thirteen causes of action
for: (1) California Government Code sections 1090 and 1092; (2) declaratory
relief; (3) violation of the California False Claims Act, Cal. Government Code
section 12651, subdivision (a)(l); (4) violation of the California False Claims
Act, Cal. Government Code section 12651, subdivision (a)(2); (5) violation of
the California False Claims Act, Cal. Government Code section 12651,
subdivision (a)(3); (6) violation of the California False Claims Act, Cal.
Government Code section 12651, subdivision (a)(8); (7) intentional and
constructive fraud; (8) breach of contract; (9) civil conspiracy to defraud;
(10) unjust enrichment/restitution; (11) breach of fiduciary duty; (12) aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; and (13) violation of California's
unfair competition law, Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq. 
 
On April
10, 2023, Defendant Presidio Networked Solutions Group, LLC demurred to the
Complaint. The Court sustained the demurrer as to second, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action, and overruled as to the first,
eighth, tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action. The Court granted
leave to amend. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Nexus Defendants demurred to the Complaint. The
Court sustained the demurrer to the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, and ninth cause of action, and overruled as to the first, eighth,
tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action. The Court granted leave to
amend.
 
On April
24, 2023, Defendants Mohammad Tirmazi, TEQ Solutions, LLC, and Syed Hussnain (Moving
Defendants) demurred to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth,
tenth, eleventh twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action. The County opposes
the demurrer. No reply was filed. 
 
            The Demurrer to the seventh and ninth causes of
action in the Complaint are sustained with leave to amend, and the demurrer to
the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, tenth,
eleventh twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action are overruled. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
Moving
Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted as to Exhibits 1-3 for existence and
filing only, and is denied as to Exhibit 4. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
The County’s request for judicial
notice is granted as to Exhibit 1. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Moving Defendants demur on the
grounds that each cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations. The
Complaint alleges nine claims against Defendants Tirmazi (first, third, fourth,
fifth, seventh, ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelfth causes of action) and five
claims against Defendants TEQ Solutions and Hussnain (fifth, sixth, ninth, twelfth
and thirteenth causes of action).
 
In opposition, the County argues
that these claims are all either subject to delayed accrual or tolling or both.
 
With respect to the first cause of
action, Moving Defendants argue that the County knew or should have known of
the claimed conflict of interest in contracts by at least mid-2017, when the
investigation into Contreras began. (Compl., Ex. B.) The Complaint was filed on
February 10, 2023 – more than four years after the statute of limitations for this
claim expired. (Gov. Code, § 1092, subd. (b).) 
 
The third, fourth, fifth, sixth and thirteenth
causes of action are based on either causes of action for violations of the
False Claims Act or are derivative of violations of the False Claims Act.
(Compl. ¶¶ 104-165, 213-217.) The statute of limitations for a claim arising
under California’s False Claims Act is six years from the date of the violation
or three years from the date when plaintiff knew or should have known the
material facts, whichever is later. (Gov. Code, § 12654(a).
The statute of limitations for a
claim arising under California’s Unfair Competition Law is four years from the
date the underlying claim accrues—here, four years from either the date of the
California False Claims Act violations or the date when plaintiff knew or
should have known the material facts, whichever is later. (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17208.)
 
Moving Defendant argue the Complaint
alleges Tirmazi engaged in the violations between 2014 and 2017. (Complaint, ¶
77(a).) As such, claims based on conduct predating August 16, 2016, are
time-barred. 
 
The Court previously ruled on this
statute of limitations issue determining that the County discovered the
wrongdoing on April 24, 2019 when Contreras’ and Tirmazi’s Plea Agreements were
filed. (Compl., ¶ 83.) This Court further held that the complaint satisfies the
second element by alleging that the County was “unable to discover . . . the
full scope of each Defendant’s misconduct” due to “Defendants’ express
misrepresentations and concealment of the bribery schemes from the County.” (Compl.,
¶ 84.) Based on the allegations, the County’s did not and could not have
learned about Tel/Pro’s bribery scheme and which contracts were implicated until
this later date. (County’s Opp. P. 7:5-10; Compl., ¶ 83.)[1]
Further, the Complaint contains numerous allegations of acts done to conceal
the misconduct underlying these claims. (Compl., ¶¶ 15, 50, 52(e), (g),
69(a)-(f), 77(a)-(j).)
 
Based on the foregoing, the County’s
first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and thirteenth causes of action are not
time-barred. 
 
The
eleventh cause of action for breach of the fiduciary duty—contrary to Moving
Defendants’ argument in demurrer – is subject to a four-year statute of limitations,
not three years. (City of Vista v.
Robert Thomas Securities, Inc.
(2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 882, 889 [four-year statute of limitations applies to
breach of fiduciary duty, unless the gravamen of the claim is actual or
constructive fraud, in which case the statute of limitations is three years]; Fuller
v. First Franklin Financial Corp. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 955, 963.)
 
As
the Court explained in its prior rulings on the other Defendants’ demurrers,
the breach of the fiduciary duty claim does not arise out of fraud, but is,
instead, based on allegations that Shepos and Tirmazi breached their fiduciary duties and
abused their authority by, among other things, (i) helping steer lucrative
County contracts to Tel/Pro or contractors that they knew would subcontract
their work to Tel/Pro; (ii) approving change orders for work that did not occur
and materials that were not purchased, used, or necessary; (iii) approving
invoices for work and materials that were overpriced; and (iv) failing to
report or force Tel/Pro to correct code violations and other shoddy work
uncovered during inspections. (Compl., ¶¶ 69, 77, 205, 207, Exs. A-C.) 
 
Similarly, the tenth cause of action
for unjust enrichment against Tirmazi also arises from the breach of fiduciary
duty allegations—not fraud. (Compl., ¶¶ 3, 5, 198-99 [Tirmazi breached his fiduciary
duty by accepting bribes in exchange for official acts, including disclosing
“non-public information about the County’s needs for electrical and
telecommunications work, the bidding process, and bids submitted by competing
contractors”];  ¶¶ 193-94 [Tirmazi was
“unjustly enriched” with “illicit payments and gifts in exchange for, among
other things, non-public information about the County’s electrical and
telecommunication needs”].) Thus, the unjust enrichment claim is subject to a
four-year statute of limitations. (See American Master Lease LLC v.
Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1479; see also, FDIC
v. Dintino (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 333, 347-348; see also County of San Bernardino v. Walsh (2007) 158 Cal. App. 4th 533, 543 [“Disgorgement
of profits is particularly applicable in cases dealing with breach of a
fiduciary duty, and is a logical extension of the principle that public
officials and other fiduciaries cannot profit by a breach of their duty. Where
a person profits from transactions conducted by him as a fiduciary, the proper
measure of damages is full disgorgement of any secret profit made by the
fiduciary regardless of whether the principal suffers any damage.”].)


Thus, the tenth and eleventh causes
of action are not time barred based on the discovery date of April 24, 2019. 
 
The
seventh cause of action for intentional and constructive fraud and the ninth cause
of action for conspiracy to defraud are without question based on fraud. Moving
Defendants argue that these claims are therefore subject to a three-year
statute of limitations. 
 
In
response, the County argues that the conspiracy to defraud claim is timely. The
limitations for conspiracy does not begin to run “until the ‘last overt act’
pursuant to the conspiracy has been completed.” (Wyatt v. Union Mortg. Co.
(1979) 24 Cal. 3d 773, 786.) Here, the County argues the last overt act
occurred when the final payment under the fraudulent Work Orders was made.
(Compl. ¶¶ 1, 82-82(a)-(c), 144-49, 185-86.) However, the County’s citations to
the Complaint does not allege a specific date of this final payment such that
the Court cannot ascertain whether this date would render the claim timely.
Thus, the demurrer to this cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Additionally,
Defendants argue that fraud and conspiracy claims should be pled as a single
cause of action. (Dem. at 13-14.) The County has agreed to combine the claims.
The Court will sustain this claim with leave to amend on this basis. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, the demurrer
to the seventh cause of action for intentional
and constructive fraud and the ninth cause of action for conspiracy to defraud,
is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            Conspiracy
and abetting claims against TEQ Solutions
 
            Moving Defendants
also demur to the fifth, ninth, and thirteenth causes of action alleged against
Defendant TEQ Solutions on the grounds that these causes of action rely on a
purported conspiracy between the TEQ Solutions and Tirmazi. They argue that this
claim fails as a matter of law because TEQ Solutions is controlled by Tirmazi.
That is, TEQ Solutions and Tirmazi could not
conspire with each other because according to Plaintiff’s allegations, TEQ
Solutions is controlled by Tirmazi. (Complaint, ¶ 15.)
 
            In its twelfth cause of action, the
County alleges TEQ Solutions aided and abetted Tirmazi’s breach of fiduciary
duties to the County. (Complaint, ¶¶ 201-12.) Again, TEQ Solutions argues that because
Tirmazi controls TEQ Solutions, TEQ Solutions could not aid and abet Tirmazi in
committing a tort.
 
            In response, the County argues that
the conspiracy claims are not only alleged as to TEQ Solutions and Tirmaz. (See
Compl., ¶ 80(b) [Hussnain agreed to file registration, open bank account, and
serve as registered agent for TEQ to conceal bribes], ¶ 148 [TEQ “assist[ed]
Tirmazi and the Tel/Pro Defendants in hiding the bribe payments they exchanged
for the purpose of causing the County to pay out millions of dollars in
taxpayer funds under the fraudulent Work Orders”].) Thus, whether TEQ could
conspire with Tirmazi is not determinative of whether the demurrer to these
causes of action can be sustained. 
 
Moreover,
the County persuasively argues it has alleged facts to support an exception to
the doctrine that a corporation cannot conspire with its own employees or
agents. (Hawaii ex rel. Torricer v.
Liberty Dialysis-Hawaii LLC (D. Hawaii
2021) 512 F.Supp.3d 1096, 1118.) That is, the Complaint alleges Tirmazi
had an independent personal stake in receiving bribes from Contreras. (See United States v. Medoc Health Services LLC (N.D. Tex. 2020) 470 F.Supp.3d 638, 659; H & B
Equipment Co., Inc. v. International Harvester Co. (5th Cir. 1978) 577 F.2d
239, 244; cf. Doctors' Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 39, 47.) 
 
Thus, Moving Defendants’ demurrer based on the
supposed identity of TEQ Solutions and Tirmazi is not well-taken. 
 
Sixth and Thirteenth Causes of Action
 
            Moving Defendants
argue that the County failed to state cognizable violations of Government Code section
12651, subdivision (a)(8). 
 
            Government
Code section 12651(a)(8) subjects a person to punitive
damages if he (1) benefitted from (2) an inadvertent submission of (3) a false
claim, and (4) subsequently discovered the falsity of the claim, but (5) failed
to disclose the false claim within a reasonable time. (Cal. Gov’t Code §
12651(a)(8).) 
 
            Moving Defendants argue that the County
failed to adequately plead the first four of these elements of this claim. 
 
            The demurrer on this ground is not
well-taken; the claim is adequately pled. 
 
Here,
the Complaint alleges TEQ Solutions, and Hussnain benefitted from the
submission of a false claim. (Comp., ¶¶ 80 (h), 159.)[2]

 
Further,
the Complaint alleges that the Contreras bribed Tirmazi with cash, checks and
gifts in exchange for, among other things, approving fraudulent change orders
and inflated invoices and failing to report or force Tel/Pro to correct code
violations and other shoddy work. (Compl., ¶ 77(a)-(j); Ex. C at 129-33.) 
 
Third,
the Complaint alleges the County made payments under these fraudulent invoices
and change orders, and every other Work Order and contract secured through
bribery. (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 104-165.) These payments constitute false claims. (United States ex rel. Campie v. Gilead Sciences, Inc. (9th Cir. 2017) 862 F.3d 890, 901; U.S. ex rel.
Hendow v. University of Phoenix (9th Cir. 2006) 461 F.3d 1166, 1170.)  
 
Finally, the County also alleges
that TEQ and Hussnain were paid for facilitating and concealing the bribery
schemes that resulted in these false claims, including through bribes paid by
Contreras. (Compl. ¶¶ 80(h), 159.)
 
The
demurrer on this ground is overruled. 
 
            Tenth Cause
of Action for Unjust Enrichment 
 
            In its
tenth cause of action, the County alleges Tirmazi was unjustly enriched at the
expense of the County when he received bribes. (Compl., ¶¶ 190, 193.)
 
            Moving Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because Tirmazi has already paid
restitution to the County for the bribes he received, and thus has not retained
any benefit at the County’s expense. 
 
In making this argument, Moving
Defendants rely on their request for judicial notice of a June 11, 2020 check. (Pl.’s
RJN Ex. 4 [June 11, 2020 restitution check].) As
noted above, this evidence is not properly subject to judicial notice.
Moreover, as the opposition argues, none of Moving Defendants’ request for judicial
notice exhibits state how much restitution Tirmazi actually paid to the County.
 
            Additionally, the law recognizes a
victim has a right to both restitution and a separate civil judgment. (Vigilant Ins. Co. v. Chiu (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 438, 445 [“Since
restitution orders and civil judgments are issued for different purposes, a
victim suffering from economic losses as a result of a criminal act has a right
to both”].)
 
The
demurrer to the unjust enrichment cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Unfair Competition Law Claim:
 
            In its thirteenth cause of action, the
County alleges TEQ Solutions and Hussnain violated California’s Unfair
Competition Law (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et seq.) by conspiring to
violate the False Claims Act and by failing to disclose their purported
discovery of false claims to the county. (Compl., ¶¶ 213-17.)
 
            On demurrer, Moving Defendant argue
this claim fails because the actions that the County alleges TEQ Solutions and
Hussnain engaged in do not constitute business acts or practices.
 
            In response, the County argues that Defendants’
conclusory argument that their actions were not business acts or practices is
not well-taken. Notably, Defendants cite no legal authority that suggests the
conduct at issue does not constitute business acts or practices under the
statute. 
 
Moreover,
the County correctly explains that a UCL claim may borrow violations of other
laws and, when committed pursuant to business activity, these separate
statutory violations are independently actionable under the UCL. (See Farmers
Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 377, 383.) Here, where the
predicate statutory claims survive, the UCL claim cannot be dismissed on this
ground. (See Turner v. Seterus, Inc. (2018) 27 Cal. App. 5th 516, 536 [since
“some of [the] predicate claims are valid, the[] Business and Professions Code
section 17200 claim is valid”].)
 
The
demurrer on this ground is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Demurrer to the seventh and ninth causes of action in the Complaint is
sustained.  The demurrer to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and
thirteenth causes of action is overruled. The County
of Los Angeles is granted leave to amend. Plaintiff’s amended complaint shall
be served and filed on or before November 2, 2023.


