  Case Number:  22TRCV01033    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                                         Thursday,
March 7, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 8
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Henry
James Robinson v. The Vons Company, Inc., et al. 
            22TRCV01033
1.      Henry
James Robinson’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Henry
James Robinson’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal is granted.  
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on October 24, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
Plaintiff slipped and fell at Vons. 
 
            Motion
to Vacate Dismissal
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . ..”
 
            Plaintiff
has adequately established that the dismissal was entered due to the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect of Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel
states that the former attorney handling the case and the paralegal both left
the firm. Before leaving, they failed to ensure that the summons was served and
they failed to calendar the May 15, 2023 Order to Show Cause hearing. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s counsel did not attend the hearing resulting in the dismissal of
the action. (Decl., Douglas Younglove, ¶¶ 3-11.) Plaintiff’s counsel
sufficiently shows that the dismissal occurred due to the firm’s neglect.
            Thus,
the motion to vacate the dismissal is granted and the case is restored to the
active calendar.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 