 Case Number:  22TRCV01245    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Thursday,
March 7, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 11
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Edwin De Jesus Castanon v. EAN Holdings, LLC, et al.
            22TRCV01245
1.      Timothy
M. Ghobrial’s, of Downtown LA Law Group, Counsel for Plaintiff Edwin De Jesus
Castanon, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Timothy
M. Ghobrial’s, of Downtown LA Law Group, Counsel for Plaintiff Edwin De Jesus
Castanon, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is granted.
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on November 15, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. On November 17, 2020, Plaintiff was involved in an
auto accident with a vehicle driven by “John Doe.” The vehicle driven by John
Doe was owned and entrusted by EAN Holdings, LLC and EAN Holdings dba
Enterprise Rent A Car. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Motor
Vehicle; 2. General Negligence.
 
Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel
 
Counsel
states, in the declaration, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that
there has been a complete breakdown in the relationship of the parties. The
Court finds that the attorney has filed and served upon the client a
declaration.  The Court also finds that
the attorney has shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as
counsel should be granted and why the attorney brought a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) instead of filing a consent under section 284(1). The
Court finds that the attorney served the proposed order upon the client and all
parties as required by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1).
 
Therefore, the
motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.
 
The attorney
is relieved as counsel of record for the client effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. 
 

Downtown LA Law Group is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s ruling. 