 Case Number:  23TRCV02008    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Thursday, March 7, 2024    
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Damian
Eduardo Sarabia v. Del Amo Hospital, Inc., et al.  
23TRCV02008

1.      Del Amo Hospital, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.      Del Amo Hospital, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Complaint      
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Del Amo Hospital, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Del Amo Hospital, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Complaint is moot, in part, and granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 21, 2023. The only
named Plaintiff is “Damian Eduardo Sarabia, an individual.” Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff makes the following allegation: “Plaintiff, at
all relevant times herein, was a minor male who was a patient/resident at the
Del Amo Behavioral Health System. His date of birth is April 10, 2014. At the
time of the filings (sic) of this Complaint Plaintiff has become an adult.”
(Complaint, ¶ 10.)  As noted above, the
Complaint was filed in June 2023 which would make Plaintiff nine years old. The
age of majority in California is 18.  Plaintiff,
however, also alleges, nonsensically, that he was “an adult” at the “time of
the filings (sic).” (Id.) Plaintiff makes the following allegation: Plaintiff
alleges that he was assaulted, battered, and sexually assaulted and battered by
another patient on two occasions from June 21, 2023 to June 23, 2023.  (Id. at ¶¶ 14-16.)  However, the Complaint was filed on June 21,
2023 purportedly prior to the completion of the alleged assaults. 
 
            Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action for: 1. Common
Law Assault; 2. Common Law Battery; 3. Sexual Battery in Violation of Civil
Code § 1708.5; 4. Negligence; 5. Premises Liability; 6. Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; 7. Negligent Supervision of a Minor; 8. IIED. 
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Defendant set forth meet
and confer declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP §
435.5.  (Decls. Moira S. Brennan.)   
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1)
the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendant demurs to the first through third, sixth, and
eighth causes of action on the grounds that the causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            First Cause of Action for Common Law Assault
            Second Cause of Action for Common Law Battery
            Third Cause of Action for Sexual Battery in
Violation of Civil Code § 1708.5
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the first through third causes of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against demurring Defendant.
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1)
the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or
threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) the
plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the defendant
was about to carry out the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not consent to the
defendant's conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant's conduct
was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's harm.” Carlsen v.
Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.
 
            “The essential elements of a cause of action for battery
are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with
the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching.” So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.
 
            Plaintiff alleges that a fellow patient at Del Amo
Hospital, named Edward Castanon, assaulted, battered, and sexually battered
him. First, and foremost, Plaintiff has not alleged facts to demonstrating that
Edward Castanon is an employee or agent of Defendant. In fact, it appears that
Plaintiff freely admits that he was not an agent by specifically alleging that
he was a fellow patient. Second, even assuming arguendo an agency relationship,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts to demonstrate that the act allegedly committed
by Edward Castanon was within the course and scope of his employment with
Defendant.  An employer may be held
vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the course and
scope of employment.  See, Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Mem.
Hosp. (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.  However, an “employer will not be held liable
for an assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus to
the employee's work.”  Id. at 297.  Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege any
facts to establish that the sexual battery was engendered by Edward Castanon’s employment.
“[A] sexual tort will not be considered engendered by the employment unless its
motivating emotions were fairly attributable to work-related events or
conditions.”  Id. at 301.  Here, there are
no facts alleged that would establish that the assault was triggered by any
aspect of Edward Castanon’s employment.  
 
            Another potential basis for liability against Defendant
would be based on a theory that Defendant ratified the conduct of Edward
Castanon.  See, Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hosp.
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 621.  However,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts to show that Defendant ratified the conduct of Edward
Castanon. “Ratification ... may be established by any circumstantial or direct
evidence demonstrating adoption or approval of the employee's actions by the
corporate agent. [Citations.] Such ratification may be inferred from the fact
that the employer, after being informed of the employee's actions, does not
fully investigate and fails to repudiate the employee's conduct by redressing
the harm done and punishing or discharging the employee.” Id. at 621. 
No such facts have been pled. Plaintiff appears to attempt to allege
facts of ratification in paragraphs 22 and 23.  However, these allegations are sheer
conclusions.
 
            Finally, as to the third cause of action, Defendant also argues
that it cannot be liable because it is not a “person.” However, under the
doctrine of respondeat superior an employer may, under certain circumstances,
be liable for an assault and/or battery committed by an employee in the scope
of his or her employment.
 
            Civ. Code, § 1708.5(a) states:  
“(a) A person commits a
sexual battery who does any of the following: 
(1) Acts with the intent to
cause a harmful or offensive contact with an intimate part of another, and a
sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results.
(2) Acts with the intent to
cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her intimate
part, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly
results.
(3) Acts to cause an
imminent apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a
sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results.”
 
             As noted above, the Complaint fails to allege facts that establish
respondeat superior liability upon Defendant.  In fact, throughout the first through third
causes of action, it appears that Plaintiff is attempting to impose liability
based on the failure to supervise Edward Castanon. This theory may, if properly
alleged, support a cause of action for negligence, but would not support the
intentional torts alleged in the first through third causes of action.
 
            The demurrer to the first through third causes of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Sixth Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to state
a cause of action.
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the
fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach.”  Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086–87 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Plaintiff has freely alleged that the relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendant was one of patient and hospital. There are no
facts, nor any authority presented to establish that such a relationship
creates a fiduciary duty. 
 
            The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Eighth Cause of Action for IIED
 
            The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state
a cause of action.
 
            “A cause of action for IIED requires proof of: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.
 
            Plaintiff has failed to set forth facts to support the
elements of extreme and outrageous conduct, intent or reckless disregard, and
proximate causation. Again, as noted above, the cause of action appears to be
premised upon Defendant’s alleged failure to supervise Edward Castanon. There
are no facts that Defendant acted intentionally or unreasonably knowing that it
would likely cause emotional distress. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Motion to
Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendants move to strike the following items:
 
            1: Page 8, lines 5-6; 2. Page 8, lines 7-13; 3. Page 9,
lines 13-14; 4. Page 9, lines 15-21; 5. Page 10, line 20 – Page 11, line 2; 6. Page
16, lines 1-7; 7. Page 16, lines 13-14. 
 
            As to Items 1 to 6, the motion is moot upon the
sustaining of the demurrer to the first through third and eighth causes of
action.
 
            As to Item 7, the motion is granted with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
            Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
            “(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
            (b) An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant
to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
 
               As to item 7, the motion is granted with 20 days leave
to amend. Plaintiff fails to set forth sufficient specific facts that Defendant
acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally, and/or recklessly to support
Plaintiff’s allegations of punitive damages.  
 
            In addition, to the analysis and ruling on Defendant’s
demurrer and motion to strike the Court also makes the following ruling. 
 
            “Minors lack capacity to sue in their own names. Instead,
litigation must be conducted by a guardian or conservator of the estate or by a
guardian ad litem.”  Safai v. Safai
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 233, 245(internal quotation omitted). Despite
Plaintiff’s contention that he was an adult at the time of the filing of the
Complaint, the date of birth that was specifically alleged in the Complaint indicates
that he would be a minor. The Court also points out the complete uncertainty in
the allegations of the Complaint regarding the date of the incident.  The incident could not have occurred after
the filing date of the Complaint. 
 
             If a First Amended
Complaint is filed, Plaintiff must also resolve these defects. If the defects
above were simply due to typographical errors in the date of birth and date of
incident, then these allegations can be fixed with better proofreading skills.
If, indeed, however, the Plaintiff is a minor, any amended Complaint must be
presented by a guardian ad litem.
 
            In the event that no First Amended Complaint is filed, the
Court sets an OSC re: Striking the Complaint due to lack of capacity of the
minor Plaintiff to proceed with this action for ________________.
 
             Defendant is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 