  Case Number:  21STCV14191    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  B JAMES KAY v. AVIS BUDGET CAR RENTAL, LLC, et al.   Motion for Summary judgment or in  the alternative summary adjudication   Date of Hearing:  September  6, 2024                         Trial Date:  October 28, 2024 Department:   B                                                          Case  No.: 21STCV14191    Moving Party:             Defendant Avis Budget Car Rental,  LLC Responding  Party:       James Kay                                        BACKGROUND   Plaintiff James Kay (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was  involved in a hit and run collision on January 26, 2020, when Pedro Ivan  Jimenez Aguilera (“Aguilera”), driving a car rented through Defendant Avis  Budget Car Rental, LLC (“Defendant”) collided with Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges  that he suffered damages including substantial physical injuries, emotional  injuries, and economic damages.   Plaintiff filed his complaint on April 14, 2021, alleging  causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence (including negligent  entrustment) and (2) general negligence.   Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment or  in the alternative summary adjudication on September 27, 2022. Defendant moves  for summary adjudication on each of the causes of action.   On May 17, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request to  continue the hearing on the motion to August 15, 2023, to allow Plaintiff to  conduct further discovery. On August 15, 2023, the Court again continued the  hearing on the motion to September 30, 2024, to allow Plaintiff to conduct  further discovery.  At the hearing, the  Court placed the parties on notice that there would be no further continuances.   On June 5, 2024, the matter was assigned  to Judge Moskowitz in Department B of the Van Nuys Courthouse East, and the  hearing was advanced to September 6, 2024.   RELIEF REQUESTED   Defendant moves for summary judgment of all causes of action  asserted in the complaint. In the alternative, Defendant moves for summary adjudication  of the following issues: (1) Plaintiff cannot establish Defendant’s vicarious  liability given the Graves Amendment, which bars liability, preempts state law (1st  and 2nd causes of action); (2) Plaintiff cannot establish negligent  entrustment as to Defendant (1st and 2nd causes of  action) due to Plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses; (3) Plaintiff  cannot establish Defendant negligently maintained the vehicle (1st  and 2nd causes of action); and (4) Plaintiff cannot establish Defendant’s  liability based on respondeat superior or agency theories (1st  and 2nd causes of action). (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)     The Court notes that Issues 2-4 each address the three  separate theories of liability asserted against Defendant in the 1st  and 2nd causes of action. However, to grant summary adjudication as  to one theory of liability would not dispose of the cause of action, given  other theories of liability remain. As such, Issues 2-4 are not properly raised  issues for summary adjudication.  (See  C.C.P. §437c(f)(1) [“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.”].)    [Tentative]  Ruling   Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Burden on Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication   In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, the Court must  apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;  (2) determine whether the moving party has met his or her initial burden; and  (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a  triable, material factual issue.  (Hinesley  v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal. App. 4th 289, 294.)  “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving  party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of  material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log  Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for  summary judgment or summary adjudication has met his or her burden of showing  that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more  elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a  complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd.  (p)(2).)   A moving defendant may satisfy the initial burden to show  that one or more elements cannot be established by “presenting evidence that  conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action or by  relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses to show that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence to  establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28  Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)  25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out  the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal. App. 4th 884,  891.) The defendant must present evidence, typically in the form of factually  devoid discovery responses, showing that plaintiff does not have and cannot  reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.)   Unless and until a defendant meets that burden, the  plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer Cause,  Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal. App. 4th 454, 468 [“There is no obligation  on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit unless and until  the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every element . . .  necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a defendant fails to meet  that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if the plaintiff fails to  file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.   On the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden,  the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or  more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code  Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on  allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi  v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,  467.)        Evidentiary Objections   Plaintiff’s August 23, 2024 objection to the entirety of the  Declaration of Jeanne Motosko is overruled.    Defendant’s August 30, 2024 objections Nos. 1 and 2 are  overruled.   Summary of Allegations   Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that, on  January 26, 2020, Plaintiff was involved in a hit and run collision when  Aguilar, driving a vehicle rented through Defendant, recklessly collided with  the rear of Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing Plaintiff’s vehicle to collide with  the highway railing. Plaintiff alleges this collision caused significant  physical injuries, emotional injuries, and economic damages.   Plaintiff alleges Defendant negligently  entrusted Aguilar with its rental vehicle, thereby resulting in injury to  Plaintiff.   Defendant’s Vicarious Liability   Applicability of the Graves Amendment   Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s first and second causes of  action, based upon vicarious liability as the owner of the vehicle, must fail  pursuant to 49 USC § 30106 (the “Graves Amendment” or “Graves”). The Graves  Amendment states in relevant part:   “An owner of a  motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person (or an affiliate of  the owner) shall not be liable under the law of any State or political  subdivision thereof, by reason of being the owner of the vehicle (or an  affiliate of the owner), for harm to persons or property that results or arises  out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of  the rental or lease, if--   (1) the owner  (or an affiliate of the owner) is engaged in the trade or business of renting  or leasing motor vehicles; ¿and   (2) there is  no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an affiliate  of the owner).” (49 USC § 30106(a) – 49 USC § 30106(a)(2).)”   Graves generally preempts all state statutory  and common law to the extent those laws hold owners in the business of renting  or leasing motor vehicles vicariously liable for the negligence of drivers,  except when there is negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the  owner. (29 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 223.) However, not all state statutes are preempted.   Financial Responsibility Laws   Within the Graves Amendment are exceptions to  Federal law preemption. Titled “Financial Responsibility Laws” (“FRLs”), Graves  does not supersede state laws regarding insurance requirements. The pertinent  portion reads:   “Nothing in  this section supersedes the law of any State or political subdivision thereof—   (1) imposing  financial responsibility or insurance standards on the owner of a motor vehicle  for the privilege of registering and operating a motor vehicle; or   (2) imposing  liability on business entities engaged in the trade or business of renting or  leasing motor vehicles for failure to meet the financial responsibility or  liability insurance requirements under State law.” (49 U.S.C. § 30106(b) – 49  U.S.C. § 30106(b)(2), also known as the “Savings Clause”.)     The parties  disagree as to whether the Graves Amendment preempts California Vehicle Code §§  16020, 17150, and 17151.   As both parties note, there is little case  law within California that directly addresses whether VEH §§ 16020, 17150 and  17151 are preempted by the Graves Amendment. Therefore, the Court may look to  persuasive case law elsewhere, in addition to the cannons of statutory  construction. If statutory language permits more than one reasonable  interpretation Courts may consider the statute’s purpose, legislative history  and public policy. However, If the language of a statute is clear, courts must  generally follow its plain meaning unless a literal interpretation would result  in absurd consequences the legislature did not intend.  (In re N.R. (2023) 15 Cal.5th 520.)         First, we look to case law. Graves does not  define what constitutes a financial responsibility law. However, courts in  other states have interpreted 49 U.S.C. § 30106(a) – 49 U.S.C. § 30106(a)(2),  otherwise known as the “Savings Clause”, to mean that laws imposing insurance  standards on vehicle owners and business entities in the trade of renting vehicles  are not preempted.     For example, in an Eleventh Circuit case from  Florida, a rental car company filed a summary judgment motion arguing that the  Graves Amendment preempted the wrongful death cause of action the plaintiffs  had brought against the rental car company. (Garcia v. Vanguard Car Rental  USA, Inc. (2008) 540 F.3d 1242. (“Garcia”.) The Eleventh Circuit  affirmed the lower court’s grant of summary judgment in favor of the rental car  company stating that  not only does Graves preempt tort liability, but that the term “financial  responsibility law” denotes state laws which impose insurance-like requirements  on owners or operators of vehicles. (Garcia, supra, at 1247.)   In 2019, the Supreme Court of Rhode Island  ruled similarly when a married couple brought a negligence action against  several defendants, including the driver who struck them, and the rental car  company that leased the vehicle to the driver. (Puerini v. LaPierre  (2019) 208 A.3d 1157, 1160. “Puerini”.) Rhode Island’s Supreme Court  ruled that Graves preempted liability as to negligence, but that the rental  company could still be held liable for failing to meet state financial  responsibility requirements. (Puerini, supra at 1165.)   Finally, in Subrogation Division Inc. v.  Brown (2020) 446 F.Supp.3d 542 (“Brown”), the District Court  followed the lead of Garcia and Puerini, stating that the rental  car company being sued could only be held liable to the extent it did not carry  the required amount of insurance. However, to the extent that South Dakota law  attempted to hold the rental car company liable for tort, it would be preempted  by Graves. (Brown, supra, at 551-552.)      Simply put, both vehicle owners and rental  car companies must abide by state laws requiring insurance. However, Graves  preempts any state law that extends tort liability from a defendant driver to a  rental car company. Therefore, upon a proper showing of evidence, the Grave  Amendment is applicable to Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant.   Defendant must first provide evidence that they  are engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor vehicles. (49  USC § 30106(a)(1).) Response to Statement of Separate Facts (“R-SSF”) No. 1 states  that “PV Holding Corp. is the nominee title holder to the fleet of vehicles  rented to the general public pursuant to rental agreements through Avis Rent a  Car System, LLC.” Defendant is an affiliate owner of the rental vehicle. (R-SSF  No. 16). The parties do not dispute this fact. (Ibid.) Therefore, 49 USC  § 30106(a)(1) is satisfied.   Defendant  Meets Its Initial Burden   Next,  Defendant must show that it did not engage in negligence or criminal wrongdoing  when renting the vehicle at issue. (49 USC § 30106(a)(2).) VEH §§ 14604 and 14608  require rental car agencies to ensure the facial validity of a rental  customer’s driver’s license before entrusting the car to the renter. Defendant  asserts that it requires customers to provide a facially valid driver’s license  before renting the vehicle. (Motosko Decl. ¶ 4). Defendant then confirms the  validity of the renter’s license by one of two ways: (1) comparing the renter’s  signature to the signature on the presented driver’s license, or (2) comparing  the photograph on the presented driver’s license to the renter’s appearance. (Ibid.  at ¶ 5). Defendant contends that this policy was complied with since the rental  agreement, purportedly signed by Aguilar, provides the last four digits of  Aguilar’s driver’s license. (Ibid. at ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. A and B). Defendant  also provides maintenance reports that the vehicle was properly maintained as  of January 26, 2020. (Ibid. At ¶¶ 12-13, Ex. A and E). Therefore,  Defendant provides evidence that it did not engage in negligence or criminal  wrongdoing when renting to Aguilar and meets its initial burden for summary  judgment. (49 USC § 30106(a)(2).)   Plaintiff’s Opposition   Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s Motion on the grounds that  there are triable issues of material fact regarding Defendant’s negligent  entrustment. (Oppos. pp. 11-12). Plaintiff argues that Jeanne Motosko’s  declaration, through which Defendant provides their evidence of compliance with  the California Vehicle Code, is wholly inadmissible as Motosko “confirmed in  deposition, without limitation, that she had no role in creating her  declaration and performed no investigation to confirm the accuracy of the  documents attached to the same.” (Singer Decl. ¶ 8). The Court finds this claim  to be without merit. Motosko confirmed she signed the declaration under penalty  of perjury under the laws of California on January 22, 2022. (Motosko Depo.  13:21). While Motosko may not have performed an in-depth investigation of the  documents attached to her declaration, she confirmed that she reviewed the  documents and they complied with her knowledge of standard business practices in  her role as a regional insurance risk manager for Defendant. (Ibid. at  12:37). Therefore, Motosko’s declaration was properly admitted as evidence by  the Defendant.   Plaintiff also presents as evidence that the deposition of  Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable, Lucky Enearu, testified that “all that  matters [in facially validating a renter’s driver’s license] is that the credit  card given approves the transaction after the prospective renter has already  signed the rental contract.” (Singer Decl. ¶ 15). The Court finds that this  representation mischaracterizes Enearu’s testimony. Instead, the Court finds  that nothing in Enearu’s testimony contradicts the evidence which Defendant  provided. Enearu even confirmed that “[employees] look at the [ID] booklet and  see what is expected on the driver’s license [for that jurisdiction]. If it’s  valid, you get the credit card, look at it to see if it’s the same person. If  it’s the same person, you proceed. (Enearu Depo. 11:48). Furthermore, Enerau  states that Defendant’s employees are trained to “look at the license before  generat[ing] the contract.” (Ibid. at 11:35). This testimony  corroborates the evidence that Defendant provided to support their Motion.   Plaintiff provides no other evidence  that Defendant is liable due to negligence under the Graves Amendment.  Therefore, Plaintiff has not met his burden and the Court finds no triable  issue of fact regarding Defendant’s vicarious liability.   Defendant’s motion for summary judgment  is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.