 Case Number:  21STCV33435    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  B MARC MARINO V. WARNER BROS.
TRANSPORTATION, ET AL.
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date of Hearing:  September
6, 2024                         Trial
Date:       October 17, 2024
Department:       B                                                      Case No.:         21STCV33435
 
Moving Party:             Defendants
WB Studios Enterprises, Inc. and Michael Borreson
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff
Marc Marino 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 10, 2021, Plaintiff Marc
Marino (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Warner Bros.
Transportation, Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., WarnerMedia Studios, Inc.,
Michael Borreson (“Borreson”), and DOES 1 to 20, inclusive (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2)
motor vehicle. 
 
On September 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed
an Amendment to Complaint which identified Chuck Lorre Productions, Inc. as Doe
1. 
 
On October 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint which identified WB Studio Enterprises, Inc. (“WB
Studio”) as Doe 2. 
 
On November 12, 2021, Defendants
Borreson and WB Studio filed a joint Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On March 28, 2023, Defendants Borreson
and WB Studio filed a Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication. 
 
On April 25, 2023, American Home
Assurance Company filed a Complaint-in-Intervention against Defendants alleging
causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence. 
 
On February 21, 2024, Defendants
Borreson and WB Studio (“Moving Defendants”) filed and served the instant Amended
Motion for Summary Judgment or, alternatively, Summary Adjudication (the
“Motion”). Moving Defendants seek summary judgment on the grounds that there
are no triable issues of material fact as to Plaintiff’s claims against Moving
Defendants. Alternatively, if summary judgment cannot be granted, Moving
Defendants move for summary adjudication on four separate issues. (Not. of Mot.
at p. 2.) 
 
On June 7, 2024, this action was
reassigned from the Honorable Michelle C. Kim to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz
sitting in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East effective June 24, 2024. 
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed and
served an opposition to the Motion, to which Moving Defendants replied on
August 30, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Court DENIES
Defendants WB Studio Enterprises, Inc. and Michael Borreson’s Amended Motion
for Summary Judgment or, alternatively, Motion for Summary Adjudication (the
“Motion”).   
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether
an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67.) A defendant moving
for summary judgment “may rely on factually devoid discovery responses to shift
the burden of proof . . . .” (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 573, 590.) 
“As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense.” (Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) “Alternatively, the
moving defendant may show by competent proofs (typically derived from
discovery) that the plaintiff lacks the evidence to prove a necessary
fact.” (Browne v. Turner Construction Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1334,
1339-40, emphasis in original.) “In this method . . . the defendant need not
affirmatively prove anything about what actually occurred; it is enough to show
that there is insufficient evidence of what occurred, or insufficient evidence
favorable to the plaintiff, to establish a necessary element of the cause of
action. Either way, if the defendant presents sufficient evidence to meet this
threshold burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action . . . .”
(Id. at p. 1340.) 
Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Responsive evidence that gives
rise to no more than mere speculation cannot be regarded as substantial and is
insufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact. (Ibid.) A
plaintiff cannot oppose a motion for summary judgment based on “speculation,
conjecture, imagination, or guess work.” (Brown v. Ransweiler (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 516, 525, citation omitted, internal quotations omitted.) 
In the context of a
motion for summary judgment, a cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or more
of the elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even
if that element is separately pleaded; or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(o)(1)-(2).) With respect to a motion for summary judgment “if it is not
set forth in the separate statement, it does not exist.”  (San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308,
313.) “Motions for summary adjudication are procedurally identical to motions
for summary judgment.” (Dunn v. County of Santa Barbara (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1281, 1290.) The summary judgment procedure is drastic and is to be
used with caution. (Snider v. Snider (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 741, 750.) 
Pertinent Allegations of
the Complaint
The Court finds it
necessary to briefly set forth the pertinent allegations of the Complaint. The
Complaint is set forth on a Form PLD-PI-001. The Complaint alleges the
following: On November 17, 2020, at the Paramount Studios lot, close to the Van
Ness Avenue point of entry, by the Mechanical Building, Defendants “negligently
operated, drove, maintained, repaired, and controlled their company truck so as
to cause that truck to be driven dangerously close to Plaintiff, proximately
and legally causing Plaintiff to sustain serious injuries and damages in the
process of avoiding being struck by Defendant’s truck.” (Complaint at p. 4.)
According to Plaintiff, at the time of the accident, he was operating a pallet
jack. (Id.) Plaintiff was backing it away from the Mechanical building
at or about the set lighting and grip loading dock area. (Id.) At that
time, Defendants drove a truck through the security kiosk point of entry by Van
Ness Avenue. (Id.) As Defendants’ truck rounded a corner on its way to
the special effects and/or wood molding departments, Defendants’ truck came
dangerously close to hitting Plaintiff’s person. (Id.) In avoiding the
truck, by stepping forward and away from the path of the truck, Plaintiff’s
pallet jack came into contact with and injured Plaintiff’s left foot. (Id.)

 
Evidentiary Objections
The Court OVERRULES
Moving Defendants’ evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
and 10 to the declaration of Brad P. Avrit submitted in opposition to the
Motion. 
The Court OVERRULES
Moving Defendants’ evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 to
the declaration of Kuba Glaze submitted in opposition to the Motion. 
Initially, the Court
notes that Plaintiff raises numerous evidentiary objections in his separate
statement submitted in opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff, however, did not
file and serve separate written objections. Plaintiff’s purported evidentiary
objections—articulated in his separate statement opposing the Motion—are
procedurally improper and will not be considered because “[a]ll written
objections must be served and filed separately from the other papers . . . in
opposition to the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354(b).) The Court
therefore OVERRULES all of the evidentiary objections set forth in Plaintiff’s
separate statement in opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff did not file
evidentiary objections in compliance with California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1354. 
Moving Defendants’
Defective Request for Judicial Notice
In the moving papers,
Moving Defendants reference a request for judicial notice. However, no request
for judicial notice was filed with the Motion. A request for judicial notice
“must be made by [a] separate document . . . .” (Superior Court of California,
County of Los Angeles, Court Rules, Rule 3.8.) Here, Moving Defendants did not
file a separate document requesting judicial notice. Thus, the Court finds that
Moving Defendants’ request for judicial notice is DENIED as it is procedurally
improper. 
Defects In Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement
Although not raised as
an issue by Moving Defendants in the reply brief, the Court notes that
Plaintiff’s separate statement in opposition to the Motion is procedurally
defective. 
“The opposition papers shall include a separate statement that responds
to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed,
indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are
undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).) “The statement shall also set
forth plainly and concisely any another material facts the opposing party
contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be
disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure
to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for granting the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).) A party opposing a motion for summary judgment must
state unequivocally whether a fact is disputed or undisputed. (Collins v.
Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 64, 70.) 
Here, there are numerous instances in Plaintiff’s separate statement
where he does not unequivocally state that a fact is disputed or undisputed.
For instance, in response to Moving Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 2
and 9, Plaintiff raises objections and states that such fact is “[d]isputed in part.”
(See Plaintiff’s Separate Statement at pp. 3, 5.) Partially disputing a fact is
not procedurally proper under Collins v. Hertz Corp., supra, 144
Cal.App.4th 64, 70. Also, there are instances where Plaintiff purports to
dispute a fact but does not cite to any supporting evidence. (See Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement at UMF Nos. 11, 12, 23.) 
Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s separate statement in opposition
to the Motion is procedurally deficient. Due to such defects, the Court will
deem Moving Defendant’s UMF Nos. 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 11, 12, 19, 20, 23, 27, 28, and
29 as undisputed given that Plaintiff’s responses thereto are procedurally
deficient as they either: fail to cite to evidence; fail to unequivocally
dispute such material fact; or, merely set forth evidentiary objections without
stating whether such material fact is disputed or undisputed. 
Procedural Defects in
Moving Defendants’ Separate Statement 
“If made in the
alternative, a motion for summary adjudication may make reference to and depend
on the same evidence submitted in support of the summary judgment motion.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(b).) “If summary adjudication is sought,
whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the
specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of
duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated,
verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1350(b).) 
Moving Defendants seek
summary adjudication on the following four issues: (1) Defendant Borreson
cannot be held liable for any damages because Plaintiff cannot prove that
Defendant Borreson breached any duty to Plaintiff thus preventing Plaintiff
from establishing his negligence cause of action; (2) Defendant Borreson cannot
be held liable for any damages alleged by Plaintiff as Plaintiff cannot prove
that any alleged breach of duty owed by Defendant Borreson was a proximate or
legal cause of the injuries suffered by him thus preventing Plaintiff from
establishing a negligence cause of action; (3) Defendant Borreson cannot be
liable for any damages alleged by Plaintiff as Plaintiff cannot prove that
Defendant Borreson’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
injury thus preventing Plaintiff from establishing his negligence; and (4)
Defendant WB Studio cannot be held liable for any damages alleged by Plaintiff
as Defendant WB Studio’s liability is solely vicarious in nature and Plaintiff
cannot establish negligence on behalf of Defendant Borreson. 
Here, Moving Defendants’
separate statement only sets forth the issue of Defendant Borreson not being
held liable for any damages because Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendant
Borreson breached any duty owed to Plaintiff. Moving Defendants’ separate
statement, however, does not set forth issues number two, three, and four
articulated in the notice of motion. The Court therefore finds that Moving
Defendants’ separate statement is not in compliance with Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1350(b). The Court assumes that—by not specifically articulating issues
two, three, and four in the separate statement—Moving Defendants are relying on
the same evidence to support all the issues on which summary adjudication is
sought.
The Court will neither
grant nor deny the Motion on the grounds of the parties’ respective defective
separate statements. However, the Court reminds the parties of the need to
present procedurally proper separate statements in compliance with the California
Rules of Court. 
Issue No.1: First Cause
of Action for Negligence and Second Cause of Action for Motor Vehicle[1]
  
Moving Defendants
contend that they are entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff cannot
prove the requisite elements of his claim. Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
claims fail because: (1) Plaintiff has no admissible evidence that Defendant
Borreson breached any duty and therefore Defendant WB Studio cannot be held
vicariously liable; and (2) Plaintiff has no admissible evidence on the issue
of causation and that Defendant Borreson caused Plaintiff any damage. 
“To succeed in a negligence action, a plaintiff must show
the following: (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty; (2) the
defendant breached the duty; and (3) the breach proximately or legally caused
the plaintiff’s damages or injuries.” (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 654, 662.) A person is “required to exercise the care that a person
of ordinary prudence would exercise under the circumstances.” (Polk v. City
of Los Angeles (1945) 26 Cal.2d 519, 525.) “Hence, the care used must be
commensurate with and proportionate to that danger.” (Ibid.) “The amount
of ordinary care exercised by the driver of any power-propelled conveyance
should be measured by the probable perils to be encountered.” (Saphire v.
Los Angeles Transit Lines (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 880, 883.) “[A]n employer is
vicariously liable for the torts of its employees committed within the scope of
the employment.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995)
12 Cal.4th 291, 296.) 
“Where there are multiple causal agents that arguably
contribute to an injury or harm, courts apply the substantial factor test . . .
which subsumes traditional ‘but for’ causation.” (TRC Operating Company,
Inc. v. Chevron USA, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 1040, 1099.) “A
defendant’s negligent conduct may combine with another to cause harm; if a
defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s
harm, then the defendant is responsible for the harm; a defendant cannot avoid
responsibility just because some other person, condition, or event was also a
substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm; but conduct is not a
substantial factor in causing harm if the same harm would have occurred without
that conduct.” (Ibid., emphasis added.) “[W]here a defendant’s
negligence is a concurring cause of an injury, the law regards it as a legal
cause of the injury, regardless of the extent to which it contributes to the
injury.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
“[B]reach of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury.
If the circumstances permit a reasonable doubt whether the defendant’s conduct
violates the standard of due care, the doubt must be resolved by the jury as an
issue of fact rather than of law by the court.” (Nichols v. Keller (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 1672, 1687.) “Like breach of duty, causation also is ordinarily
a question of fact which cannot be resolved by summary judgment. The issue of
causation may be decided as a question of law only if, under undisputable
facts, there is no room for a reasonable difference of opinion.” (Ibid.)

The Undisputed Material
Facts and Moving Defendants’ Evidence
Moving Defendants
present the following undisputed material facts: On November 17, 2020,
Plaintiff was working on Avenue T of the Paramount Studios lot located at 5555
Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90038. (Moving Defendants’ Separate Statement
of Undisputed Facts (MDSSF) at No. 1.) Due to COVID compliance rules on the
Paramount Studios Lot, both sides of Avenue T were lined with equipment and
various trailers. (MDSSF at No. 2.) Plaintiff was operating a motorized pallet
jack to back out a bin of cables from the Set Lighting/Grip Dock at
approximately 7:40 a.m. (MDSSF at No. 3.) Paramount Lot gate records indicate
that Defendant Borreson passed through the Van Ness Gate at 7:39:57 a.m. (MDSSF
at No. 4.) Rather than apprise lot security of the incident, Plaintiff sought
help from the building nearest to him and was transported to first aid at
approximately 7:45 a.m. (MDSSF at No. 8.) Although Plaintiff had his back to
Avenue T and only saw the truck when he looked over his left shoulder,
Plaintiff testified at his deposition that he believed Defendant Borreson to be
traveling between 12-15 miles per hour when he stepped out of the way of the
subject vehicle. (MDSSF at No. 9.) 
Moving Defendants
present the further undisputed facts that: Moving Defendants propounded
extensive written discovery to Plaintiff and, rather than provide actual facts
supporting the contentions raised in the Complaint, Plaintiff repeated the same
statement for every question addressing the mechanism of injury. (MDSSF at Nos.
11-12.) Plaintiff indicated that he was using a motorized pallet jack to back
out of a bin of cables from the Set Lighting/Grip Dock when, just prior,
Defendant Borreson entered the Paramount lot at the Van Ness Boulevard Entrance
and he was driving a Warner Bros. stakebed truck. (MDSSF at No. 12.) To avoid
being hit by the truck, Plaintiff stepped out of the way of the truck’s path of
travel, and, in the process, the pallet jack ended up on top of Plaintiff’s
foot and Defendant Borreson continued to drive to his destination without
stopping the truck. (MDSSF at No. 12.) Plaintiff indicated that Paramount’s
employees can be contacted through the studio. (MDSSF at No. 12.) Defendant
Borreson testified that the speed limit on the Paramount Lot is 8 miles per
hour. (MDSSF at No. 18.) Defendant Borreson testified that he drives at a slow
speed because he is aware that the activity on the studio lot requires extra
care. (MDSSF at No. 19.) Defendant Borreson testified that he has no specific
recollection of the day, but he believes he was driving slowly, as he does not
drive more than two to three miles per hour at that place on the Paramount lot.
(MDSSF at No. 20.) Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence. (MDSSF at No. 21.) 
Moving Defendants
present evidence that at approximately the same time Defendant Borreson passed
through the Van Ness Gate, Plaintiff was walking backwards, pulling his load of
electrical cables on the pallet jack, and was approximately four feet into Avenue
T. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. G at pp. 19:15-20:18.) Plaintiff was about eight
feet back from pulling the pallet from in front of the equipment pile when he
looked to his left and noticed a truck that had just come around the corner,
and the truck was coming right at him. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. G at pp.
19:15-20:18.) Plaintiff testified that he had stepped forward underneath the
already-moving backwards Big Joe pallet to avoid being hit. (Moving Defendants’
Ex. G at pp. 19:15-20:18.) The Big Joe came up, landed, and stopped on his left
foot as he leaned on the handle. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. G at p. 20:10-11.) As
Plaintiff waited for the truck to pass behind him, he leaned back, reengaged
the Big Joe to get it off his foot, and he realized that his shoe had been
ripped off. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. G at p. 20:10-18.) Plaintiff testified that
he was not wearing headphones at the time of the incident, there was no music playing
in the background, and there were no general loud noises. (Moving Defendants’
Ex. G. at p. 48:6-12.) The safety/instruction manual for the pallet jack
operated by Plaintiff states that the operator should always look in the
direction of travel. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. M.) Defendant Borreson declares
that on the date of the incident, he knew the speed limit to be eight miles per
hour on the Paramount lot. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. N at ¶ 2.) Defendant
Borreson does not know Plaintiff and does not know what he looks like. (Moving
Defendants’ Ex. P at pp. 14:23-15:1.) Defendant Borreson does not recall how
fast he was driving the stakebed truck after he entered through the security
kiosk. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. P at p. 41:4-22.) Defendant Borreson testified
that he does not drive more than two to three miles per hour at the location
where the incident occurred. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. P at pp. 41:9-42:18.) In
discovery, Plaintiff produced text messages he sent to management regarding his
belief that drivers drove recklessly on the lot. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. K.) Moving
Defendants also present evidence that Defendant Borreson does not exceed the
speed limit at the location where the incident occurred, and that Defendant
Borreson has never seen Plaintiff and does not know what he looks like. (Moving
Defendants’ Ex. P at pp. 14:23-15:1.) 
The Court finds that
Moving Defendants have presented evidence to show that Defendant Borreson was
driving slowly through the Paramount lot and that the Big Joe pallet is what
caused Plaintiff’s injuries and not any action of Defendant Borreson. Thus, the
Court finds that Moving Defendants have shown that there is no triable issue of
fact on the issues of breach and causation. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff
to show a triable issue of fact. 
Plaintiff’s Evidence
Plaintiff presents
evidence that he was only about four to five feet into the street when he was
almost struck by Defendant Borreson. (Plaintiff’s Ex. A at pp. 29:22-30:2.)
When he complained to management about the belief that drivers were driving
recklessly, it was in the context of the driver who almost hit him on November
17, 2020. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. K.) Plaintiff points to evidence that Defendant
Borreson does not know the speed at which he was driving, and that Plaintiff
testified that Defendant Borreson was driving 12-15 miles per hour at the time
of the incident. (Plaintiffs’ Ex. A at pp. 23:24-24:3; Ex. B at p. 41:4-15.) Plaintiff
points to evidence that he did identify witnesses who support his contentions.
(Moving Defendants’ Ex. E at No. 128.) Plaintiff presents evidence that he was
injured when he had to avoid Defendant Borreson, who was driving a truck that
was coming right at him. (Plaintiff’s Ex. A at p. 20:1-18.) Plaintiff testified
at deposition that he stepped forward with his left foot to get out of the way
of the truck, which caused his foot to end up under the pallet. (Plaintiff’s
Ex. A at p. 35:10-20.) Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendant Borreson was
driving a white stakebed truck on the day of the incident. (Plaintiff’s Ex. B
at p. 30:15-22.) 
Plaintiff presents the
declaration of Brad P. Avrit, PE, who is a civil engineer. (Plaintiff’s Ex. G
at ¶ 2.) Mr. Avrit sets forth his qualifications, education, experience, and
the basis for his opinions. (Plaintiff’s Ex. G at ¶¶ 2-8.) Mr. Avrit declares
that Defendant Borreson fell below the standard of care for safely operating a
motor vehicle. (Id., ¶ 12.) Mr. Avrit states that Defendant Borreson
should have reduced his speed while traveling through the lot. (Id., ¶
12.) Mr. Avrit states that Plaintiff was acting in a reasonable manner when the
incident occurred. (Id., ¶ 13.) Mr. Avrit states that there was between
two to sixteen seconds of reaction time from the location where Plaintiff and
Defendant Borreson would have been visible to each other, which would have
allowed sufficient time for Defendant Borreson to react to a pedestrian in his
intended path of travel. (Id., ¶ 14.) 

Plaintiff also presents
the declaration of Kuba Glazek, PhD. (Plaintiff’s Ex. H.) Mr. Glazek sets forth
his qualifications, training, and experience in psychology. (Id., ¶¶
2-6.) Mr. Glazek sets forth the basis for his expert opinion. (Id., ¶¶
8-9.) Mr. Glazek states that, in his opinion, Plaintiff was acting in a
reasonable manner and was not demonstrating a lack of situational awareness or
due diligence. (Id., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff saw the truck prior to the
incident and stopped in time to avoid being struck by it and the subject pallet
jack appears to have functioned as intended because it came to stop when
Plaintiff leaned on the handle. (Id., ¶ 13.) Mr. Glazek attests that
Defendant Borreson failed to detect Plaintiff despite Plaintiff being in a
location relevant to Defendant Borreson’s path of travel. (Id., ¶ 14.) 
Analysis 
Initially, the Court
will address some misrepresentations of evidence advanced by Moving Defendants.
Although Moving Defendants contend in their separate statement that Plaintiff
admitted to violating the manufacturers’ instructions regarding use of the
pallet jack (MDSSF at No. 14), the testimony cited by Moving Defendants does not
represent such an admission by Plaintiff. (MDSSF at No. 14.) Plaintiff also did
not testify at deposition that he attended multiple safety classes on how to
use the jack or that he has used a similar jack for decades. (MDSSF at No. 15;
Moving Defendants’ Ex. L.) Moreover, the safety/instruction manual does not
state that the pallet jack should always be pulled as Moving Defendants contend.
(MDSSF at No. 16; Moving Defendants’ Ex. M.) Further, Moving Defendant’s
Exhibit P does not stand for the proposition that Moving Defendants advance,
namely that Defendant Borreson has established that he abided by all rules and
regulations of the Paramount lot. (MDSSF at No. 30; Moving Defendants’ Ex. P.) 
The Court also rejects
Moving Defendants’ contention that Plaintiff has no evidence to support his
claims against Defendant Borreson. Plaintiff has provided Moving Defendants
with the names of pertinent witnesses with information regarding the incident and
his treatment related thereto. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. C, E.) Plaintiff has
provided Moving Defendants with facts to support his contention that he was
subject to a near-collision due to the actions of Defendant Borreson. (Moving
Defendants’ Ex. C; Moving Defendants’ Ex. E at No. 127.) 
The Court does not find
that Plaintiff’s discovery responses are factually devoid, and the Court finds
that Moving Defendants’ reliance on Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra,
31 Cal.App.4th 573, 580 is inapposite because such case involved conclusory
responses to form interrogatories. Moving Defendants’ reliance on Andrews v.
Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96 is also inapposite as such
case involved a plaintiff having no evidence of exposure to asbestos based on
responses to special interrogatories. (Andrews, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th 96, 104.) Here, however, Plaintiff has presented expert
declarations attesting to the negligence of Defendant Borreson and the Court
finds that Plaintiff has set forth facts surrounding the incident giving rise
to the Complaint. (Moving Defendants’ Ex. E at No. 127.) 
The Court finds that
there is a triable issue of material fact on the issues of breach and
causation. Plaintiff has presented evidence that: he was properly operating the
pallet; Defendant Borreson was driving over the speed limit; Defendant Borreson
did not act reasonably and did not conform to the standard of care; and
Defendant Borreson nearly struck Plaintiff with his truck. While the pallet was
the ultimate cause of Plaintiff’s foot injury, the Court finds that there is a
triable issue of fact as to whether Defendant Borreson’s actions were a
substantial factor in Plaintiff sustaining such an injury. Liberally construing
the evidence presented by Plaintiff, there is a factual dispute as to whether:
(1) Defendant Borreson breached his duty of care in his operation of the
stakebed truck; and (2) the actions of Defendant Borreson were the proximate
and legal cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. Given that there are issues of fact as
to breach and causation, such issues are not appropriate for determination on
summary judgment. It follows that there is an issue of fact as to whether
Defendant Borreson was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. Further,
due to issues of fact as to breach and causation concerning Defendant Borreson,
the Court finds that there exists a triable issue of fact concerning the
vicarious liability of Defendant WB Studios. 
Issue No. 2: Tertiary
Arguments 
As a tertiary argument, Moving Defendants contend that
Plaintiff has not established that he acted reasonably under the circumstances
and therefore they cannot be liable for Plaintiff’s injuries. “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully of by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) The Court references its recitation
of the parties’ evidence from above and incorporates it herein. The Court
rejects such an argument as Plaintiff has presented admissible evidence showing
the reasonableness of his actions. 
Next, Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
designated work area put him in a dangerous position, which led to an open and
obvious harm. (Motion at pp. 26-30.) “Foreseeability of harm is typically
absent when a dangerous condition is open and obvious.” (Jacob v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447.) “[I]f a
danger is so open and obvious that a person could reasonably be expected to see
it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner is under no
further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.” (Ibid.) “In that
situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to assume others will
perceive the obvious and take action to avoid the dangerous condition.” (Ibid.)

The Court finds that Moving Defendants’ citation to Jacob,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th 438 is inapposite as such case involved a
condition where a child fell into an empty pool while his parents were viewing
a parcel of residential property as potential buyers. Here, based on the
pleadings, the issue is Defendant Borreson’s negligent driving and not the
worksite conditions as Moving Defendants contend. (Motion at p. 19:19-23.) The
Court fails to see how the specific driving propensities of Defendant Borreson
were ‘open and obvious’ to Plaintiff. Thus, the Court rejects Moving
Defendants’ argument on such a point. 
In sum, there are triable issues of fact which preclude
summary judgment and summary adjudication. 
Thus, summary judgment
is DENIED. 
 
It follows that summary
adjudication is inappropriate as to issues number 1, 2, and 3 concerning
whether Defendant Borreson breached a duty, caused Plaintiff’s injuries, and
was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. The Court therefore
DENIES summary adjudication on issues number 1, 2, and 3 in Moving Defendant’s
Notice of Motion. 
The Court also DENIES
summary adjudication as to issue number 4 in the Notice of Motion as there is a
triable issue of fact as to the vicarious liability of Defendant WB Studio. 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion
is DENIED in its entirety.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 


