 Case Number:  23TRCV00354    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Thursday,
May 30, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 15
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Maria Fernanda Bueno Roldan, et al. v.
Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona, et al.
            23TRCV00354
1.      Maria
Fernanda Bueno Roldan, et al.’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Maria Fernanda Bueno Roldan, et
al.’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is granted.  
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on February 8, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff Maria Fernanda Bueno Roldan was working at Target
in the loading area when defendant Kevin Sullivan, acting in the course and
scope of employment for Swift Transportation, negligently caused a food pallet
to fall onto Plaintiff. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1.
Negligence; 2. Loss of Consortium.
 
Objections
 
Defendants’ objections are overruled. The objections
to the “motion” and “[P]roposed First Amended Complaint” are improper as these
filings are not evidence. The objections to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the
declaration of Tyler J. Barnett are overruled.
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to amend to file a First
Amended Complaint to add allegations and a prayer for punitive damages.  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiffs adequately complied with Rule 3.1324(a). (Decl.,
Tyler J. Barnett, ¶ 7).  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiffs provided a declaration adequately meeting
elements (1) to (4) above. (Decl., Tyler J. Barnett, ¶¶ 3-7.)   
 
Defendants’ arguments in opposition are unavailing.
Defendants’ arguments mostly consist of contending that the newly proposed allegations
are insufficient to state a claim for punitive damages. However, when reviewing a motion for leave to
amend, the Court will usually not evaluate the viability or merits of the
pleading. The preferable practice is to test the legal sufficiency of the
proposed pleading with a proper motion or demurrer. See, Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (stating that, in
the context of analyzing a motion for leave to amend a pleading, that “the
preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to
test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or
other appropriate proceedings.”) 
 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs have unduly
delayed which caused Defendants prejudicial detriment. However, Plaintiffs have
adequately explained that new facts were uncovered in discovery, from October
2023 to March 2024, that would provide a basis to state a claim for punitive
damages. (Decl., Barnett, ¶¶ 3-5.)  As
noted above, if the claim for damages cannot be well stated by the Plaintiffs, then
Defendants will have the opportunity to challenge the claim for damages through
the proper procedural mechanisms. In addition, there is no prejudice by any
purported delay because the trial date is on February 25, 2025, and there is
sufficient time for all parties to conduct discovery as to the newly proposed claim.
 
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint is granted. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve the First Amended
Complaint within three days.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 