 Case Number:  23TRCV02121    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Thursday, May 30, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 16
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Addie Richburg v. American Airlines,
Inc., et al.
            23TRCV02127
1.      Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel Further Responses from
Defendant Far East Transportation LLC to Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses from Defendant Far East Transportation LLC to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions is moot,
in part, and granted, in part.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 30, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff fell from a wheelchair because
Defendants failed to ensure safe transport from the airport terminal to the
parking garage. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Negligence
2. Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision 3. Premises Liability.
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an
inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party
believes the responding party responded inadequately, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c).)    
 
Meet and
Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth a meet
and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Artur
Aziev, ¶¶ 4-8.)
 
Motion to
Compel 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is moot
because Defendant served further responses on April 26, 2024.
 
Request for Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is granted. 
 
Further
responses were only served after Plaintiff incurred the time and expense to
file the motion to compel. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: “The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
 
Defendant’s
contention that sanctions should be denied because Plaintiff cited CCP §
2031.300 rather than CCP § 2030.300 as the statutory basis for sanctions is
unavailing. Defendant clearly had notice of the applicable statutory basis, as
references to CCP § 2031.310 were also made within the body of the motion and
cannot rely on this obvious clerical error. Plaintiff adequately complied with
CCP § 2023.040 which states, in relevant part: “A request for a sanction shall,
in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against
whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.”  Finally, denying sanctions simply based on
this clerical error would be impractical since Plaintiff could simply move
separately for monetary sanctions. “[W]hile it may be advisable that a party
place its request for monetary sanctions in its … motion to compel further
response, there is no legal requirement to do so.” London v. Dri-Honing
Corp. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 999, 1008. In addition, Defendant has not
established substantial justification as a review of the initial responses demonstrates
that they were not code compliant, and Defendant did not justify its
objections.
 
Sanctions
are awarded in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel
in the total amount of $1,160.00.  The
amount was derived by allotting for 4 hours to prepare and appear for the
motion at a rate of $275/hour, plus a filing fee of $60. 
 
Sanctions
are payable within 30 days of this date. 
   
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.