 Case Number:  23STCV12007    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Specially-Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion To Quash Service
Of Summons.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs JAIME BLANCO MACIEL and HELEN ORTIZ-BLANCO
(“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against over 50 defendants for injuries sustained by
Plaintiff JAIME BLANCO MACIEL by inhaling dust from working with defendants’
products containing crystalline silica. 
Specially-Appearing Defendant Consentino Group n/k/a Cosentino,
S.A. (“Defendant”) moves to quash service of the Summons and Complaint based on
lack of personal jurisdiction. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. 
On 3/11/24, the Court issued an order in which it
rejected Defendant’s argument that it was not properly served and held that Defendant
was validly served. With regards to Defendant’s argument that the Court lacks general
or specific personal jurisdiction over it, the Court continued the motion to
5/31/24 so that Plaintiffs could take jurisdictional-related discovery and
ordered the parties to file supplemental briefs. On 5/31/24, the Court continued
the hearing again to allow for further briefing based on Plaintiffs’ deposition
of Defendant’s PMQ on 5/6/24. 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The Court sustains all evidentiary objections filed
with the opposition and all evidentiary objections filed with the reply.  
LEGAL STANDARD
When a defendant files a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction, “the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal. App. 4th 556, 568. Personal jurisdiction may be general or
specific. Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th
434, 445. 
Relevant here, specific jurisdiction exists when a
defendant’s “minimum contacts” with the state shows that the defendant
purposefully directed its acts to the state, “that the cause of action [is]
related to or arise or result from the acts or contacts in the forum, and that
the exercise of personal jurisdiction by the forum would be reasonable.” Muckle
v. Superior Ct. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 218, 227–28. 
ANALYSIS
To establish the “minimum contacts” necessary to
create specific jurisdiction, Plaintiffs must establish that Defendant purposefully
directed its acts to California and these acts create a “substantial
connection” with the state. Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284. As
the Court noted when it continued the hearing on 5/31/24, Plaintiffs had not,
at that point, met their burden of establishing the facts of jurisdiction by a
preponderance of the evidence. 
For additional consideration, Plaintiffs have filed a
supplemental opposition attaching a transcript of a deposition of Jose Vela, Defendant’s
PMQ., taken May 6, 2024, in Reyes-Cuevas v. Alpha Tile Stone, Inc., number
23STCV00260. Plaintiffs argue that the deposition testimony establishes that
Defendant owns trademarks that it licensed to its subsidiary C&C North
America, and that this shows that Defendant has purposefully availed itself of
the privilege of conducting business in California. 
“Ownership of a subsidiary alone does not constitute
purposeful availment. Rather, purposeful availment requires some manner of
deliberately directing the subsidiary’s activities in, or having a substantial
connection with, the forum state.” HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1169. Similarly, the “representative services”
doctrine supports personal jurisdiction if a local subsidiary performs a
function compatible with, and assistive of, the parent corporation pursuing its
own business, but not where the parent is merely a holding company having only
an investment in the subsidiary. Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 543. “The proper jurisdictional question is not
whether the defendant can be liable for the acts of another person or entity
under state substantive law, but whether the defendant has purposefully
directed its activities at the forum state by causing a separate person or
entity to engage in forum contacts.” Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v. Superior
Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 983.
Also, defendants posting on websites must have
manifested an intent to target the forum state. 
Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 25.
Additionally, merely placing products into the stream
of commerce in another jurisdiction, with awareness that they will end up in
the forum state, is insufficient, but instead defendants must have engaged in
additional conduct, directed at the forum, and purposefully availed themselves
of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum state. Dow Chemical
Canada ULC v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 175-179.
Plaintiffs’ supplemental opposition does not highlight
any particular deposition testimony from Defendant’s PMQ deposition that
Plaintiffs believe support their argument. The Court’s review of the transcript
shows that deposing counsel asked all the questions potentially leading to
supportive answers. However, the deponent consistently stated answers
unsupportive of finding personal jurisdiction. The deponent repeatedly and
emphatically stated that Defendant has been only a holding company, without any
connection to trademarking, manufacturing, marketing, directing subsidiaries,
or maintaining a website. In other words, contrary to Plaintiffs’ vague and
conclusory argument, Defendant’s PMQ testimony did not show Defendant has purposefully
directed its activities to California. 
For instance, at deposition page 100, at lines 10
through 13, the deponent testified, “Cosentino Group, SA, recently changed its
name to Cosentino, SA. And my answer is that Cosentino Group, SA, never owned
shares in Cosentino North America.” As another example, at deposition page 105,
at lines 20 through 23, the deponent testified, “[b]ecause the only activity of
Cosentino, SA, is the holding of shares. It does not sell. It does not
manufacture. It does not distribute. It doesn't have a trademark.” With regard
to the topic of websites, at page 121, lines 3 through 8, the deponent
testified, “I can affirm … the domain www.cosentino.com is not property or
title of Cosentino, SA, which is the company I am appearing on behalf of for
this deposition. I also know that Cosentino Global, SLU, is the owner of the main
internet domains.”
To summarize, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not
shown minimum contacts, due to the absence of competent and supportive evidence.
Therefore, the Court declines to find that personal jurisdiction exists as to
Defendant.
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted. 
 
 