  Case Number:  22STCV37000    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Specially-Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash Service of
Summons.
 
BACKGROUND
JUAN GONZALEZ-MORIN (Decedent) and MARIA
SANCHEZ-QUEZADA, et al. (“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against Defendants, alleging
that Decedent’s exposures to stone products in his work as a stone countertop
installer of Defendants’ products in California ultimately caused his death. 
Specially-Appearing Cosentino Group, S.A. n/k/a
Cosentino, S.A. (“Defendant”) moves to quash service of the Summons and Complaint
based on lack of personal jurisdiction. Plaintiffs oppose the motion.
By order dated 1/24/24, a prior Department denied the
motion to quash, finding that Defendant was properly served and that the court
has personal jurisdiction over Defendant. Defendant filed a petition for writ
of mandate challenging the portion of the 1/24/24 order that denied Defendant’s
request for jurisdictional discovery. Notably, Defendant did not challenge the
prior Department’s finding that Defendant was properly served. On 3/11/24, this
Court allowed jurisdictional discovery, following an alternative writ about
vacating the prior Department’s 1/4/24 order summarily denying the motion to
quash. This Court also ordered that the parties could file additional briefing,
which both parties did.  
LEGAL STANDARD
When a defendant files a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction, “the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal. App. 4th 556, 568. Personal jurisdiction may be general or
specific. Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th
434, 445. 
Relevant here, specific jurisdiction exists when a
defendant’s “minimum contacts” with the state shows that the defendant
purposefully directed its acts to the state, “that the cause of action [is]
related to or arise or result from the acts or contacts in the forum, and that
the exercise of personal jurisdiction by the forum would be reasonable.” Muckle
v. Superior Ct. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 218, 227–28. Evidence consisting
of “vague assertions of ultimate fact rather than specific evidentiary facts”
is insufficient to meet the burden to show minimum contacts. Paneno v.
Centres for Academic Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1447,
1454.
ANALYSIS
As explained above, the prior Department already ruled
that Defendant was properly served and Defendant did not challenge that ruling
in its petition for writ of mandate. Thus, the only issue left after this Court’s
order granting jurisdictional discovery is whether Plaintiffs have established personal
jurisdiction.
In the initial round of briefing, Defendant objected
to Plaintiffs’ evidence largely consisting of printouts from www.cosentino.com and
involving other companies. Defendant also represented that it is a holding
company that never conducted business in California, never manufactured or
marketed products, and never owned, maintained or controlled www.cosentino.com.
In opposition, Plaintiffs recognized that many of the exhibits attached to the
declaration of Raphael Metzger, derived from Cosentino’s website, are not
authenticated. This record is wholly insufficient to establish personal
jurisdiction. 
After the Court granted Plaintiffs the opportunity to
conduct jurisdictional discovery, Plaintiffs deposed Defendant’s PMQ. Plaintiffs’
supplemental opposition merely references other court decisions in support of
valid service on Defendant. But that issue is moot because Defendant never
challenged the prior court order that Defendant was properly served. In this
case, the Court has received no supplemental opposition addressing supportive
evidence obtained after the deposition, pursuant to the appellate court’s
alternative writ. For more substantive analysis, the Court incorporates by
reference a ruling this date, addressing the post-discovery evidence, as to a
similar motion to quash summons by Consentino, in Maciel v. Alpha, case
number 23STCV12007. As demonstrated in that order, Plaintiffs’ additional jurisdictional
discovery, i.e., the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ, has not uncovered evidence
to support a finding of personal jurisdiction over Defendant. 
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted.