  Case Number:  22STCV05694    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Amended Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication of Issues.
BACKGROUND
ARTHUR ABRAMIAN and RENEA KACHEKYAN (“Plaintiffs”) filed
this case against their insurer RESPONSE INDEMNITY COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA (“Defendant”)
alleging that Defendant denied coverage for damage to Plaintiffs’ Tesla. The
causes of action are (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing. 
On 5/2/24, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for
summary adjudication of the breach of contract claim because triable issues of
material fact exist regarding Plaintiffs’ performance under the contract. The
insurance policy at issue requires Plaintiffs to prove all information
regarding the accident.  While Plaintiffs
maintain that the Tesla was parked when it was hit by another car, Defendants’
investigation and expert opinion concluded the Tesla was in motion when the
impact occurred, and thus Plaintiffs misrepresented the circumstances of the
accident. such that there was insured misrepresentation.
Defendant now moves for summary judgment or summary
adjudication of the Second Cause of Action for breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing and Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages and
attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
In moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
a “defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).) 
Once the defendant has satisfied that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show, by responsive separate statement and
admissible evidence, that triable issues of fact exist.”  Ostayan v. Serrano Reconveyance Co.
(2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1411, 1418, disapproved on other grounds by Black
Sky Cap., LLC v. Cobb (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 156, 165; see also CCP §
437c(p)(2).
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The Court sustains Defendant’s objection numbers 2, 3,
15, 21, 22, 26-30, 33-34, 39, and 42 to the Declaration of Bruce Warren and
overrules the remaining objections. The Court overrules Defendant’s objections
to the Declarations of Kenneth Pearl and Renea Kachekyan. 
ANALYSIS
Summary Judgment
Defendant contends that summary judgment is appropriate
because Plaintiff has not demonstrated triable issues of fact exist regarding
Plaintiffs’ performance under the insurance policy. But of course, the Court
already determined that triable issues of fact do exist regarding the
performance element of the breach of contract claim. The Court based its ruling
on Defendant’s evidence and the testimony of Plaintiff Kachekyan; it did not
consider the untimely declaration of Plaintiff’s expert Kenneth Pearl. Plaintiffs
have now included the testimony of Mr. Pearl to bolster their side of the story
of what happened with the Tesla. Defendant’s attacks on Mr. Pearl’s testimony
and Plaintiff Kachekyan is of no consequence because the Court already found
that triable issues of fact exist on the performance element and thus the contract
claim will need to be tried to a jury.  
Summary Adjudication- Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendant alternatively argues that it is entitled to
summary adjudication of the claim for breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, i.e., the bad faith insurance claim. 
Defendant contends that it cannot be liable for a bad
faith claim because it denied coverage based on a genuine dispute about coverage,
and relied upon experts’ opinions indicating the car was in motion (not parked)
when (1) it rubbed against a protruding tire, (2) certain damage appeared to
have been made intentionally, and (3) car data was absent for the alleged
incident. 
The genuine dispute rule does not apply unless
insurers thoroughly and fairly investigated, processed, and evaluated insured
claims, and maintained positions in good faith on reasonable grounds, under all
the circumstances. Brehm v. 21st Century Ins. Co.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1238-1239. 
“[A]n expert’s testimony will not automatically
insulate an insurer from a bad faith claim based on a biased investigation.” Chateau
Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n v. Associated Int'l Ins. Co. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 335, 348. Insurers may not insulate themselves from liability for
bad faith conduct by hiring experts to manufacture a purportedly genuine
dispute. Fadeeff v. State Farm Gen. Ins. Co. (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 94,
103. Insurers’ reliance on experts in denying claims may support triable
issues, including whether evidence shows insurers dishonestly selected experts,
the experts were unreasonable, or insurers failed to conduct an investigation
thoroughly. McCoy v. Progressive W. Ins. Co. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 785,
793.
Here, Plaintiff Kachekyan’s declaration competently
states that she parked the car, went into Trader Joe’s and Honey Baked Ham, and
upon returning discovered damage. E.g., Plaintiff’s declaration, ¶ 14 (“I
unequivocally state that I did not hit anything while driving and that the car
was undamaged when I parked it and went into the store.”). 
Plaintiff’s expert reached a different opinion than
defense experts Felix Lee and Sean Shideh who opined that physical
characteristics of the car damage (which they inspected), and recorded Tesla
data support the opinion that the car had been moving when damaged. According
to Plaintiffs’ expert, the damages are consistent with Plaintiffs’ description
of the incident and an absence of car data does not necessarily indicate the
absence of collision while parked. See Kenneth Pearl declaration, ¶¶ 3-14.
Moreover, Plaintiff’s evidence includes the deposition
of Tesla’s person most qualified, who testified that data is not necessarily
recorded when Tesla cars experience damage, but instead momentum would be
required. See Bruce Warren declaration, Ex. 7 (Deposition of Tesla PMQ
Christine Garci), pp. 64-65 (“it depends on whether or not that damage would
have produced some type of acceleration to the vehicle that the vehicle sensed
and recorded as a -- as a collision.”). Thus, Defendant may have unreasonably
relied upon automobile data in denying Plaintiffs’ claim for damage to a parked
car.
 “‘[A]n insurer
is not entitled to judgment as a matter of law where, viewing the facts in the
light most favorable to the plaintiff, a jury could conclude that the insurer
acted unreasonably.’” Wilson v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2007) 42 Cal.4th
713, 724. See also Barickman v. Mercury Cas. Co. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th
508, 521 (“as is true in many bad faith cases, the reasonableness of the
insurer’s claims-handling conduct was a question of fact to be resolved
following a trial.”). Under all the circumstances set forth by the parties, the
Court determines that a factfinder reasonably could find that Defendant
unreasonably and with malice denied Plaintiffs’ claim. Thus, Defendant’s
request for summary adjudication of the bad faith claim fails. 
Because the bad faith claim survives summary
adjudication, so does Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. Catalano v.
Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91, 97-98 (summary adjudication of
punitive damages must dispose of the entire claim for them). In this case,
attorneys’ fees are an element of the cause of action for the bad faith claim
such that the whole Second Cause of Action would need to be summarily
adjudicated. “Brandt held attorney fees reasonably incurred to compel payment
of policy benefits tortiously withheld by an insurer are recoverable as an
element of damages.” Textron Financial Corp. v. Nat’l Union Fire Ins. Co. of
Pittsburgh (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1074 (citing Brandt v. Superior
Court (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813, 815, 817).
CONCLUSION
The Court denies the motion and alternative motion.