 Case Number:  23STCV21547    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Specially Appearing Defendant Redpoint County
Mutual Insurance Company’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and First Amended
Complaint. Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
In this case, Plaintiff ADMIRAL INSURANCE COMPANY (“Plaintiff”)
seeks a declaratory judgment that an insurance policy it issued to Defendant GO
MAPS, INC. (“Defendant Go Maps”) does not provide coverage for an arbitration
that Defendant REDPOINT COUNTY MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY (“Defendant Redpoint”) noticed
against Defendant Go Maps, and that the insurance policy also does not cover
other lawsuits between Defendant Go Maps and Defendant TOPA INSURANCE GROUP (“Defendant
Topa”).
First, Specially Appearing Defendant Redpoint seeks a
motion to quash service of the summons and the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
because the Court already dismissed Defendant Redpoint for lack of personal
jurisdiction with respect to Plaintiff’s Complaint, and Plaintiff then filed
the subsequent FAC without the required leave to amend. Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
Second, Plaintiff seeks leave to file a proposed
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), adding a new cause of action of declaratory
relief concerning breach of a cooperation clause in an insurance policy issued
by Plaintiff. No Defendant opposed leave to amend. The Court considers both
motions in this tentative ruling.
MOTION TO QUASH
Legal Standard
In opposing a motion to quash based upon lack of
personal jurisdiction, a plaintiff has the burden to file evidence to show
minimum contacts. Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218,
228.
Analysis
Defendant Redpoint contends that its motion should be
granted because the Court already dismissed it for lack of personal
jurisdiction and none of the facts have changed about Defendant Redpoint’s lack
of connection to California. The Court agrees. 
Direct estoppel applies after dismissal of a complaint
on the basis of lack of personal jurisdiction, as to an amended complaint
subject to a motion to quash service on the same ground, and bars relitigating
personal jurisdiction. S. Sutter, LLC v. LJ Sutter Partners, L.P. (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 634, 661. See also Sabek, Inc. v. Engelhard Corp. (1998)
65 Cal.App.4th 992, 1000 (“matter of personal jurisdiction was completely
resolved by the finding that no minimum contacts existed…. After the previous
orders quashing service on this ground, it was incumbent … to seek
reconsideration or appellate review. Having failed to do so, Sabek is barred
from relitigating the issue by direct estoppel. The lower court properly
quashed service of the summons and Fifth Amended Complaint.”).
Here, Plaintiff is barred from relitigating against
Defendant Redpoint, after the 1/24/24 order quashing and dismissing Defendant,
before Plaintiff purportedly had filed the FAC.
Also, it would be within the jurisdiction of the
United States District Court for the Western District of Texas, which stayed
the Plaintiff’s other case pending the ruling on the instant motion to quash,
to decide whether that action will proceed instead of this one that is barred
under California law. See Laura E. Stewart Declaration, ¶ 16; and Plaintiff’s Request
for Judicial Notice.
Conclusion
The Court grants the motion to quash. The Court
quashes service of the summons and First Amended Complaint and dismisses this
action only as to Specially Appearing Defendant Redpoint County Mutual
Insurance Company. Code Civ. Proc.,  §
418.10.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
Legal Standard
A trial court has discretion to allow a party to amend
a pleading in the furtherance of justice. Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a). “If
discovery and investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely
amendment to a pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.”  Mabie v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
581, 596.  “It is a rare case in which
denial of leave to amend can be justified.” Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1422, 1428.







­




 



A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply
with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a), (b).) 
 
Analysis
Plaintiff impermissibly filed the FAC after Defendants
Go Maps and Topa had filed Answers and Defendant Redpoint was dismissed for
lack of personal jurisdiction, without seeking and obtaining leave to amend. Once
the defendants’ answers have been filed, the plaintiff's right to amend once,
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 472, no longer exists, and instead the
plaintiff must move for leave to amend, under Section 473, unless Section 472
would apply as to a different defendant in the case. Barton v. Khan
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1220. Here, Section 472 does not apply because all
Defendants had answered or had been dismissed. Simply put, Plaintiff needed to seek
leave to file the FAC and it did not do so.
Plaintiff contends that, since the filing of the
initial Complaint (and the impermissible FAC), it has learned additional facts
related to Defendant Go Maps’ alleged breach of its insurance policy with Plaintiff.
Plaintiff therefore seeks leave to file a SAC containing a new cause of action
against Defendant Go Maps for declaratory relief-breach of the cooperation clause.
The Court will grant leave for Plaintiff to allege this new claim based upon
the same general set of facts related to insured cooperation. “‘“[I]t is
irrelevant that new legal theories are introduced as long as the proposed
amendments 'relate to the same general set of facts….”’” Atkinson v. Elk
Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761. No defendant opposes the request to
add this cause of action and Plaintiff has satisfied the procedural
requirements set out in the CRC for an amended pleading.
The proposed amended SAC has one fatal flaw. It still
includes Defendant Redpoint as a defendant but this defendant was already
dismissed and cannot be added back in, as discussed above. 
Hence, the Court gives leave to file the SAC, but
without naming Defendant Redpoint.
Conclusion
On its own motion, the Court strikes First Amended
Complaint, as having been filed without leave to amend.
The Court grants the motion for leave to amend to file
a SAC but Plaintiff’s SAC must omit the dismissed defendant Redpoint. Plaintiff
may serve and file a SAC with that one change within 10 days of this order. 