 Case Number:  21STCV02421    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



FREDY VERY
  CORONA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
EXQUISITE APPAREL CORP., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 21STCV02421 




Hearing Date:


August 1, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT AND APPROVAL OF PRIVATE ATTORNEYS
  GENERAL ACT REPRESENTATIVE ACTION SETTLEMENT
 



            
Background
On January 20, 2021,
Plaintiff Fredy Vera Corona (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Exquisite Apparel Corp. (“Exquisite Apparel”) and Affluent Staffing, LLC. On March
16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Representative Action Complaint,
which contains a single cause of action for violation of the Private Attorneys
General Act of 2004.
Plaintiff indicates that Plaintiff
and Exquisite Apparel have agreed to settle the instant action as to Exquisite
Apparel only. (Hyun Decl., ¶¶ 7, 40, Ex. 1.) 
Plaintiff now moves for an order for a
determination of good faith settlement, and for an order approving the Private
Attorneys General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”) settlement. The motion is unopposed. 
 
 
Discussion
 
A.   
Motion for Approval of PAGA Settlement 
A superior court must
“review and approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this
part.” (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (s)(2).) 
The Court notes that
though there is no statutory or common law standard for approval of a PAGA
settlement, the standard used for approval of class action settlements is
instructive. “[A] presumption of fairness exists where: (1)
the settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation
and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act
intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4) the
percentage of objectors is small.” (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.) The last factor, small percentage of objectors, is
inapplicable to PAGA claims. (See Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 984-985
[rejecting the argument that representative actions under PAGA violate the due
process rights of “nonparty aggrieved employees who are not given notice of,
and an opportunity to be heard”].) Additional factors that are useful to
consider include the strength of a plaintiff’s case, the risk, expense,
complexity and likely duration of further litigation, the amount offered in
settlement, the extent of discovery completed, and the experience and views of
counsel. (See
Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.)
The
Court notes a few defects with the motion for approval of PAGA settlement. 
First,
the “Aggrieved Employees” are not defined in accordance with Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (c)(1), which
provides, “[f]or purposes of this part, ‘aggrieved
employee’ means any person who was employed by the alleged violator and
personally suffered each of the violations alleged during the period prescribed
under Section 340 of the Code of Civil Procedure…” The PAGA Settlement Agreement (herein, the
“Settlement Agreement”) here defines “Aggrieved Employee” as “all non-exempt
employees who were (1) employed by Exquisite or (2) were placed to work at an
Exquisite facility in California by Affluent Staffing, LLC and worked at least
one (1) day during the PAGA Period.” (Hyun Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 1, ¶ 1.4.)
Second,
the Settlement Agreement provides that
“75% of the PAGA Penalties will be allocated to the LWDA PAGA Payment and 25%
of the PAGA Penalties will be allocated to the Individual PAGA Payments.” (Hyun
Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 1, ¶ 3.2.3.) However, the Settlement Agreement does not appear
to specify what the amount of the “PAGA Penalties” is. Plaintiff’s proposed
order and judgment provides, inter alia, that “the remaining Net
Settlement Amount shall be divided, with 75% being paid to the California Labor
and Workforce Development Agency and the remaining 25% being allocated to the
Aggrieved Employees (as defined in the Settlement Agreement).” (Proposed Order
and Judgment, ¶ 6.) However, Section 3.2.3 of the Settlement Agreement does not
mention the “remaining Net Settlement Amount.” 
Third,
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration provides that “Plaintiff will receive an
enhancement award in the amount of $20,000 upon approval for his services as
the PAGA representative.” (Hyun Decl., ¶ 10.) However, it does not appear that
the Settlement Agreement contains a provision for the enhancement award. (Hyun
Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 1.) 
Fourth,
Plaintiff seeks a “PAGA Counsel Fees
Payment” of “not more than $225,000.00.” (Hyun Decl., ¶ 40, Ex. 1, ¶ 3.2.1.)
Thus, it appears that Plaintiff seeks 50% of the Gross Settlement Amount of
$450,00.00 in attorney’s fees. (Id. at ¶ 3.1.)
The Court does not find that Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence or
legal authority demonstrating that this percentage is reasonable. 
Fifth,
Plaintiff’s proposed order and judgment provides that “[i]n a settlement of a
PAGA action brought by an aggrieved employee, the court must ‘review and
approve’ the settlement.” (Proposed Order and Judgment, ¶ 3, citing Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (1)(2), emphasis added.)
However, Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (s)(2) provides that “[t]he
superior court shall review and approve any settlement of any civil action
filed pursuant to this part.”
Sixth, Plaintiff’s
proposed order and judgment references a “General Release Fee.” (Proposed Order
and Judgment, ¶¶ 6, 7, 17.) The Settlement Agreement does not appear to provide
for any “General Release Fee” in the monetary terms. 
Seventh,
the release language in paragraph 12 of the proposed order and judgment appears
to be broader than the releases provided for in the Settlement Agreement. 
Eighth,
paragraph 17 of the proposed order and judgment references a “Notice of
Settlement attached as Exhibit 3 to the Hyun Declaration.” However, Exhibit 2
to the Hyun Declaration is the “Notice of Settlement to the Aggrieved
Employees.” 
B.     Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by
the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure for determining if a
settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith
and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable
contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.” (Irm Corp. v.
Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a)(1)
provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action
in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good
faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)  
In Tech-Bilt, Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were
found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.” The evaluation of whether a settlement
was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)  
Significantly, when the good faith nature of a
settlement is uncontested, the Court need not consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “[W]hen no
one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.” (Ibid.)
In support of the
motion, Plaintiff submits the declaration of his counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel
sets forth a brief background of the case. (Hyun Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n June 5, 2024, the Parties
participated in an all-day mediation with Michael D. Young, Esq. Affluent
refused to mediate and is a corporation that is no longer represented by
counsel. The Parties were able to reach a resolution, which led to this
Agreement to settle the Action as to Exquisite only...” (Hyun Decl., ¶ 7.) “Prior
to attending mediation, the Parties engaged in substantial discovery, including
but not limited to providing and evaluating employment policies, employee
handbooks, Plaintiff’s personnel file, Plaintiff’s time records, Plaintiff’s
wage statements, and time and payroll records for approximately 283 employees.”
(Hyun Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that “Plaintiff is entitled to a determination that the
settlement with Defendant Exquisite in the sum of $450,000 is made in good
faith, in that…the total settlement amount is proportionate given Defendant
Exquisite’s alleged liability as a joint employer (not a direct employer) of
Plaintiff and other Aggrieved Employees; (2) the amount owed by the Settlement
is $450,000; (3) the allocation to Plaintiff, the Aggrieved Employees, and the
State of California will be based on the terms outlined in the Settlement,
i.e., 75% of the net recovery will be paid to the LWDA and the remaining 25%
will be paid to Plaintiff and the Aggrieved Employees based on the
proportionate share of pay periods; (4) Defendant Exquisite will pay less in the
Settlement than it would if it were found liable after trial, if, Plaintiff
prevailed on all counts and successfully proved that Exquisite was a joint
employer; (5) the Settlement amount is reasonable due to the financial hardship
Defendant will suffer if litigation were to continue and liability was proven
at trial since Exquisite could face potential bankruptcy should the Court award
the maximum civil penalties, attorneys’ fees, and costs at trial; and (6) there
is no existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling Defendant, Affluent Staffing, LLC.” (Hyun Decl.,
¶ 10.) 
The
Court finds that the unopposed motion describes the background
of this case, details the nature of the proposed settlement, and provides sufficient
reasoning as to why the settlement was reached in good faith. All indications
are that the settlement was reached as a result of arm’s length negotiations
between the settling parties. 
            Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion for approval of PAGA settlement, without prejudice. 
            The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
for determination of good faith settlement. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
ruling.
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court