 Case Number:  22STCV06517    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



DEVIN ESTIME, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH
  PLAN, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV06517




Hearing
  Date:


August 1,
   2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF DEVIN
  ESTIME’S MOTION TO DEEM FACTS ADMITTED AS TO DEFENDANT SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
  PERMANENTE GROUP; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $12,510



 
Background
Plaintiffs Devin Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, Arti Bhimani; Michel Estime; and Arti Bhimani filed this action on
February 22, 2022 against a number of defendants. 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff Devin Estime, a minor, by and through
his Guardian Ad Litem, Arti Bhimani (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against defendants Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (“SCPMG”) and Enrique Earle Emel, M.D.  
            Plaintiff now moves for “an order
that the truth of the matters specified in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions,
Set One, Nos. 3,4, 6, 7, 14-16, and 19-21 propounded to [SCPMG] be deemed
admitted and conclusively established for all purposes.” SCPMG opposes. 
 
Discussion 
In her declaration in support of the motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n August 11, 2022 my office served
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One (‘RFAs’) on SCPMG by electronic
service.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) SCPMG served its responses to the RFAs
on October 5, 2022, which included a verification signed by Debra M. Nelson,
Interim Managing Director of Permanente Human Resources. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. B.)
The verification included in Exhibit B to Ms. Ganesan’s declaration is
dated October 4, 2022, and provides, inter alia, that “[t]he attached
document entitled DEFENDANT, SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP,
RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE is the product of
information gathered by others, and on the [sic] basis I am informed and
believe, and on the basis of such information and belief declare, that the
facts stated therein are true.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that on November 1, 2023 Plaintiff noticed
the deposition of Debra M. Nelson for November 30, 2023 in order to understand
the basis for SCPMG’s responses to the RFAs. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 5.) On March 5,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel took the deposition of Ms. Nelson. (Ganesan Decl., ¶
11.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n the night of May 6, 2024, SCPMG
re-served the responses to the RFAs, but with a new verification form signed by
Ms. Nelson.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. I.) 
The verification included in Exhibit I to Ms. Ganesan’s declaration is
dated May 6, 2024, and provides, inter alia, that “[t]he attached
document entitled: DEFENDANT SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP
RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE is the product of
information gathered by others. I have made reasonable efforts to review
relevant documents, records, and information possessed by or known to SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, its officers and employees. On those bases,
I am informed and believe, and, on the basis of such information and belief,
declare, that the facts stated therein are true.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. I.)
On May 7, 2024, the parties participated in an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”). The Court’s May 7, 2024 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he parties completed their Informal Discovery Conference
requirement for the issues identified in their IDC Statements for the May 7,
2024 IDC dated April 26, 2024 (3) and May 2, 2024 for Defendants. Plaintiff may
file motions to compel/compel further within 30 days of the date of this
order.”[1]
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[t]he parties participated at an IDC
on May 7, 2024 concerning, in part, whether Ms. Nelson actually verified
SCPMG’s discovery responses based on the original verification forms. At the
IDC, Mr. Bradford stated that he informed Ms. Nelson what was done to gather
information for the responses, and that she signed new verification forms
thereafter. I stated that, given these new forms, I would need to take Ms.
Nelson’s deposition a second time to determine the verification issue had been
resolved. The Court permitted Plaintiff to file this Motion if the new
verifications were not satisfactory.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n May 28, 2024, I took a second
deposition of Ms. Nelson based upon her new verifications SCPMG’s discovery
responses.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n June
3, 2024, I met and conferred with Mr. Bradford about Plaintiff’s intent file
his Motion to Deem the RFAs Admitted. I explained that, based on her May 28
deposition testimony, Ms. Nelson still hadn’t demonstrated that she did
anything to verify the accuracy of the RFA responses. Mr. Bradford disagreed.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 16.) 
In the instant motion, Plaintiff asserts that “SCPMG [sic] failure to
verify its responses requires the Court to order the truth of matters
encompassed within the requests deemed admitted.” (Mot. at p. 9:1-2.) 
Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.240, which
provides that “[t]he party to whom the
requests for admission are directed shall sign the response under oath, unless
the response contains only objections.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.240,
subd. (a).) Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.240, subdivision (b), “[i]f
that party is a public or private corporation, or a partnership or association
or governmental agency, one of its officers or agents shall sign the response
under oath on behalf of that party.” 
Plaintiff notes that “[u]nsworn responses are
tantamount to no responses at all.” (Appleton v.
Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) If the response contains both answer and
objections, the portion containing fact-specific responses must be verified. (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc v. Superior Court (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 651, 657 [“The omission of the verification in the portion
of the response containing fact-specific responses merely renders that portion
of the response untimely….” (emphasis in original)].)
 Plaintiff notes that
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.280, subdivision (b), “[i]f a party to whom requests for
admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules
apply:…(b) The requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of
any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
            As discussed, Plaintiff
indicates that on May 6, 2024, “SCPMG re-served the responses to the
RFAs, but with a new verification form signed by Ms. Nelson.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. I.) On May 28, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel took a second deposition of Ms. Nelson based upon her new
verifications SCPMG’s discovery responses. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. K.) 
In her May 28,
2024 deposition, Ms. Nelson
testified as follows: “Q[.] Okay. So, Ms. Nelson, you know, in each of
these exhibits that I’ve showed you, the verification -- you made verification
stating that you had, and I quote, ‘made reasonable efforts to review relevant
documents, records, and information possessed by or known to others at Southern
California Permanente Group, its officers and employees.’ What efforts did you
make to review relevant documents, records, and information as you stated in
these verifications? A[.] So I had a meeting that I previously mentioned. And
at that meeting -- I mentioned the people that were there -- but it was Naomi
Lago; Mr. Bradford; Lucy, another attorney from his office; and Amit Singh. So
at that meeting, what was shared with me was the -- the process by which Mimi
goes about -- Naomi goes about doing her work in gathering the information.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. K (Nelson Depo.) at p. 113:10-114:2.) Plaintiff notes
that Ms. Nelson testified “Q[.] Okay. And what relevant documents, records, and
information did you review? A[.] The documents that we just went over and the
-- and the attached exhibits. Q[.] Okay. A[.] All that information was at the
meeting.” (Id. at p. 114:3-8.)
Plaintiff also points to the following testimony from Ms. Nelson’s
deposition: “[Q.]…Let’s look at Exhibit 4, which is request for admissions. So
our Opinion Number 3 admits that ‘on March 8, 2021, Emel never informed Arti
that Plaintiff has scoliosis.’ Do you know what steps Ms. Lago took to obtain
this information?... Q…Let me rephrase that question. Do you know if Ms. Lago
took any steps to verify – or to obtain this information to respond to this
request? A[.] No. I don’t. Q Okay…Let’s do Number 4: ‘Admit that on March 8,
2021, Emel did not provide any documents to Arti that relates to scoliosis.’…So
do you know what Ms. Lago did, or if she did anything, to obtain information to
respond to this request? A Specifically, no. But I know that she works with
defense counsel in the preparation of this -- of these responses.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. K (Nelson Depo.) at p. 158:1-25.) 
Plaintiff also points to the following testimony: “Q[.] Let’s go to
here. ‘Admit’ -- Number 6: ‘Admit that on March 8, 2021, Emel did not provide
any documents to Plaintiff that indicated that Plaintiff had scoliosis.’ Do you
know what she may have done to -- if she did anything -- Ms. Lago did anything
to obtain information to respond to this request? A[.] No. Specifically, I don’t
know what she did to respond to this request. Q[.] Okay. For Number 7, ‘Admit
that on March 8, 2021, Emel did not diagnose Plaintiff with scoliosis,’ do you
know what she did to obtain information to respond to this request?...Q[.] Do
you know if she did anything, Ms. Lago did anything, to obtain information to
respond to this request? A[.] I know that she worked with defense counsel, and
I know that she gathered information based on if there were any individuals
identified that could help respond to the request so –Q[.] But I’m --
specifically for this one, do you know who she would have spoken to about this,
who she – A[.] I do not. Q[.] Okay. So you don’t know if she did anything
specifically to search for responses to this request? A[.] I -- I don’t know
who she spoke to or – Q[.] Or if she spoke to anyone? A[.] Correct.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. K (Nelson Depo.) at p. 159:1-160:6.) Plaintiff cites to similar testimony concerning Requests Nos. 14, 15, 16,
and 19. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. K (Nelson Depo.) at p. 160:13-161:4; 161:15-19.)

Plaintiff also cites to the following testimony from Ms. Nelson’s deposition: “Q[.] Do you know if anyone that
you spoke to at the meeting you attended on May 3 spoke to anyone else at SCPMG
about providing responses to these requests? These – A[.] I don’t know. Q
Sorry. Sorry. For this set of RFAs. Your response is you don’t know? A[.] That
is correct.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. K (Nelson Depo.)
at p. 162:5-12.) In addition, Plaintiff
cites to the following testimony: “Q[.] Okay. Other than Naomi and Mr.
Bradford and Amit Singh, did you speak to any individuals to make sure that the
information provided in the discovery responses were true and accurate? A[.]
No.” (Id. at p. 115:9-13.) Plaintiff also
cites to the following testimony: “Q[.] Other than the meeting and the people
you spoke to -- and I don’t even mean reviewing these specific documents. Other
than the people you -- speaking to -- or attending the meeting, reviewing these
discovery responses, and reviewing the-attachments to the discovery responses,
what did you do to ensure that the responses found herein were accurate? A[.]
Those are the steps I took. There were no other steps.” (Id.
at p. 123:11-20.) 
            Plaintiff
asserts that accordingly, “despite the new verification form, Ms. Nelson
still has no basis on which to form a belief that the responses were true and
accurate…” (Mot. at p. 11:21-22, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff asserts that he “has
no assurance based on Ms. Nelson’s verification that all known information was
reviewed and considered in responding to the RFAs,” and that “[a]s such,
SCPMG’s RFA responses should be deemed unverified, as the responses are
tantamount to no response at all.” (Mot. at p. 12:2-4.) Plaintiff argues that
the Court should “grant the Motion and deem all matters set forth in the RFAs
admitted.” (Mot. at p. 12:6-7.) 
In the opposition, SCPMG notes that pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.240, subdivision (b), discussed above, “[i]f that party is a public or private corporation, or a
partnership or association or governmental agency, one of its officers or
agents shall sign the response under oath on behalf of that party.” SPMG notes that Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.240, subdivision (b) is “silent
about the steps that the agent needs to take before signing a verification.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:4-5.) 
In addition, SCPMG’s counsel states that “[o]n May 3, 2024, defense
counsels, Thomas Bradford, Esq., Lusine Arshakyan, Esq., Amit Singh, Esq.,
Senior Counsel for SCPMG, and Naomi Lago, Risk/Liability Claims Specialist met
in person with Debra Nelson at the Pasadena Kaiser Permanente Regional Office
to discuss the sources of information relied on to prepare and respond to
discovery requests. The meeting lasted almost two hours. During the meeting,
Ms. Nelson learned the sources of the information used to respond to
Plaintiff's discovery requests, including responses to the Request For
Admissions.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 8.) SCPMG’s counsel states that “[s]ubsequently,
on May 6, 2024, having learned the process and the sources of the information
used to prepare the responses, Ms. Nelson re-signed all the verifications, and
SCPMG re-served all of its previously served responses with the new
verification, including RFAs.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 9.)
SCPMG notes that at her May 28, 2024 deposition, Ms. Nelson testified as
follows: “Q[.]…since your last deposition, you submitted new verification forms
for each of the discovery responses that were provided by SCPMG; is that
correct? A[.] Yes. Q[.] Okay. Why did you submit new forms? A[.] So new forms
were submitted because I now have information about the -- how the information
is -- is gathered.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. J (Nelson Depo.) at p.
96:14-23.) SCPMG also cites to the following testimony from the deposition: “Q[.]
Who helped you recall that information during the break? A[.] So I was reminded
by Counsel of the topics that we had discussed. And, so, when we discussed, you
know who was responsible for obtaining what information, I was reminded that
Counsel does that gathering of information and -- with Dr. Emel.” (Id. at p. 178:15-21.) 
SCPMG asserts that “[i]n advance of signing the new verifications, Ms.
Nelson took reasonable steps to identify the sources of the information in all
the previously served discovery requests, including RFAs, in the 2-hour
briefing she received during the meeting on May 3, 2024. She learned all of the
sources of the information from Ms. Lago and defense counsel. Specifically, she
learned from defense counsel, Mr. Bradford that the information needed to
respond to the RFAs was gathered by Mr. Bradford and his office and from Dr.
Emel.” (Opp’n at pp. 7:26-8:3.) 
SCPMG also asserts that Ms. Nelson “testified as to all the sources of
information upon which [sic] relied in her May 28, 2024 deposition. Ms. Nelson
reviewed the documents attached to the discovery responses.” (Opp’n at p.
8:3-5.) Indeed, as discussed, Ms. Nelson’s deposition testimony provides as
follows: “Q[.] Okay. And what relevant documents, records, and information did
you review? A[.] The documents that we just went over and the -- and the
attached exhibits. Q[.] Okay. A[.] All that information was at the meeting.” (Bradford
Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. J (Nelson Depo.) at p. 114:3-8.) Ms. Nelson also testified
that “Q[.]…Other than the people you -- speaking to -- or attending the
meeting, reviewing these discovery responses, and reviewing the-attachments to
the discovery responses, what did you do to ensure that the responses found herein
were accurate? A[.] Those are the steps I took.” (Id.
at p. 123:14-19.)
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
shown that SCPMG’s responses should be “deemed unverified.” Thus, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for an order that “the truth of the matters
specified in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, Nos. 3, 4, 6, 7,
14-16, and 19-21 propounded to [SCPMG] be deemed admitted and conclusively
established for all purposes…” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:4-7.) 
Plaintiff also seeks “an order that SCPMG and its attorney Thomas
Bradford of the law firm Peterson, Bradford & Burkwitz, LLP pay to
Plaintiff the sum of $12,510 as the reasonable costs and attorney fees incurred
by Plaintiff to bring this Motion.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:9-11.) Plaintiff
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c), which provides that “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
In light of the foregoing ruling on Plaintiff’s motion, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c). 
In addition,
Plaintiff asserts that “[s]anctions should also be issued against
SCPMG on the additional basis that using the method described by Ms. Nelson in
verifying SCPMG’s discovery responses is a pattern of practice of discovery
abuse by SCPMG and its attorneys in all of SCPMG’s litigation.” (Mot. at p.
12:22-24, emphasis omitted.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not cite any
legal authority supporting Plaintiff’s request for sanctions on these grounds.
In addition, as discussed, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown
that the SCPMG’s responses should be deemed unverified. As discussed, SCPMG provides evidence that Ms. Nelson
learned the sources of the information used to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery
requests, and Ms. Nelson testified as to the documents she reviewed before
signing the second verification.
Plaintiff also
assert that “[s]anctions should also be issued against SCPMG’s
attorney, Thomas Bradford, his participation in this discovery abuse, and for
misusing the discovery process within the meaning of Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010[2],
Mr. Bradford knew that Ms. Nelson did not have any knowledge on which to verify
that the responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs were true and accurate (as he told Ms.
Ganesan in his email to her), and nonetheless allowed Ms. Nelson to verify the
RFA responses twice for Plaintiff’s reliance.” (Mot. at p. 13:14-19.) The Court
notes that Plaintiff does not cite to or appear to provide evidence showing
that “Mr. Bradford knew that Ms. Nelson did not have any knowledge on which to
verify that the responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs were true and accurate.” (Mot. at
p. 13:16-17.) In addition, as set forth above, the Court does not find that
Plaintiff has shown that the SCPMG’s subject responses should be “deemed
unverified.” 
Lastly, SCPMG seeks
“monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,600.00…against Plaintiff,
Devin Estime, and/or his counsel of record, Sridavi Ganesan, Esq., and Rome
LLP, jointly and severally, for reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in
connection with opposing [sic] Motion.” (Opp’n at p. 10:13-16.) 
SCPMG cites to Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030,
subdivision (a) in support of its request for sanctions, which provides that
“[t]he court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…If a
monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall
impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” SCPMG notes that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, “[m]isuses
of the discovery process include…(h) Making or opposing,
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to
limit discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd.
(h).) As an initial matter, the instant motion is not a “motion to compel or to limit
discovery.” (Ibid.) In addition, the Court
finds that Plaintiff acted with substantial justification in presenting his
position. Thus, the Court denies SCPMG’s request for sanctions.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied. SCPMG’s request
for sanctions is also denied. SCPMG is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.  
DATED:  August 1, 2024                                                       
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


