 Case Number:  21STCV08577    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




AARON MARZWELL, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
LFSLIE
  HERRLRA, individually and dba MADISON TENANTS UNION, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  21STCV08577 




Hearing Date:


August 1, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 




            
 
Background
Plaintiff Aaron Marzwell
filed this action on March 4, 2021 against a number of defendants. 
On February 28, 2023,
Plaintiffs Aaron Marzwell; Roey Marzwell, a minor, by and through Aaron Marzwell as Guardian ad
litem; Annette Marzwell, a minor, by and through Aaron Marzwell as Guardian ad litem; and Leo Marzwell, a minor,
by and through Aaron Marzwell as
Guardian ad litem (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)[1] filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Leslie
Herrera, individually and dba Madison Tenants Union; Guillermo Garcia,
individually and dba Madison Tenants Union; Ana Maria Garcia, individually and
dba Madison Tenants Union; Reina P. Estrada, individually and dba Madison
Tenants Union; Maria Ponce De Leon, individually and dba Madison Tenants Union;
Tony Ramirez, individually and dba Los Angeles Tenants Union; and Maria Luisa
Xocoy, individually and dba Los Angeles Tenants Union. 
The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) “damages for trespass and
injunction” and 
(2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Leslie Hererra, Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, Reina Estrada,
Maria Ponce de Leon, and Maria Xocoy[2]
(collectively, “Defendants”) now move for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication. Plaintiffs
oppose. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ amended
evidentiary objections as follows:  
 Objection
to the Declaration of Guillermo Garcia
Objection No. 1: overruled
            Objection
to the Declaration of Ana Maria Garcia 
                        Objection
No. 3: overruled 
            Objection
to the Declaration of Leslie Herrera 
                        Objection
No. 1: overruled 
            Objection
to the Declaration of Maria Ponce De Leon 
                        Objection
No. 1: overruled 
            Objections
to the Declaration of Reina Estrada 
                        Objection
No. 3: overruled
                        Objection
No. 6: overruled
                        Objection
No. 7: overruled 
                        Objection
No. 9: overruled 
                        Objection
No. 10: sustained                         
            Objections
to the Declaration of Maria Xocoy
                        Objection
No. 1: overruled 
                        Objection
No. 3: overruled
                        Objection
No. 9: overruled 
                        Objection
No. 10: overruled 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes
of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more
claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the
cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or
more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a
prima facie showing that there are
no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.)
If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) When a defendant seeks summary
judgment or summary adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a
complete defense to that cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) 
///
///
///
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
FAC
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he incidents that are the
subjects of [the] First Amended Complaint occurred in the vicinity of and at
the premises located at 11502 Missouri Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90025
(hereinafter the ‘Property’).” (FAC, ¶ 6.) Aaron Marzwell is the owner of the
Property. (FAC, ¶ 11.) 
Aaron Marzwell is a member of 1155 N. Madison Avenue, LLC (“Madison
Avenue LLC”). (FAC, ¶ 9.) Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, and Reina P.
Estrada were defendants in certain unlawful detainer actions instituted by
Madison Avenue LLC against them. (FAC, ¶ 9.)
Plaintiffs
allege that “the acts which are hereinafter alleged were undertaken by
Defendants, and each of them, in retaliation and retribution for Madison Avenue
LLC having commenced unlawful detainer actions against said tenants, and were
undertaken by Defendants, and each of them, to use force, threats, trespass and
intimidation to coerce more favorable results in said unlawful detainer
actions…” (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
            Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n or
about January 16, 2021, Defendants, and each of them, intentionally entered
upon the Property and trespassed thereon without the consent of Plaintiffs. At
said time and place, Defendants, and each of them, taped flyers to the garage
of the Property using duct tape, all without the consent of Plaintiffs.” (FAC,
¶ 12.) 
“On or about February 20, 2021, Defendants, and each of them, further
intentionally caused damage to the garage of the Property by using wallpaper
glue on the garage doors, and also by gluing signs to the stucco and wood
garage doors and fences on the Property, all without the consent of
Plaintiffs.” (FAC, ¶ 13.) “On or about February 20, 2021, Defendants, and each
of them, through one of the Defendants who was masked, and whom Plaintiffs are
informed and believe and thereon allege was the leader of a group of
protestors, climbed and jumped over a 7-foot wall in front of the Property, and
then opened the gate so that other members of the group could push furniture
into the entryway, blocking the ability of Plaintiffs to escape. This same
individual, using a blowhorn, loudly shouted profanities and threats of
physical violence, approached Plaintiffs’ front door to the Property and
attempted to gain entry into the inside of the Property.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) “Defendants,
and each of them, through said individual, repeatedly attempted to open the
front door for the purpose of gaining entry, banged violently on the glass
door, and yelled profanities at the Minors[3],
as they attempted to escape by running from the area of the front door. Said
individual did not leave the Property until the police were called to and
arrived at the Property.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) 
B.     Arguments
Pertaining to Both Causes of Action 
First Cause of Action for Trespass 
As to the first cause of action for trespass, Plaintiffs allege that
on or about January 16, 2021 and February 20, 2021, Defendants trespassed upon
the subject Property. (FAC, ¶¶ 12-13.) “The essence
of the cause of action for trespass is an ‘unauthorized entry’ onto the land of
another.” (Civic Western Corp. v. Zila Industries, Inc. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 1, 16.) Defendants
assert that they “are entitled to summary adjudication on the first cause of
action for trespass because none of them ever personally trespassed on
Plaintiffs’ property…” (Mot. at p. 2:11-13.)
Ana Maria Garcia and Maria Ponce de Leon
Defendants assert that “Ana Maria Garcia and Maria Ponce de Leon were
not present at either of the two protests in question.” (Mot. at p. 2:17-18.) In
her supporting declaration, Ana Maria Garcia states that “I did not participate
in the protest that took place on January 16, 2021. I did not participate in
the planning or organization of the January 16, 2021, protest in any way.” (Ana
Maria Garcia Decl., ¶ 5.) Ana Maria Garcia further states that “I did not
participate in the protest that took place on February 20, 2021. I did not
participate in the planning or organization of the February 20, 2021, protest
in any way.” (Ana Maria Garcia Decl., ¶ 6.) In addition, Maria Ponce de Leon
states in her supporting declaration that “I did not participate in the
protests that took place on January 16, 2021, or February 20, 2021, in front of
the Plaintiffs’ home.” (Maria Ponce de Leon Decl., ¶ 6.) Maria Ponce de Leon
states that “I did not participate in the planning or organization of either
the January 16, 2021, or the February 20, 2021 [sic], in front of the
Plaintiffs’ home in any way.” (Maria Ponce de Leon Decl., ¶ 7.) 
January 16, 2021 Protest  
Defendants assert that “[t]he remaining Defendants that did attend the
January 16, 2021, protest – Reina Estrada, Leslie Herrera, Guillermo Garcia,
and Maria Xocoy - did not commit or condone any trespass or damage to
Plaintiffs’ property.” (Mot. at p. 2:18-20.) 
In their respective supporting declarations, Leslie Herrera and Guillermo
Garcia state, “I participated in a protest outside the vicinity of Plaintiffs’
home located at 11502 Missouri on January 16, 2021. That day, I met other
protest participants at a nearby park in the morning, and I walked with about
thirty other protestors to the public area outside the Plaintiffs’ house,
holding signs and banners…The entire protest, I stayed on public property...” (Herrera
Decl.; Guillermo Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7.)
In her supporting declaration, Reina Estrada states that “[d]uring the
January 16, 2021, protest, protest attendees protested outside Marzwell’s home
and I observed other attendees post signs outside of the parts of Marzwell’s
property that were accessible from the public sidewalk…On January 16, 2021, I
did not post any signs on Marzwell’s property, and I stayed on public property,
either on the street or sidewalk.” (Estrada Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) In her supporting
declaration, Maria Xocoy states that “[f]or both protests, I stayed on public
property on the street and the curb. I did not stick or tape any signs on the
Plaintiffs’ property.” (Xocoy Decl., ¶ 7.) 
February 20, 2021 Protest
            Defendants assert that “[o]nly Reina
Estrada and Maria Xocoy attended the second protest that occurred on February
20, 2021, and neither of them committed or condoned trespass or damage to
Plaintiffs’ property or the actions of one lone protestor who engaged in
threatening behavior…” (Mot. at p. 2:21-23.)[4]
            In their supporting declarations,
Reina Estrada and Maria Xocoy state that they took part in the protest on
February 20, 2021. (Estrada Decl., ¶ 5; Xocoy Decl., ¶ 5.) Reina Estrada and
Maria Xocoy state in their respective declarations that during the February 20,
2021 protest, “one individual protestor jumped over Aaron Marzwell’s gate. I do
not know the identity of this individual and had never spoken to him
personally. I had no knowledge that he would jump over Aaron Marzwell’s gate or
take any other actions on areas of private property which were fenced off or
locked behind doors.” (Estrada Decl., ¶ 10; Xocoy Decl., ¶ 9.)   
            Reina Estrada further states in her
declaration “I did not instruct, assist or encourage any of the protestors to
enter Marzwell’s gated private property, cause damage to Marzwell’s property,
or place any objects to the exits and entrances to Marzwell’s residence so as
to block ingress or egress.” (Estrada Decl., ¶ 15.) Maria Xocoy states that
“[f]or both protests, I stayed on public property on the street and the curb. I
did not stick or tape any signs on the Plaintiffs’ property. I did not yell
vulgarities or obscenities.” (Xocoy Decl., ¶ 7.)  
            Second Cause of Action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress  
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. A defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the
defendant’s conduct must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
Defendants assert that “Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, Leslie
Hererra, and Maria Ponce de Leon are entitled to summary adjudication on the
second cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress because
none of them were present at the February 20, 2021, protest where Plaintiff
argues actions giving rise to liability took place…” (Mot. at p. 2:13-16.) In
the second cause of action of the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “on or about
February 20, 2021, Defendants, and each of them, committed outrageous acts or
had others commit on their behalf outrageous acts…” (FAC, ¶ 22.)
As set forth above, Leslie Herrera and Guillermo Garcia state that
they “did not participate in the protest that took place on February 20, 2021.”
(Herrera Decl., ¶ 8; Garcia Decl., ¶ 8.) Ana Maria Garcia states that “I did
not participate in the protest that took place on February 20, 2021.” (Ana
Maria Garcia Decl., ¶ 6.) In addition, Maria Ponce de Leon states that “I did
not participate in the protest[] that took place on…February 20, 2021, in front
of the Plaintiffs’ home.” (Maria Ponce de Leon Decl., ¶ 6.) 
            In addition, Defendants assert that “Reina
Estrada and Maria Xocoy are entitled to summary adjudication on the second
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress because there
is insufficient evidence as a matter of law to meet the elements of this cause
of action…” (Mot. at p. 2:20-22.) Defendants assert that none of the actions
Reina Estrada and Maria Xocoy took, “or that any of the protestors took, apart
from the lone protestor who jumped over Plaintiff’s gate, constitute the
extreme and outrageous behavior necessary successfully assert a claim of
intentional infliction of emotional distress.” (Mot. at p. 9:18-21.)
            As discussed, Reina Estrada states
that “[d]uring the February 20, 2021 [sic], one individual protestor jumped
over Aaron Marzwell’s gate. I do not know the identity of this individual and
had never spoken to him personally. I had no knowledge that he would jump over
Aaron Marzwell’s gate or take any other actions on areas of private property
which were fenced off or locked behind doors.” (Estrada Decl., ¶ 10.) Reina
Estrada states that “I did not instruct, assist or encourage any of the
protestors to enter Marzwell’s gated private property, cause damage to
Marzwell’s property, or place any objects to the exits and entrances to
Marzwell’s residence so as to block ingress or egress.” (Estrada Decl., ¶ 15.) 
In addition, in her supporting declaration, Maria Xocoy states that “[f]or
both protests, I stayed on public property on the street and the curb. I did
not stick or tape any signs on the Plaintiffs’ property. I did not yell
vulgarities or obscenities.” (Xocoy Decl., ¶ 7.) Maria Xocoy further states
that “[d]uring the second protest on February 20, 2021, one individual
protestor jumped over Aaron Marzwell’s gate. I do not know the identity of this
individual and had never
spoken
to him personally. I had no knowledge that he would jump over Aaron Marzwell’s
gate or take any other actions on areas of private property which were fenced
off or locked behind doors.” (Xocoy Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their
burden of demonstrating that Plaintiffs’ first and second causes of action are
without merit. 
In the opposition to the instant motion, Plaintiffs assert that
“[o]n January 16, 2021, numerous individuals trespassed on
Plaintiffs’ private property and glued flyers and posters to the stucco
building and garage, resulting in property damage. Similarly, and to a much
more egregious degree, during the February 20, 2021 mob, numerous individuals
trespassed on Plaintiffs’ private property and again glued flyers and posters
to the stucco building and garage, resulting in property damage.” (Opp’n at p.
13:10-15.) However, Plaintiffs do not appear to identify what “individuals”
they are referring to.  
In his supporting declaration, Aaron Marzwell states that “[t]he first
attack at my home occurred on January 16, 2021, when Defendants, and each them,
by way of the LATU on behalf of the Madison Tenant’s Association, organized a
mob to deface and trespass on my primary residence.” (Marzwell Decl., ¶ 29.) Mr.
Marzwell states that “[d]uring this incident, on January 16, 2021, numerous
individuals trespassed on my private property and glued flyers and posters to
the stucco building and garage, resulting in property damage.” (Marzwell Decl.,
¶ 30.) However, Mr. Marzwell does not appear to identify what “individuals” he
is referring to. 
Mr. Marzwell also states that “[t]he second attack on my residence
occurred on February 20, 2021, when Defendants, and each them, by way of the
LATU on acting on behalf of the Madison Tenant’s Association, again organized a
mob to further threaten, bully, harass, deface, and trespass on my primary
residence. Like at the first mob, numerous individuals trespassed on my private
property and glued flyers and posters to the stucco building and garage,
resulting in property damage.” (Marzwell Decl., ¶ 31.) However, Mr. Marzwell
again does not appear to identify what “individuals” he is referring to.
As to Reina Estrada specifically, Mr. Marzwell states that “true and
correct copies of photos of Estrada trespassing on my property on February 20,
2021 are attached to the Compendium of Exhibits as Exhibit 27…” (Marzwell
Decl., ¶ 31, Ex. 27.) In the reply, Defendants concede that “Defendant Reina
Estrada engaged in trespassing of a de minimis nature by posting signs on Aaron
Marzwell’s garage where the garage abutted a public sidewalk.” (Reply at p.
11:8-9.) 
However, Plaintiffs do not appear to point to any evidence that Leslie
Hererra, Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, Maria Ponce de Leon, or Maria
Xocoy purportedly engaged in an unauthorized entry onto the subject property. (Civic Western Corp. v. Zila Industries, Inc., supra,
66 Cal.App.3d at p. 16.) Indeed, in
the opposition, Plaintiffs concede that “even if none of the
other defendants physically trespassed on private property during the mobs,
which Plaintiffs neither confirm nor deny, as they do not have sufficient
information to make that determination, every defendant can be held liable
for tortious acts committed by other members of the violent mob…” (Opp’n at p.
18:11-14, emphasis added.) 
Plaintiffs
also assert that “Defendants…engaged in egregious and severe acts
that give rise to the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.” (Opp’n at p. 15:15-17.) In his supporting declaration, Mr. Marzwell
states that “[o]n February 20, 2021, the mobsters yelled obscenities and
vulgarities towards me while my family and I, including my three minor
children, were inside…” (Marzwell Decl., ¶ 32.) However, Mr. Marzwell does not
appear to identify who the referenced “mobsters” are. (Ibid.)
It is unclear from Mr. Marzwell’s declaration if the unidentified “mobsters”
include Defendants. 
Mr. Marzwell also states that “[a]n individual, acting on behalf of
Defendants, climbed the 7-foot tall entry of the property and opened the gate
to allow other mobsters to push furniture into the entryway blocking the
ability of my family and me to leave the property and seek safety.” (Marzwell
Decl., ¶ 33.) Mr. Marzwell states that “[t]he individual who opened the gate,
accompanied by Ramirez, whom all the deposed defendants admitted to knowing and
who attended the meeting with the Madison Property tenants, yelled into
bullhorns, made loud noises and used vulgarities, and threatened me with
physical violence.” (Marzwell Decl., ¶ 34.) However, Plaintiffs do not appear
to assert that this referenced “individual” includes any of the Defendants. It
is unclear how the actions of a separate individual result in the Defendants
here engaging in intentional infliction of emotional distress, and Plaintiffs
do not appear to cite any legal authority to support such proposition.   
Plaintiffs
also assert in the opposition that “Defendants, and each of them,
by way of the pre-meditated mob, engaged in behavior that can best be described
as assault or conspiracy to commit assault and/or trespass.” (Opp’n at p.
14:18-19.) As an initial matter, Plaintiffs’ FAC does not allege causes of
action for assault, conspiracy to commit assault, or conspiracy to commit
trespass. The Court notes that “[t]he pleadings set
the boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment.” (Nativi v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 261, 289 [internal quotations omitted].) “[S]ummary
judgment cannot be denied on a
ground not raised by the pleadings.” (Id. at p. 290 [internal emphasis omitted].)
In the opposition, Plaintiffs also assert that “each defendant is
liable for the collective actions of the mob.” (Opp’n at p. 15:19.) 
First, Plaintiffs assert that “there
is a clear agency relationship between the tenants at the Madison Property and
the LATU.”[5] (Opp’n
at p. 17:4-5.) Plaintiffs cite to Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 953, 969, where the Court of Appeal noted that “a principal may be liable for the wrongful conduct of its
agent, even if that conduct is criminal, in one of three ways: (1) if the
principal directly authorizes … [the tort or] crime to be committed; (2)
if the agent commits the tort in the scope of his employment and in performing
service on behalf of the principal, regardless of whether the wrong is
authorized or ratified by [the principal], and even if the wrong is criminal;
or (3) if the principal ratifies its agent’s conduct after the fact by…voluntar[ily]
elect[ing] to adopt the [agent’s] conduct … as its own.” (Internal quotations
and citations omitted.) 
            Plaintiffs
assert that “[t]he tenants at the Madison Property enlisted the help of
the LATU to resolve their issues with Owner.” (Opp’n at p. 17:5-7.) But the
Court does not see how this shows that Defendants are purportedly “liable for the wrongful conduct of [their] agent,” which
Plaintiffs appear to assert is LATU. (Doe v.
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at p. 969.)
Plaintiffs do not appear to argue that LATU engaged in trespass or intentional
infliction of emotional distress. In addition, Plaintiffs
do not appear to explain how Defendants purportedly “directly
authorize[d]…[the tort or] crime to be committed,” how LATU purportedly “commit[ted]
the tort in the scope of his employment and in performing service on behalf of
the principal,” or how Defendants “ratifie[d] [their] agent’s conduct after the
fact by…voluntar[ily] elect[ing] to adopt the [agent’s] conduct…as [their]
own.” (Ibid.
[internal quotations omitted].) 
 Next, Plaintiffs assert that
“the mobsters were acting within their scope of association with the LATU and
were performing these attacks on behalf of the tenants of the Madison
Property.” (Opp’n at p. 17:27-28.) The Court notes that it is unclear who the
referenced “mobsters” are, and if Plaintiffs’ reference to “mobsters” pertains
to each of the Defendants. In addition, Plaintiffs do not cite any legal
authority supporting the proposition that Defendants are liable for trespass or
intentional infliction of emotional distress here because they were purportedly
“acting within their scope of association with the LATU...” (Opp’n at p.
17:27.) 
In addition, in the motion, Defendants cite to NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co. (1982) 458 U.S. 886,
920, where the
United States Supreme Court noted that “[c]ivil
liability may not be imposed merely because an individual belonged to a group,
some members of which committed acts of violence. For liability to be imposed
by reason of association alone, it is necessary to establish that the group
itself possessed unlawful goals and that the individual held a specific intent
to further those illegal aims.” Here, Plaintiffs do not appear to argue or
provide evidence showing that the “LATU” or the Madison Tenants Union possessed unlawful goals or that Defendants held a
specific intent to further any such illegal aims. In the opposition, Plaintiffs
do not appear to address this holding in NAACP.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether Reina Estrada trespassed onto the
subject Property. The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have raised a triable
issue of material fact as to the first cause of action for trespass as to Leslie
Hererra, Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, Maria Ponce de Leon, or Maria
Xocoy. In addition, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have raised a
triable issue of material fact as to any of the Defendants as to the second
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment is denied. Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is
granted as to first cause of action of the FAC as to Leslie Hererra,
Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, Maria Ponce de Leon, and Maria Xocoy.
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is denied as
to first cause of action of the FAC as to Reina Estrada. 
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the
second cause of action off the FAC as to each of the Defendants - Leslie
Hererra, Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, Reina Estrada, Maria Ponce de
Leon, and Maria Xocoy. 
The
Court orders Leslie Hererra, Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia,
Maria Ponce de Leon, and Maria Xocoy to file and serve a proposed judgment
within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿¿¿¿  
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


