  Case Number:  23STCV17653    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants’
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint
            Defendants
Parvin Golshan, individually and as trustee of the Parvin Golshan Living Trust,
Jean-Pierre Okhovat, and Paul Aslan move to strike three portions of the
complaint by plaintiffs James Griffiths, Carolyn Sayles, Ty Thomas Sayles, and
Jett Thomas Sayles.  
Defendants move to strike portions of the
complaint regarding punitive damages.  Courts may strike such allegations where the
facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice, oppression or fraud
necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  “[A]bsent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.  The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “Used in its
ordinary sense, the adjective ‘despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to
circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiffs allege
sufficient facts for malice or oppression.  “ ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(c)(1).)  “ ‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2).)  “To support an award of punitive damages on
the basis of conscious disregard of the safety of others, a plaintiff ‘must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences.’ ”  (Penner v. Falk (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)
The complaint
alleges, “Soon after they moved in” to the subject property in January 2021, “Plaintiffs
began noticing many defects and issues at the Property – the most concerning
being the extremely antiquated and dangerous electrical system at the Property,
which gave rise to several dangerous electrical-based incidents.”  (¶ 14.) 
Plaintiffs further allege, “Throughout Plaintiffs’ residency at the
Property, despite repeated requests by the Plaintiffs,” defendants “either
refused to perform necessary repairs or addressed the issues incompetently
and/or ineffectively causing the Property to fall into disrepair by allowing”
numerous uninhabitable or dangerous conditions “to exist.”  (¶ 16.) 
“Despite their legal and contractual obligations to do so, Defendants
refused to repair the Conditions or attempted to do so in an ineffective
manner.”  (¶ 18.)
The complaint also
alleges, “Defendants received numerous notices to repair the Conditions,
particularly the extremely antiquated and dangerous electrical system at the
Property, which gave rise to several dangerous electrical-based incidents.  Defendants were aware of the likely dangerous
consequences that would flow from neglecting to repair the electrical system,
and upon receipt of these notices became even more aware that one of the
Plaintiffs might be seriously injured as a result of the dangerous electrical
system.  Nevertheless, Defendants
willfully and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (¶ 29; see also ¶ 44 [repeating these
allegations about defendant Golshan].)
On the pleadings,
alleging that defendants knew of and failed to remediate dangerous conditions from
2021 to 2023 suffices to constitute despicable conduct done in conscious
disregard of plaintiffs’ right to habitable housing and of plaintiffs’ safety.  The court cannot conclude that, as a matter
of law, such conduct is not despicable, malicious, or oppressive.  These allegations are analogous to the facts
in Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279.  There, the defendant knew of “a very
dangerous condition” on its premises, and its “inattention to the danger showed
a complete lack of concern regarding the harmful potential the probability and
likelihood of injury” sufficed to constitute malice.  (Id. at p. 288.) 

Defendants argue the
allegations show no more than negligence because the complaint alleges they
tried to repair the unsafe conditions.  Though
the complaint alleges unsuccessful attempts to repair the conditions, it does
so in the alternative.  (¶¶ 16, 18.)  It alleges defendants “either refused to
perform necessary repairs or” failed to correct them (¶ 16) and that
“Defendants refused to repair the Conditions or attempted to do so in an
ineffective manner” (¶ 18).  Trying and
failing to correct dangerous conditions may not rise to the level of malice or
oppression, but plaintiff also alleges in the alternative that defendants
deliberately refused to perform repairs. 

Disposition
Defendants Parvin Golshan, individually and
as trustee of the Parvin Golshan Living Trust, Jean-Pierre Okhovat, and Paul
Aslan’s motion to strike is denied. 
Defendants are ordered to answer within 20 days.