  Case Number:  19STCV28264    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-25-24
Case #19STCV28264,
Rody Castroll vs. California Police Athletic Federation, et al.
Trial Date: 11-4-24
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Bell Sports, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion for
Summary Judgment
 
RULING: Motion
for summary judgment is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Rody
Castroll (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant Bell Sports, Inc., (Defendant
Bell) and other defendants on August 9, 2019.
 
On August 11,
2017, Plaintiff alleges that the decedent, Jacob Castroll, sustained fatal
injuries while participating in a cycling event as part of the 2017 World
Police and Fire Games. Plaintiff alleges that at the time of the accident,
Jacob Castroll was wearing a White Giro Indicator helmet that was purportedly
placed into commerce by Defendant Bell. Plaintiff, as Jacob’s surviving spouse,
alleged causes of action against Defendant Bell for strict product liability
and negligence related to the purportedly defective helmet and improper design,
manufacture, etc., of the helmet. Plaintiff alleges that the defects caused
Jacob’s death. Plaintiff seeks compensatory as well as punitive damages against
Bell for the strict products liability cause of action.
 
On November 30,
2022, Bell propounded requests for admissions on Plaintiff. After Plaintiff
failed to respond to the Requests for Admissions, Bell filed a motion to deem
admitted the truth of the matters specified in the requests. This Court, Judge
Pfahler presiding, granted Bell’s motion on September 27, 2023, and deemed
admitted the truth of the matters specified in Bell’s request for admissions to
Plaintiff. The admitted requests for admissions establish that Plaintiff has no
evidence to support either of her two causes of action against Bell.
 
Plaintiff has
not filed any opposition to Bell’s motion, and notices mailed to Plaintiff by
the Court have been returned stating that Plaintiff did not live at the address
that Plaintiff provided to the Court and had no forwarding address.
 
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice: Defendant has requested that the Court take
judicial notice of documents that have been filed in this matter. The Court
grants this request.
 
ANALYSIS
The purpose of
a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions,
“since it is those allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.
App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development,
Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
As Defendant
Bell argues in its motion, the motion for summary judgment can be granted just
on the basis that the requests for admissions were deemed admitted stated that
Plaintiff has no evidence to support her two causes of action against Bell. The
Court will, however, briefly address the three issues outlined in Bell’s
motion.
 
            Issue 1
Bell argues
that the first cause of action for Strict Products Liability fails as a matter
of law as against Bell because there is no causal nexus between the alleged
defects in the helmet that the decedent, Jacob, was wearing at the time of his accident
and his death. (See UMF Nos. 1-8.)
 
In product
liability actions, a theory of strict liability may be invoked for three types
of alleged defects – manufacturing defects, design defects, and “warning
defects,” i.e., inadequate warnings or failures to warn. (See Anderson v.
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 987, 995.)
 
First, the
admission Bell’s requests for admissions demonstrates that Plaintiff has no
evidence to support this cause of action against Bell. Bell also argues that
there is no evidence of a causal nexus between the helmet and the decedent’s
injuries because he did not sustain any head injuries from the accident, only
spinal cord injuries.
 
Bell’s motion
is granted for the first issue related to the cause of action for strict
products liability.
 
            Issue 2
Bell next
argues that the second cause of action for negligence fails as a matter of law
as against Bell because there is no causal nexus between Bell’s purported
negligence and the Decedent’s death. (See UMF Nos. 1-9.)
 
Similar to the
previous cause of action, there is no evidence to support this cause of action,
nor is there any evidence that there was a causal nexus between the helmet and
Jacob’s death.
 
Bell’s motion
is granted for the second issue related to the cause of action for negligence.
 
            Issue 3
Finally, Bell
argues that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages against Bell fails as a
matter of law because there is no evidence to support the alleged conduct on
which Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is based. (See UMF Nos. 10-12.)
 
First, the
admitted requests for admissions established that Plaintiff has no evidence to
support her punitive damages claim. Plaintiff has also not filed an opposition
to Bell’s motion for summary judgment or otherwise demonstrated that she has
evidence to support her claim for punitive damages.
 
Bell’s motion
is granted for the third issue related to punitive damages.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant
Bell’s motion for summary judgment is granted in its entirety. Defendant Bell
is ordered to submit a proposed judgment.
 
Moving party to
give notice.