 Case Number:  22CHCV00488    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-25-24
Case #22CHCV00488,
John Pule Rodriguez, et. al. vs. Ford Motor Company, et al.
Trial Date: 6-16-25
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
John Pule Rodriguez and Juan Pule Lopez
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs request
leave to file a First Amended Complaint
 
RULING:
Motion for leave to amend is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On July 25,
2023, Plaintiffs John Pule Rodriguez and Juan Pule Lopez (Plaintiffs) filed their
original complaint in this Lemon Law case. Plaintiffs’ original complaint had
two Song-Beverly Act causes of action against Defendant Ford Motor Company and
one cause of action for negligent repair against Defendant Perry Ford of Santa
Barbara.
 
Plaintiffs
represent in their motion that substantial discovery has not been completed at
this point. The trial is not until June 16, 2025.
 
On May 3, 2024,
prior to a date for trial being set, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave to
file a first amended complaint (FAC). Plaintiffs seek to add a cause of action
for fraudulent inducement-concealment against Defendant Ford Motor Company
(Ford) to their complaint, as well as related allegations. Plaintiffs also seek
to add a prayer for punitive damages.
 
Ford opposes
Plaintiffs’ motion, arguing that the amended complaint is futile and flawed. Ford
also argues that allowing Plaintiffs to amend their complaint would be
prejudicial to Ford. Finally, Ford argues that Plaintiffs’ motion does not
comport with Cal. Rule of Court Rule 3.1324.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that Ford fails to establish prejudice beyond merely
defending against a new claim. Next, Plaintiffs argue that Ford’s timeliness
argument lacks merit. Plaintiffs also argue that Ford’s challenge to the merits
of Plaintiffs’ proposed amended complaint is premature and would be better left
to a demurrer.
 
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice: Ford has requested that the Court take judicial of
lemon law complaints filed in other jurisdictions. The Court will take judicial
notice of these documents, but only as to their existence, not for the truth of
any matter asserted therein.
 
ANALYSIS
Courts are
authorized, in their discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) CCP § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge, at any time before
or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such
terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any pleading . . .” (CCP §
576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to file an amended pleading
rests in the court’s sound discretion.
 
Leave to amend
is to be liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including
trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see
also County of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern
County (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be
granted amendment even at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of
liberally granting amendments at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show
both actual prejudice and inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at
487.) Prejudice exists where an amendment to a complaint would result in a
delay of trial; loss of critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and
increased burden of discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
 
Trial in this
case is close to eleven months away. Ford would not be prejudiced in that
regard if leave to amend were granted. Additionally, Plaintiffs represent that only
minimal discovery has been conducted. Ford argues that there was an inexcusable
delay in filing this motion because Plaintiffs’ original complaint was filed several
months ago. However, complaints can be amended up to and including trial. While
a trial date has now been set, there was not even a trial date yet when
Plaintiffs filed their motion for leave to amend. There would be little
prejudice to Ford if Plaintiffs’ motion is granted.
 
Ford also
attempts to argue the merits of the amendments. However, as Plaintiffs argue in
their reply, it is premature to argue the merits of the amendment. That type of
challenge is better left for a demurrer. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048; Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760 [“the better course of action would have been to allow
[plaintiff] to amend the complaint and then let the parties test its legal
sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”].) Plaintiffs also argue that
they have sufficiently pleaded a cause of action for fraudulent
inducement-concealment. The Court will leave the sufficiency of this cause of
action for future proceedings.
 
Finally, Ford
argues that Plaintiffs have not complied with the requirements of Cal. Rules of
Court Rule 3.1324(b) because the declaration submitted with Plaintiffs’ motion
does not say when they discovered the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations. (CRC Rule 3.1324(b)(3).) Ford also argues that Plaintiffs have
failed to satisfy the fourth prong of that rule, which requires the declaration
to state the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC
Rule 3.1324(b)(4).)
 
Plaintiffs do
not address this argument in their reply. However, the attorney declaration
submitted with Plaintiffs’ motion states that “During the course of litigation,
my firm has discovered the widespread nature of the 10R80 transmission defect
and sufficient facts to support allegations regarding Ford’s presale knowledge
and concealment of the defect.” (Lopez Decl., ¶ 6.) This appears to fulfill the
third prong because it indicates that Plaintiffs did not discover the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations until after the initial complaint was
filed. It should also satisfy the fourth prong because Plaintiffs did not
discover the information for these allegations until recently. This paragraph
from the Lopez Declaration is sufficient to satisfy the requirements of CRC
Rule 3.1324(b).
 
There is a
policy of liberally granting leave to amend. Because Ford has been unable to
show prejudice or inexcusable delay, and because trial is close to eleven
months away, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a first
amended complaint.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint is granted. The proposed
First Amended Complaint filed with Plaintiffs’ motion is deemed filed.
 
Moving party to
give notice.Dept. F43Date: 7-25-24Case #22CHCV00488,
RSG Foods, LLC, et al. vs. T.H. Investments, LLCTrial Date: N/A MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
RSG Foods, LLC, Neal Scott, and Haydee ScottRESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed. RELIEF
REQUESTEDFor the Court
to enforce the settlement between the parties and enter judgment. RULING: Motion
to enforce settlement is granted. SUMMARY OF
ACTIONPlaintiffs RSG
Foods, LLC, Neal Scott, and Haydee Scott (Plaintiffs) have filed a motion to
enforce settlement pursuant to CCP § 664.6. Plaintiff filed this motion because
Defendant TH Investments, LLC (Defendant) has not complied with the terms of a
written settlement agreement made between the parties that was entered into on March
21, 2024. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant has breached the settlement agreement by failing to
timely repair all leaks in the roof of the premises within 60 days from March
17, 2024, and shall be responsible for any resulting damage to the premises
from future additional roof leaks that may arise until the expiration of the
lease. (Stelnick Decl., Ex. 1, pp. 2-3.) ANALYSISCCP § 664.6
provides that “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed
by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court,
for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties,
the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement
until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” When
considering a CCP § 664.6 motion, “the trial court must determine whether the
parties entered into a valid and binding settlement of all or part of the case.
In making this determination, trial judges, in the sound exercise of their
discretion, may receive oral testimony or may determine the motion upon
declarations alone.” (Corkland v. Boscoe (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 989, 994;
Fiore v. Alvord (1985) 182 Cal.App.3d 561, 565.) Plaintiffs have
made this motion pursuant to CCP § 664.6. The parties stipulated to the settlement
of this case. The Court, by virtue of Plaintiffs filing this motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. Additionally, the
agreement between the parties allowed the Court to retain jurisdiction over the
parties in order to enforce the settlement.  Plaintiffs
provided a declaration from their attorney with only the settlement agreement
attached as an exhibit. The declaration claims that Plaintiffs’ attorney has
personal knowledge that Defendant has failed to make any repairs to the roof of
the premises as of May 22, 2024. (Stelnick Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) There are no
declarations from Plaintiffs themselves indicating that the roof has not been
repaired. The Court may request a further evidentiary showing by either Plaintiffs’
counsel or Plaintiffs themselves. Plaintiffs’
motion to enforce settlement is granted pending a further evidentiary showing. Moving party to
give notice.
