  Case Number:  23CHCV02733    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-6-24
Case #23CHCV02733,
George Matar vs. Bimmerhead Werx LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Bimmerhead Werx LLC and Jessie Rueckel
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff George Matar
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants are requesting
that the Court enter an order setting aside or vacating the default and default
judgment entered against them.
 
RULING: Defendants’
motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On September 11,
2023, Plaintiff George Matar (Plaintiff) filed this breach of contract case
against Defendants Bimmerhead Werx LLC and Jessie Rueckel (Defendants).
 
On October 9,
2023, Plaintiff filed proof of personal service indicating that Defendants were
served via substituted service at 3148 Orange Ave., La Crescenta-Montrose, CA
91214 on September 23, 2023. A Jane Doe accepted the service at Rueckel’s listed
address. Defendant Jessie Rueckel is also the registered agent for service of
process for Defendant Bimmerhead Werx LLC, so the Defendants were both served
via substituted service at Rueckel’s listed address. The proofs of substituted
service also include proofs of service by mail, as well as declarations of
reasonable diligence indicating the other attempts at personal service.
Plaintiff filed his requests for entry of default on June 20, June 21, and June
25, 2024, which were entered on those days. Thereafter, default judgment was
entered against Defendants on July 9, 2024.
 
Previously, on
September 10, 2024, this Court denied without prejudice Defendants’ motion to
set aside default that was filed on July 12, 2024, because Defendants had a
failed to attach a copy of their proposed responsive pleading to the motion. On
September 16, 2024, Defendants refiled their motion to set aside default.
 
Defendants
argues in their new motion to set aside default that they did not receive
actual notice of the lawsuit and did not learn of the lawsuit until default had
been entered. Defendants also argue that the entry of default and default
judgment was the product of surprise. Next, they argue that the service of
summons was not statutorily compliant. Finally, Defendants argue that the
default judgment is void because Defendant Bimmerhead Werx was not properly
named in the complaint. Defendants have submitted a proposed answer with their
motion.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that Defendant Rueckel has failed to show that the
judgment was entered by surprise. Next, Plaintiff argues that Defendants have
failed to demonstrate that the default and default judgment was caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Finally, Plaintiff
argues that the default judgment is not void because the proper Defendants have
been properly named, served by Code-compliant means, and apprised of the nature
of the claims.
 
Defendants
argue in their reply that Defendant Rueckel has demonstrated that the judgment
was taken against her by surprise. Defendants also argue that they have
demonstrated that the default judgment was taken by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendants
filed this motion pursuant to CCP §§ 473(b) and 473.5.
 
CCP § 473(b)
reads as follows:
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.
 
CCP § 473.5
states as follows: 
(a)   When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years
after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days
after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered.
(b)   A
notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date
prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by
an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time
to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of
the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of section 473, et
seq., should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See
Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
 
Defendants
appears to argue that the entry of the default judgment was the result of their
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect because their attorney
did not calendar the July 8, 2024, Case Management Conference and did not
appear at that Conference. Defendants claim that they learned of the entry of
default on June 20, 2024. Thereafter, they retained an attorney on June 25,
2024, but their attorney did not know about the CMC on July 8.
 
Even if Defendants’
attorney had appeared at the CMC on July 8, default had already been entered. An
appearance by their attorney may have delayed the entry of judgment, but it
would not have prevented the initial default from having been entered.
Therefore, Defendant can possibly claim that the default judgment was taken as
a result of attorney mistake pursuant to CCP § 473(b), but not the initial
default itself.
 
Next,
Defendants argue that entry of default against Defendant Rueckel should be set
aside pursuant to CCP § 473.5 because she did not receive actual notice of the
lawsuit. The proofs of service indicate that Rueckel was served via substituted
service at her residence. The proof of service describe a co-tenant Jane Doe
who accepted service at Rueckel’s residence on her behalf. However, Rueckel
claims that she does not know who the described co-tenant is, and she claims
that she has never held a formal residence at the listed address, nor did she
receive service of the Bimmerhead Werx documents at its business address.
(Rueckel Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that at the time of service on September 23, 2023,
Rueckel was listed as the authorized agent of service for Bimmerhead Werx, and
her address for service was listed as 3148 Orange Avenue, La Crescenta,
California, on the California Secretary of State’s website. (Opposition, Ex.
B.) That is the address listed on the proofs of service. Defendants confusingly
argue in their reply that because the entity address in the Opposition’s
Exhibit B was different from the agent address where Defendants were served,
that somehow creates a discrepancy. The entity address was 26502 Ruether Ave
Ste 114, Santa Clarita, CA 91350. The agent address in La Crescenta was changed
to the entity address in Santa Clarita on October 20, 2023, but that was after
Defendants would have been served at the La Crescenta address. (Opposition, Ex.
C.) The La Crescenta address was the agent address on the day of service.
 
The return of
process is prima facie evidence of proper service. (Los Angeles v. Morgan
(1951) 105 Cal.2d 726, 731.) The proof of service filed by Plaintiff conforms
with the requirements of CCP §§ 415.10 and 417.10 and is facially valid.
Defendants claim that they could not have been served at the La Crescenta
address, yet the evidence shows that they were served via substituted service
at the La Crescenta address, and they have failed to rebut that evidence. The
Court has serious doubts about Defendants’ claimed reasons for not having been
served. For that reason, their motion cannot be granted based on CCP §
473.5. 
 
Next,
Defendants argue that the default should be set aside based on their own
surprise pursuant to CCP § 473(b). Defendants claim that they did not learn of
the default until the notice of default on June 20, 2024. Defendants have not
sufficiently represented how the default was taken by surprise. Instead, their
argument that the default was taken by surprise is based entirely on their
argument that they were never served, but as previously noted, they have not
provided sufficient evidence that they were not served. 
 
Finally,
Defendants argue that Bimmerhead Werx was not a proper defendant in this matter.
Defendants argue that Bimmerhead Werx does not perform the electronic tuning
that Plaintiff alleges it performed. (Rueckel Decl., ¶ 2.) Default judgments
are void when an improper party is named. (See CCP § 474.)
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that Bimmerhead Werx was a proper defendant because
the evidence, including invoices, attached to Plaintiff’s complaint
demonstrates that Bimmerhead Werx did the work because it refused to let anyone
outside of its shop performing the tuning. (Comp., Ex. 2.) Additionally, Bimmerhead
Werx and Bimmerhead’s invoices are identical in terms of font, logo, and phone
number, and Defendants produced no evidence apart from Rueckel’s declaration that
they were separate entities. Defendants could have provided documents from the California
Secretary of State showing that they were separate entities, but they have not
done so. Furthermore, upon the entry of default judgment, the Court had found
that Plaintiff had presented enough evidence to enter default against
Bimmerhead Werx. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants have not presented sufficient evidence to set aside or
vacate the default and default judgment entered against them. Defendant’s
motion to set aside default is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’
motion to set aside and vacate entry of default and default judgment is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.