  Case Number:  20STCV15846    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  57 Here are the tentative rulings on the Defendants' Motions in Limine1.   Denied.  Not necessary as to "the Golden Rule," and too broad and uncertain as to the "Reptile Theory," which seems like a strawman.2.  Denied under Fernandez v. Jimenez (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 482.3.   Denied under Bermudez v. Ciolek (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1311.4.   Granted.  Unopposed by Plaintiffs.5.   Granted as to the traffic collision report writ large, but denied as to statements therein by (a) the reporting officer that fall within the ambit of the government record exception to the hearsay rule, or (b) witnesses/observers that satisfy some other exception to the hearsay rule.6.  Granted.  Unopposed by Plaintiffs.7.   Granted.  The caption of this motion is redundant of MIL # 6 and does not match what is sought in the motion.    But what is sought seems legitimate given that the statement of Cristian Valdez Gonzalez in his deposition that he is not requesting emotional distress damages appears unequivocal.8.   Granted to the extent statements made in the videos or social media posts constitute hearsay that are not subject to some exception to the hearsay rule.9.  Denied.10.  Granted.  The Court disagrees with Plaintiffs' argument that Evidence Code Section 1220's exception to the hearsay rule applies to the statements in question of Carlos Turcios. 11.  Denied.12.  Denied.13.  Denied.  Too broad  and unnecessary.  If Plaintiffs seek to introduce evidence not disclosed in discovery, Defendants may object at the time.l14.  Granted as to news and media reports on the subject of the soccer game, but denied as to posts on the LASD's twitter/X account.Here are the tentative rulings on Plaintiffs' motions in limine 1.  Denied.  Motion addresses six different matters under a heading that really does not speak to all the matters encompassed in the motion.  In any event, Plaintiffs' are wrong as to matter number 4, which speaks to bar Defendants from eliciting evidence that Plaintiffs were referred to medical providers by their attorneys.  2.   Granted under Smith v. Covell (1980) 100 Cal.App3d 947.3.    Granted.  Unopposed.4.    Denied.  "Independent" is in the phrase "IME."  Plaintiffs can address purported "independence" at trial.5.  Granted.  But this does not preclude Defendants' experts from pointing out inconsistencies in Plaintiffs' medical records that may speak to  Plaintiffs' credibility.6.    Denied, albeit subject to specific hearsay objections.  The evidence is relevant, as Defendants point out, to the claimed damages.7.    Granted.8.   Denied.  Evidence Code Section 1220 does not apply to Turcois's statements.9.   Grant to the extent that the motion seeks to bar Keeshawn's opinion about an incident he did not observe and to the extent that it seeks bar him from offering an accident reconstruction opinion based on testimony of witnesses to it.10   There is no number 1011.   Granted, but subject to Defendants' ability to present evidence as to what insurers would pay, which speaks to the reasonableness of the bills.12.   There is no number 12.13.   Granted, subject though to possible use of the settlement to touch on credibility of Sylvia14.   Denied.  Premature.  Plaintiffs need to identify specific videos and let Defendants know.15-18.  To be discussed