  Case Number:  20STCV29494    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  5, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV29494




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant State of California acting by and
  through the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, and Ignacio Arce 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Yonghun Kim 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 8, 2020, Plaintiff Yonghun
Kim (Plaintiff) filed this action
against Defendants Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, and
Ignacio Arce (Defendants), and Does 1 to 100, for injuries relating to a motor
vehicle accident. Plaintiff alleges he suffered a traumatic brain injury due to
the incident. 
 
Plaintiff has agreed to a defense mental health examination. Dr.
Mi-Yeoung Jo is Defendant’s neuropsychologist expert who is set to conduct the
examination. However, Dr. Jo requires that she be the only person allowed to
record the testing portion of the examination and that the recording must be
sent directly to a licensed psychologist or neuropsychologist instead of
Plaintiff directly. Plaintiff asserts he has the right to record the entire
examination. 
 
Defendants now move for an order preventing third-party recording of
the testing portion of Plaintiffs defense mental health examination. They also ask
that the recording be sent directly to a licensed psychologist or
neuropsychologist of Plaintiff’s choosing following the examination. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020 courts
“shall limit the scope of discovery if” the court “determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
A “court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order
by a party or other affected person.” (Id.) The “motion shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.” (Id.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530 states, “The
examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by
audio technology.” Additionally, a party who submits to a mental examination can
demand: (1) “a copy of a detailed written report setting out the history,
examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner;” and (2) “a copy of reports of all
earlier examinations of the same condition of the examinee made by that or any
other examiner.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610(a).) 
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The Court finds that
Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirements by attempting to
informally resolve the issue. (Li Decl. ¶ 3–6.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants contend that to comply with Dr. Jo’s professional obligations
as a licensed neuropsychologist, Dr. Jo must be the only one to record the
testing portion of the DME and the recording must be sent directly to a
licensed psychologist or neuropsychologist. Plaintiff contends that he is
entitled under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530 to record the
examination, and that the examination should be sent to counsel subject to a
protective order. Both parties discuss a recently published opinion from the
Court of Appeal, Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 518, 308 Cal.Rptr.3d 645, which involved a similar set of
facts and addressed many of the same concerns Dr. Jo has expressed, but still
ruled in favor of permitting the entire examination to be recorded and
disclosed to the examinee’s attorney subject to a protective order.
 
As an initial matter, Defendants do not explain why Plaintiff recording
the interview – as opposed to Dr. Jo recording the interview – violates Dr.
Jo’s ethical responsibilities. Dr. Jo cites to California Code of Regulations,
Title 16, section 1396.3, which describes the reproduction or description of
any assessment devices. To the extent that Dr. Jo agrees to record the
interview (but not disseminate it to anyone other than a licensed
professional), nothing about the regulation cited by Dr. Jo prohibits Plaintiff
from recording the interview. Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.530 plainly gives Plaintiff, as the examinee, the right to record the
examination. Plaintiff has indicated that Plaintiff will be the only one
present during the interview.
 
Defendants also argue that Dr. Jo should be permitted to send the
recording to Plaintiff’s expert first, who Defendants argue can then give the
recording to Plaintiff or counsel. Defendants argue that the “tension between
maintaining testing confidentiality and Plaintiff’s right to discovery” is best
resolved by having “Plaintiff’s own psychologist expert determine how best to
handle the recording of the confidential portions of Plaintiff’s DME.” (Motion
at pg. 7.) The Court disagrees. It is the Court’s responsibility to resolve
this “tension,” not Plaintiff’s expert’s responsibility. The Court of Appeal in
Randy’s Trucking upheld the trial court’s decision directing the
neuropsychologist to transmit the recording to the plaintiff’s counsel on
multiple grounds, such as protecting against abuses and disputes over what
transpired during the examination, ensuring the examiner does not overstep the
bounds set by the court for the mental examination, and enabling the attorney
to have more than a second-hand understanding of the information being
scrutinized. (308 Cal.Rptr.3d, supra, at p. 661.) The Court of Appeal also
disagreed that requiring the transmission of such items and information was
prohibited by California Code of Regulations section 1396.3, as that regulation
does not address or prohibit compliance with court orders. (Id. at p.
661.) The Court of Appeal further noted that the Legislature did not codify an
“expert-to-expert limitation .…” (Id. at p. 669.)
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendants’ request for a protective order.
However, the Court would consider a different protective order that designates certain
materials as confidential and limits the use and disclosure of those materials.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion for Protective Order. 
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.