 Case Number:  21STCV42663    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  5, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV42663




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Deposition of Defendant City of Los Angeles’ “Person Most Qualified”




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Savanna Stranger




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Savanna Stranger (Plaintiff) noticed the deposition of the Defendant
City of Los Angeles’ “Person Most Qualified” for April 11, 2023. Plaintiff
previously took the deposition of City of Los Angeles’ (City) PMQ, William
Candlish, who was unfamiliar with certain topics relating to the Department of
Public Works. 
 
Plaintiff now brings this motion asserting that City has repeatedly
taken the subsequent deposition off calendar, without serving objections. 
 
The opposition was due September 21, 2023. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to
take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the
specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the
deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a) provides: “If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  Section 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under section 2025.410. 
 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
  
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff cannot move the court to compel a deposition until the
deponent fails to appear. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).)
 According to Plaintiff, the
noticed depositions have been taken off calendar voluntarily. (Heimanson Decl.
¶ 7–10.) Nowhere does Plaintiff assert that they noticed a deposition, City
failed to appear, or that they received a certificate of non-appearance.
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective and is denied without
prejudice.  
 
However, the Court strongly encourages the parties to meet and confer telephonically
or in person to avoid the need for further motions or requests for sanctions on
this issue.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff Savanna Stranger’s Motion to
Compel Deposition of Defendant City of Los Angeles’ “Person Most Qualified”
without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 