 Case Number:  21STCV26144    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  5, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV26144




MOTIONS:  


Request
  for Admissions, Set One Deemed Admitted  




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Defendant), moves to have Request for
Admissions, Set One Deemed Admitted. Defendant asserts that on November 8, 2022,
it served Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff Arturo Robles Bermudez’s
then-counsel via email and U.S. mail. (Ortega Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendant granted several discovery extensions
until April 12, 2023. (Id. ¶ 13.) On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel moved to
be relieved; the Court granted the motion. (Min. Order, May 15, 2023.)
Plaintiff has been a self-represented litigant since then.
 
            On August 17, 2023, Defendant mailed
a letter to Plaintiff explaining that it intended to move to deem the requests
admitted and would seek monetary sanctions. Defendant asserts it received no
response. (Id. ¶ 19, 20, Exh. 13.) On August 23, 2023, Defendant mailed a
second letter explaining the same information in more detail but received no
response. (Id. ¶ 21, Exh. 14.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant represents it has not
received responses to the Requests for Admissions, Set One. The last deadline
to respond was April 12, 2023. Defendant’s attempts to contact Plaintiff have
been unsuccessful and Plaintiff has neither served responses nor an opposition
to this motion. 
 
            Defendant requests monetary
sanctions for $1,150.00 representing an hourly rate of $230, accounting for
three hours to draft the moving papers, two hours to read the opposition and
draft the reply, and one hour to attend the hearing. The Court finds the amount
of sanctions requested to be excessive, particularly given the nature of the
motion and the lack of an opposition. The grants monetary sanctions in the
amount of $460 (2 hours at $230).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to have Request for Admissions, Set
One Deemed Admitted, is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff
shall pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $460 to counsel for Defendant
within 30 days.
 
Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 