 Case Number:  20STCV36314    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  5, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV36314




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Binti-Michal Decohen-Miller by
  and through her guardian ad litem Jezreel Patricia Decohen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 22, 2020, Plaintiff Binti-Michal Decohen-Miller by and
through her guardian ad litem Jezreel Patricia Decohen (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendant RC Street Shop, LLC, Igor Orlov, and Does 1 to 100 (Defendants)
for negligence and premises liability.  
 
On May 11, 2023 Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement. The Court
scheduled an OSC Re: Dismissal (Settlement) on July 3, 2023. On July 3, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear and the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s
complaint without prejudice. 
 
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to set aside
the dismissal. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under Code of Civil Procedure § 473 when by reason of the
mistake a party failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a
party is unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence
of his own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown
some reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association
of California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162
Cal.App.3d 1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892,
905.)  Under Code of Civil Procedure § 473, the moving party bears the
burden of demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake,
justifying a court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger &
Wells (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) When relief from default and
default judgment is based on an attorney affidavit of fault, the six-month
period starts to run from the date of the entry of judgment. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, sub. (b); Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 295.)¿¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the
case was dismissed. 
 
            Secondly,
Plaintiff’s counsel attached a signed declaration to this motion. In it, he
explained that he did not appear at the hearing on July 3, 2023 because he was
out of the country at the time. (Salute Decl. ¶ 13.) He further stated that the
“policies and procedures were not followed” regarding his office’s calendaring
system due to “mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect, and surprise.” (Salute
Decl. ¶ 14.) Counsel further states that Plaintiff, who is a minor will be
prejudiced by the dismissal since the Court still needs to approve the minor’s
compromise. (Id. ¶ 16.) 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal (Settlement) for
November 6, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.