  Case Number:  24PSCV01954    Hearing Date:   August 22, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Julian  Sanchez, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al.  Defendants  Ford Motor Company’s and Ken Grody Ford’s Demurrer to the Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fifth Cause  of Action and SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action. The Court  will hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel whether leave to amend should be granted.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On June 17, 2024, plaintiffs Julian  Sanchez and Moises Sanchez (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against  defendants Ford Motor Company (Ford), Ken Grody Ford (erroneously sued as Ken  Grody Ford – Buena Park) (Ken Grody) (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1  through 10, alleging causes of action for violation of subdivision (d) of Civil  Code section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2,  violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2, breach of the  implied warranty of merchantability, fraudulent inducement – concealment, and  negligent repair.  On July 16, 2024, Defendants demurred to the complaint. On August  9, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. On August 15, 2024, Defendants  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)    DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Defendants were required to meet and confer in person or by telephone before  bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds  Defendants’ meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Liu Decl., ¶ 3.)  Fifth Cause of Action – Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment To plead a cause of action for fraudulent concealment, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) concealment or suppression of a  material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the  plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally  concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact  and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the  concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of  the concealment or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]” (Hambrick v.  Healthcare Partners Med. Grp., Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may  constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary  relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge  of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively  conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes  partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’  [Citation.]” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Defendants demur to the Fifth Cause of Action for fraudulent  inducement-concealment on the grounds that the complaint fails to state a cause  of action and on the grounds that it is barred by the economic loss rule.  Defendants contend Plaintiffs fail to plead the defect that Defendant Ford  allegedly concealed. Defendants contend Plaintiffs fail to allege a duty to  disclose, such as a direct transactional relationship, Ford’s exclusive  knowledge, active concealment, or that Ford made partial representations while  suppressing material facts. Defendants further contend this cause of action is barred by the  economic loss rule. Defendants argue the complaint does not contain any  allegations that Ford did not intend to honor its contractual promises when  Plaintiffs entered into the warranty agreement, and that Plaintiffs’ fraud  claim is the same as their warranty claims. In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that the heightened pleading  standard for fraud claims is relaxed in cases of fraudulent concealment.  Plaintiffs contend they have alleged sufficient facts to comply with Dhital  v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (Dhital) for  purposes of a fraudulent concealment claim. Plaintiffs contend a direct  transactional relationship is not required for the manufacturer to have a duty  to disclose. Plaintiffs also argue that the transmission defect is a material  fact, that the transmission defect poses safety risks, and that the  transmission defect arose during the warranty period. Plaintiffs further  contend that the economic loss rule does not bar a fraudulent concealment claim  because the duty of fair dealing is independent of the contract and because the  tortious conduct occurs before contract formation.   The Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to  state a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. First, the heightened  pleading standard for fraud claims is relaxed for fraudulent concealment  claims. (See Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System Planning Assn. (2009)  171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) Notwithstanding, the complaint alleges fraudulent  concealment with sufficient specificity. The complaint identifies the material  defects and facts that Ford allegedly knew and withheld from Plaintiffs before  they bought the subject vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 71-85.) The complaint alleges  facts showing that Ford had superior knowledge of the facts and how such  knowledge was obtained, (Compl., ¶¶ 39-50, 71-85); the safety risks posed by  the transmission defect, (Compl., ¶¶ 13, 49, 74-78); the materiality of  that information, (Compl., ¶ 80); that Plaintiffs were unaware of the concealed  defect and that they would not have purchased the subject vehicle had they  known of the concealed defect, (Compl., ¶¶ 49, 76, 78, 80); and that Ford  intended to defraud Plaintiffs by selling the subject vehicle to Plaintiffs  with its known transmission defects without disclosing them to Plaintiffs,  resulting in damages to Plaintiffs, (Compl., ¶¶ 79, 84-85). Second, with respect to a relationship imposing a  duty to disclose, the Court finds the complaint adequately alleges the  existence of a transactional relationship. (See LiMandri v. Judkins, supra, 52  Cal.App.4th at p. 336.) The Court reviewed Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 313-315 and is not persuaded otherwise at the pleading  stage. The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs and Ford entered into a warranty  agreement for the subject vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 7-8, Ex. A.) As noted above, the  complaint alleges that Ford was aware of the transmission defect before the  subject vehicle was sold to Plaintiffs but did not disclose that knowledge to  Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶ 49, 76-80.) The Court also finds that OCM Principal  Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th  835 stands for the proposition that a manufacturer has a duty to disclose  material facts to subsequent purchasers when the manufacturer has reason to  expect that the item will be resold, which the Court finds applicable in the  context of a manufacturer selling vehicles through a dealership. (See Id.,  at p. 851.)  Third, the Court finds that the economic loss rule  does not bar this fraudulent concealment claim. The Court agrees with  Defendants that the holding in Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)  34 Cal.4th 979, 993 (Robinson Helicopter) was limited to affirmative  misrepresentations. However, the Court still finds that the economic loss rule  does not apply to Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim.  The California Supreme Court granted review in Dhital  on February 1, 2023, such that Dhital no longer has precedential  effect on the issue of the economic loss rule; however, it may be cited for  persuasive value. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e).) Defendant  argues that the limited ruling in Robinson Helicopter should not extend  to fraudulent omission claims.  The California Supreme Court in Robinson  Helicopter specifically refused to address the issue of whether the  economic loss rule applies to concealment. (Robinson Helicopter, supra,  34 Cal.4th at p. 991.) This issue is currently pending before the California  Supreme Court in Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, review granted February  9, 2022, S272113. In Dhital, however, the Court of Appeal expressly  found that the economic loss rule did not apply to the plaintiffs’ concealment  claim, stating:  To hold, at the demurrer stage, that plaintiffs’  fraud claim is barred by the economic loss rule, we would need to conclude, as  Nissan urges us to do, that (1) despite the Supreme Court's statement in Robinson,  there is no exception to the economic loss rule for fraudulent inducement  claims (or at least no exception that encompasses the claim plaintiffs allege  in the SAC), or (2) plaintiffs have not adequately pleaded a claim for  fraudulent inducement under California law …. We reject both arguments and conclude  the economic loss rule does not bar plaintiffs’ claim.  (Dhital, supra, 84  Cal.App.5th at p. 839.) The Court of Appeal further stated:  Robinson left undecided whether  concealment-based claims are barred by the economic loss rule. What follows  from its analysis, however, is that concealment-based claims for fraudulent  inducement are not barred by the economic loss rule. The reasoning in Robinson  affirmatively places fraudulent inducement by concealment outside the coverage  of the economic loss rule. We now hold that the economic loss rule does not  cover such claims. First, as discussed, Robinson identified fraudulent  inducement as an existing exception to the economic loss rule, before it  proceeded to analyze the particular claims at issue in that case relating to  fraud during the performance of a contract. [Citation.] For fraudulent  inducement and the other existing exceptions listed in Robinson, “ ‘the duty  that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the  contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to  harm.’ ” [Citation.]  In our view, that independence is present in the case  of fraudulent inducement (whether it is achieved by intentional concealment or  by intentional affirmative misrepresentations), because a defendant's conduct  in fraudulently inducing someone to enter a contract is separate from the  defendant's later breach of the contract or warranty provisions that were  agreed to.  (Id., at pp. 840-841.) This Court is persuaded  by the reasoning in Dhital and similarly finds the duty exists  independent of the contract. Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim therefore  falls outside the coverage of the economic loss rule.  Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Fifth Cause of Action. Sixth Cause of Action – Negligent Repair To  state a cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff must allege facts  demonstrating the existence of a duty, breach of that duty, causation, and  damages. (Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193,  1202.)  Defendants  demur to the Sixth Cause of Action for negligent repair on the grounds that it  fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action and is barred by  the economic loss rule. Defendants contend the economic loss rule bars this  cause of action because it arises from and is not independent of the warranty  contract. Defendants contend the complaint does not allege intentional conduct  by Ken Grody or any physical damage to property or personal injury, but instead  only seeks damages for the cost of the repair to the subject vehicle.  Defendants also contend the economic loss rule applies to service contracts. Defendants  contend the complaint does not allege facts evidencing damages or that  Plaintiffs paid out-of-pocket for any repairs performed by Defendant Ken Grody.  In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend the complaint alleges sufficient facts to state  a cause of action for negligent repair, such as delivering the subject vehicle  to Defendant Ken Grody for repairs, who breached its duty to use the proper  skills. Plaintiffs contend whether Plaintiffs paid out-of-pocket for the work  is irrelevant and that they do not need to plead facts necessarily in the  control of Ken Grody. Plaintiffs further contend the economic loss rule does  not bar their negligence claim, contending that, based on federal district  court cases in California, the economic loss rule does not apply to negligent  repair claims where subcomponents of a vehicle cause damage to a larger  component or where the component causes damage to the vehicle in which it was  incorporated.  The  Court finds the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of  action for negligent repair. The complaint alleges in a conclusory manner that Ken  Grody owed Plaintiffs a duty of care, that Ken Grody breached that duty, and  that the breach damaged Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶ 87-90.) The complaint does not  allege facts showing that Ken Grody owed Plaintiffs a duty of care independent  of the warranty agreement. (Compl., ¶ 11; see also Seo v. All-Makes Overhead  Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202 [“Any  duty of the repairer arises out of its contract with the owner to repair the  equipment for a specified fee and no justification exists to extend that  contractual duty beyond the intent of the contracting parties. That the  repairer has superior knowledge and may recognize the design defect is not  sufficient in and of itself to create a duty to third parties.”]) The complaint  alleges that Ken Grody did not cause the transmission defect. (Compl., ¶¶  42-48.) The complaint also does not allege facts demonstrating any damages  different than that sought under the lemon law statutory violations. (See  Compl., ¶¶ 87-90.)  The Court also agrees with Defendants that this cause  of action would be barred by the economic loss rule. “Not all tort claims for  monetary losses between contractual parties are barred by the economic loss  rule. But such claims are barred when they arise from — or are not independent  of — the parties’ underlying contracts. [Citation.]” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,  923.) As noted above, the complaint does not allege Ken Grody owed Plaintiffs a  duty independent of the warranty agreement. (Compl., ¶ 11.) In fact, the  complaint expressly alleges that Plaintiffs’ causes of action are predicated  upon those warranty obligations. (Id.) Therefore, the complaint fails to  state a cause of action for negligent repair.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action. The Court will hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel  whether leave to amend should be granted.  CONCLUSION  The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fifth Cause  of Action and SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action. The Court  will hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel whether leave to amend should be granted.              Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.