 Case Number:  23STCV13971    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 29, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jila Babazadeh-Shraga, et al., v.
Ficrest Integration, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV13971            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Jila Babazadeh-Shraga and
Ephraim Shraga
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 4/23/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/15/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/21/23: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
11/06/23: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a contractual fraud and construction defect action. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants promised to install a state-of-the-art smart home system,
but, once installed, the systems were found to be defective and in operative.
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants abandoned the project before
completing the full scope of work. 
 
Plaintiffs, as Cross-Defendants,
move to strike portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to
Strike is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiffs, as Cross-Defendants,
move to strike portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
//
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The declaration of Valerie Horn in
support of the motion states that she met and conferred with
Cross-Complainant’s counsel on December 5, 2023 via telephone and again on
December 12, 2023 via email, but the parties were not able to resolve this
dispute. (Declaration of Valerie F. Horn ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Cross-Defendants have
therefore satisfied their statutory meet and confer obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs, as Cross-Defendants,
move to strike portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint pertaining to
certain prayers for relief on the first eight causes of action. Specifically,
Cross-Defendants seek to strike Prayer No. 5 for imposition of a constructive
trust on the fourth cause of action; Nos. 6 and 7 for disgorgement and money
damages, respectively, under the fifth cause of action, No. 8 and 9 for
disgorgement and money damages under the sixth cause of action, Nos. 10 and 11
for disgorgement and imposition of a constructive trust under the seventh cause
of action, and No. 14 for punitive damages under the eighth cause of action. On
April 11, 2024, Cross-Complainants requested dismissal of the first eight
causes of action without prejudice. (April 11, 2024 Request for Dismissal.)
Thus, these prayers for relief appear to be orphans of the dismissed causes of
action and should be stricken as improper. 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 29, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 