  Case Number:  20STCV42104    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Ozelia Harris v. Pomona Unified School
District, et al., Case No. 20STCV42104
 
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #1:      Withdrawn.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #2:      seeking exclusion of all references to Defendants’ insurance or
lack of insurance or as to how Defendants will pay any compensation to
Plaintiff
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #3:      seeking exclusion of all references to alleged potential effects
of a verdict for Plaintiff.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.  
 
While Plaintiff’s motion is broad, evidence of any potential
effects of a verdict on Defendants would be irrelevant and potentially excluded
under Evidence Code § 352.  
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #4:      Withdrawn.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #5:      seeking exclusion of written warnings given in 2012 and 2015 and
testimony about those warnings and the underlying circumstance.    
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.  
 
Defendants oppose the motion on two grounds.  First, they contend that there is
insufficient information about what evidence is to be excluded, including that
the warnings themselves are not attached. 
The Court agrees that the warnings should have been submitted with the
motion but finds that the motion adequately describes the warnings and the
timing and context in which they were issued. 
Second, Defendants argue that the warnings may be admissible to show
either lack of discriminatory animus or Plaintiff’s incompetent job
performance.  The Court concludes that
the warnings at issue are remote in time and do not deal with the kind of
retaliation or harassment at issue in this case and, thus, have little to no
probative value, unless they are among the “multiple instances of policy
violations and substandard performance” that were referred to in the October 5,
2020 written warning.  If they are not
listed in that warning, the 2012 and 2016 warnings must be excluded as
irrelevant under Evidence Code § 350 and unduly prejudicial under Evidence Code
§ 352.  
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #6:      seeking exclusion of two automobile accidents that occurred more
than five years ago and the actions Plaintiff filed against the at-fault
parties.      
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED.  
 
Defendants oppose the motion arguing that there is
insufficient information about what evidence is to be excluded.  The Court agrees that Platiniff should
provide additional information about the dates of the accidents and the nature
of her injuries, because these facts may be relevant to Plaintiff’s prayer in
this case for emotional distress. 
Accordingly, on this record, the Court cannot grant the motion.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #7: 
    seeking exclusion of evidence
or comments about any attorney’s fees Plaintiff may recover in this action.    
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #8: 
    seeking exclusion of evidence
or comments that counsel for Plaintiff is related to any party or witness.      
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #9: 
    seeking exclusion of evidence
or comments regarding the parties’ financial condition, including Defendant’s
ability to pay any judgment.        
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #10: 
  seeking exclusion of evidence or argument
about certain statements described in the motion.       
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED,
without prejudice to asserting an objection at trial.  
 
The Court lacks sufficient information to determine the
admissibility of the statements.
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #11: 
  seeking exclusion of evidence or argument
about Plaintiff’s decision not to call certain witnesses at trial.      
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  
 
Defendants’ MIL #1: 
            seeking exclusion of
evidence or argument about complaints make by Plaintiff before and after the
January through October 2022 period described in her administrative complaint.       
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part.  
 
The parties agree that pre-2020 complaints should not be
admitted at trial, so the Court adopts that view as well. With respect to
subsequent complaints, the Court agrees with Defendant that, unless the conduct
at issue in the recent complaints is “like or related” to the retaliation and
harassment claims asserted in Plaintiff’s administrative complaint to the
DFEH/DCR, they are not actionable in this lawsuit.  (Brown v. City of Sacramento (2019) 37
Cal. App. 5th 587, 600; Okoli v. Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995)
36 Cal. App. 4th 1607, 1613-1615.) 
Even if the more recent conduct attacked in the complaints is not
actionable, it may be admissible for some other purpose.  Because the Court lacks sufficient
information about those complaints, which have not been submitted to the Court
in support of the motion in limine, it cannot determine whether the recent
conduct is “like or related” to the alleged misconduct in the administrative
charge or whether it is admissible for some other purpose.  As a result, the Court denies the motion in
limine as to those complaints and the underlying conduct they challenge,
without prejudice to objections being raised at trial.   
    