 Case Number:  22STCV17088    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 29, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Liset Perez v. Chik Enterprises
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV17088            
 
MOTION
FOR APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Liset Perez
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 4/24/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a PAGA action that was filed on May 20, 2022. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant has systematically required its employees to perform pre-shift
and post-shift unpaid work and requiring its employees to work through their 30-minute
meal periods. 
 
Plaintiff moves for approval of a
proposed settlement agreement. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s motion for approval
of settlement of her claims for civil penalties under PAGA is CONTINUED to
Wednesday, May 29, 2024 at 9:00 AM. Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file a
revised settlement agreement on or before Wednesday, May 22, 2024 pursuant to
the Court’s ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for approval of a
proposed settlement agreement in which Defendant will pay $191,750 to settle
all claims. 
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
An application to approve a settlement under PAGA must include a copy
of the proposed settlement agreement, a copy of the predicate letter to the
LWDA seeking an investigation of the claims prior to filing the lawsuit, and a
declaration from counsel explaining the reasonable range of recovery in the
case and the reasons why the settlement is fair and reasonable.  Further, “the proposed settlement” must be
given to the LWDA at the same time as the Court receives the request for
approval of the settlement.  (Labor Code section 2699(l)(2).)  
 
The motion submitted to the Court meets some of the procedural
requirements for this motion.  A copy of
the proposed settlement agreement is included. 
(Declaration of James A. De Sario ISO Mot Exh. A.)  Further, the declaration of counsel in
support of the motion reveals that the settlement agreement was simultaneously
submitted to the LWDA as is required under the statute, with confirmation of
service via online upload.  (Id. ¶
20, Exh. D.) However, Plaintiff has not provided the Court with a
copy of the predicate letter sent to the LWDA before filing suit.
Plaintiff has therefore failed to satisfy the procedural requirements of the
motion.
 
Reasonableness
of Settlement
 
PAGA was enacted to aid public agencies, which lack adequate funding,
in enforcement of California’s labor laws. Private persons suing under the PAGA
do so as a proxy of the state. (ZB, N.A. v. Superior Court (2019) 8
Cal.5th 175, 185 (Lawson).) Aggrieved employees suing under the PAGA are
authorized to recover civil penalties, which advances a law enforcement
function, designed to protect the public. (Ibid., citing Arias v.
Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 986 (Arias) and Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348 (Iskanian)).)
Labor Code §2699(l)(2) requires courts to “review and approve any settlement of
any civil action filed pursuant to this part.” The California Supreme Court
explains that a PAGA claim is a form of a qui tam action. (Iskanian, supra,
59 Cal.4th 348, 382.) 
 
As such, the Court looks to the standards for evaluating a qui tam
settlement in assessing this settlement, that is, whether the settlement is
“fair, adequate, and reasonable.” (Cf. Cal. Govt. Code § 12652 [In a qui
tam action a state or political subdivision may settle the action with the
defendant notwithstanding the objections of the qui tam plaintiff if the court
determines, after a hearing providing the qui tam plaintiff an opportunity to
present evidence, that the proposed settlement is fair, adequate, and
reasonable under all the circumstances].)
 
An application for approval of such a settlement must demonstrate that
the proposed settlement is adequate, reasonable, and fair to all those affected
by it.  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
549.)  Those affected by a PAGA settlement include: (1) the LWDA, who
receives 75% of settlement funds (Lab. Code § 2699(i)) and is “bound by the
outcome of the proceeding to adjudicate the employee’s PAGA claim” (Mejia v.
Merchants Building Maintenance, LLC, supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at p. 732); (2)
the aggrieved employees, both party and non-party, who receive 25% percent of
settlement funds and are, like the LWDA, bound by a PAGA action judgment (Lab.
Code § 2699(i); Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 985);
(3) plaintiffs’ counsel, who may be awarded “reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs” (Lab. Code § 2699(g)(1); and (4) the defendant who pays the settlement.
 
Assessing the fairness and adequacy of any settlement necessitates
decision-making based on unknowns. In determining whether a settlement falls
within the parameters of what may be considered reasonable, courts regularly
rely on estimates of potential maximum values weighed against weaknesses of the
claims. Other important indicia of fairness include arms’-length negotiations,
experienced counsel, and an adequate investigation of the claims. But the
potential value of the claims being settled is primary to any evaluation. (Dunk
v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802; Kullar v.
Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 129-130.)
 
            Plaintiff has shown the parties
engaged in an arms’-length negotiation by independently meeting and conferring
and participating in mediation with the Hon. Steven R. Denton (Ret.) on May 18,
2023 and September 6, 2023, resulting in this settlement. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff’s counsel has also provided evidence of their substantial experience
in wage and hour litigation and in PAGA actions. (Id. ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Further, Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence regarding the
nature of the PAGA investigation to determine its adequacy. Plaintiff states
that Defendant produced a random sampling of time and payroll records, as well
as wage and hour policies and relevant policy documents in place during the
relevant time period. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff states that there were
approximately 323 aggrieved employees, including Plaintiff, during the relevant
time period, for which there were 4,608 pay periods between May 20, 2021
through September 15, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) The Court finds that, based on
this evidence, the investigation of the PAGA claims was adequate to justify a
settlement. 
 
Plaintiff calculates, based on the number of workweeks and aggrieved
parties, their hourly rates, and the theories of how the Labor Code was
violated, that the maximum value of the claims would be $808,900. (De Sario
Decl. ¶ 8.) Applying the same fee structure as in the proposed settlement, this
would result in a total net settlement amount to the aggrieved parties of $202,225
amounting to an average recovery of $626.08 to each the 323 aggrieved parties,
not accounting for attorney’s fees or enhancements. Here, the settlement
proposes to distribute $25,543.13 (representing 25% of the net Settlement Fund
after enhancements, administration costs, and attorney’s fees) among the 323
aggrieved parties for an average recovery of approximately $79.08 each. (De
Sario Decl. Exh. A § 4.6.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has offered
sufficient evidence to determine the relative strength of the claims and the
range of possible settlement values.
 
The proposed enhancement payment to be paid to Plaintiff out of the
settlement funds appears reasonable. Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, Plaintiff is to receive $2,000 from the settlement funds, amounting
to 1.04% of the total settlement funds, contrasting with the 53% allotted to
the net settlement amount and 13% allotted to the funds to be distributed to
aggrieved employees.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel request that $9,652.75 in costs and $67,112.50 in
attorneys’ fees be paid out of the settlement funds. Plaintiff justifies this
amount as appropriate on the basis that Plaintiff’s counsel achieved a
favorable result in a case that required thorough investigation and intensive
negotiations, and for which there were several potentially meritorious
defenses. This recovery matches other awards approved by courts in California
for wage and hour claims. (See, e.g., Martin v. Ameripride Servs. (S.D.
Cal. June 9, 2011) 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 61796, 23 [“courts may award
attorney’s fees in the 30-40% range in wage and hour class actions that result
in recovery of a common fund under $10 million.) Plaintiff’s counsel does not
provide itemized billing records, but lists the total costs incurred in a
declaration under penalty of perjury. (De Sario Decl.¶ 19.) Plaintiff’s counsel
also states under penalty of perjury that Attorney Michael Nourmand billed
$40,672.50 in attorney’s fees, accounting for 54.23 hours at $750 per hour, and
Attorney De Sario billed $40,000 in fees, accounting for 80 hours at $500 per
hour. (Id. ¶ 14.) Thus, Plaintiff’s counsel are requesting reduced fees
compared to the fees actually billed. Given this showing, the Court finds that
the requested fees are reasonable based on the evidence provided.
 
Plaintiff justifies the requested $9652.75 in costs on the basis of
the actual litigation costs incurred in this amount. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 19.) The
itemized list of costs accounts for the costs actually incurred. However, the
Court observes that the proposed settlement allocates considerably more costs
to Plaintiff’s counsel than what is requested on this motion. The cost
allocations in the settlement should be adjusted to account for the reduction
in claimed costs, with the remainder to be returned to the net settlement
amount pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement.
 
Plaintiff does not state why CPT Group was selected as the
administrator but states that CPT Group “indicated” that the costs to
administer the settlement would be $10,804.21, the amount sought in allotment
for the settlement administrator. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 19.) The Court therefore
finds that Plaintiff has justified the allotment.
 
The release to be imposed on aggrieved parties states that all
aggrieved parties shall be deemed to have released Defendants or any related
entity from:
 
[A]ny and all claims, rights, demands,
liabilities and causes of action that arose during the PAGA Period for civil
penalties under the PAGA that were pled or which reasonably could have been
pleaded based on the factual allegations pled in Plaintiffs notice to the LWDA,
dated May 20, 2022, and the operative Complaint (i.e., the "First Amended
Complaint filed on November 1, 2022") alleging claims for PAGA civil
penalties, and the theories on which the PAGA claims are premised including:
(1) failure to pay overtime wages; (2) failure to pay minimum wages; (3)
failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to provide erst periods; (5)
failure to pay all wages upon termination; (6) failure to provide accurate wage
statements; and (7) failure to reimburse business related expenses. Aggrieved
Employees cannot opt-out of the Release PAGA Claims. The Released PAGA Claims
exclude claims for workers' compensation or unemployment insurance benefits and
Plaintiffs individual wage and hour claims for unpaid wages, interest,
liquidated damages, statutory penalties, etc.
 
(De Sario
Decl. Exh. A. § 1.23.) 
 
In the Court’s view, a release must focus solely on the extinguishment
of claims for PAGA penalties for the Labor Code violations alleged in
Plaintiff’s LWDA letter against Defendant alone to be reasonable. Without a
copy of the LWDA letter to assess whether the claims and facts identified here
mirror those in the predicate letter, the Court cannot adequately assess the
reasonableness of the release. Plaintiff must provide a copy of the LWDA
predicate letter so the Court may properly evaluate the release of
claims. 
 
            Had
Plaintiff presented the missing materials identified herein, the Court might be
inclined to find the proposed settlement to be fair and reasonable. However,
without such evidence, there is not a sufficient basis to make this
determination. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to order a
continuance of this matter to permit Plaintiff to serve and file the requisite
materials. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for approval of settlement of her claims for civil penalties
under PAGA is CONTINUED to Wednesday, May 29, 2024 at 9:00 AM. Plaintiff is
ordered to serve and file a revised settlement agreement on or before
Wednesday, May 22, 2024 pursuant to the Court’s ruling herein. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 29, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 