 Case Number:  23STCV11727    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 26, 2024 & April 29, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arturo Montoya-Bautista et al. v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11727            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Dal-Tile Distribution, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Arturo
Montoya-Bautista and Magdalena Balderas-Molina
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home Centers,
LLC
·        
12/29/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Jacobe
Enterprises, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Montoya-Bautista
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Defendant Dal-Tile Distribution,
Inc. moves to strike portions of the Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Dal-Tile Distribution, Inc. moves to strike select portions
of the Complaint pertaining to “[o]ther products to be identified during
discovery (Complaint p.11:27) and pertaining to fines imposed on Defendant and
convictions of its officers for hazardous waste dumping. (Complaint ¶¶
274-275.) 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Na Hyun Seo states
that Defendant sent a meet-and-confer letter to Plaintiffs on November 21,
2023, but Plaintiffs never responded to efforts to contact them by phone or
email. (Declaration of Na Hyun Seo ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-3; Exh. A.) Defendant has thus
satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Plaintiffs’ Filings
 
            On April 8,
2024, the Court admonished Plaintiffs’ counsel for their failure to properly
label their motions and papers properly in this case:
 
As a preliminary
matter, each of Plaintiffs’ filings in this matter is identified as Memorandum
of Points and Authorities without reference to the specific motion or the
Defendant to which the motion is directed. Plaintiffs’ repeated failure
to label their motions correctly has wasted extensive judicial resources
because of the sheer volume of filings in the instant docket. Counsel for the
various Defendants in this action have had no difficulty in properly labeling
their filings in this case, and most parties in other proceedings before this
Court are similarly untroubled by this requirement. Plaintiffs’ counsel is
admonished for this failure and is expressly ordered to properly
label each filing going forward, so the Court can identify the opposition
that responds to each motion filed by one of the many defendants in
this action.
 
(April 8, 2024 Minute Order [emphasis added].) Despite the
Court’s explicit instruction, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed its response to this
motion on April 15, 2024 which is labeled in the Court’s records only as
“Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Opposition.” The Court ordered
Plaintiffs’ counsel to label the filing in such a manner to permit the Court to
match opposition and motion. Simply labeling the filing as “Memorandum of
Points and Authorities in Opposition” does not serve that purpose and does not
comply with the Court’s order. A compliant designation would be, as an example,
“Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Opposition to Dal-Tile
Distribution’s Motion to Strike.” Plaintiffs’ counsel is again ordered
to properly label each filing going forward, and, to eliminate any possibility
of confusion, is expressly instructed follow the above format for each of its
filings in the instant matter from now on. Further failure to comply with this
instruction will not be tolerated. 
 
“Other Stone Products”
 
Defendant moves to strike an allegation relating to “[o]ther stone products to be
identified during the course of discovery.” (Complaint p.11:27.) 
 
Defendant is correct that this allegation is inconsistent
with the requirements of Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 71, the leading case on pleading requirements in toxic tort cases.
That case requires Plaintiffs to “identify each product that allegedly caused
the injury.” (Id. at 80.) If Plaintiffs had alleged only that Defendant
had manufactured something that caused the injury and that they would identify
that “something” during discovery, that would be inadequate. It is only the
naming of a specific product that saves Plaintiff’s allegations against this
Defendant.  The further reference to other
products “to be identified during discovery” is improper. 
 
By analogy, when seeking to amend
a complaint, “a vague suggestion that additional facts might be uncovered
through discovery is insufficient to justify allowing plaintiffs further leave
to amend their complaint.” (AREI II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1020.) If that type of suggestion is inadequate to justify leave to amend, it
must be inadequate at the outset.  
 
In so ruling, the Court
emphasizes this does not mean that Plaintiffs shall be forever barred from
identifying additional injury-causing products during the course of further
discovery which were not listed in his Complaint. “If discovery and
investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely amendment to a
pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.” (Mabie v. Hyatt
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596.) Plaintiffs are also not categorically
precluded from pursuing evidence of other injury-causing products. The
Discovery Act specifically permits discovery “reasonably calculated to lead to
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
Moreover, any “doubts as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of
permitting discovery.” (Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790.) 
 
//
Hazardous Waste Dumping
 
            Defendant
also moves to strike paragraphs 274 and 275 of the Complaint as irrelevant.
These paragraphs allege:
 
274. In 1991 the
Texas Water Commission imposed a record $1 million fine against Dal-Tile for 12
years of illegally dumping hazardous waste into two gravel pits in southeastern
Dallas County. It was the largest fine ever levied by a state agency for environmental
violations. The company was required by law to send contaminated wastes from
the manufacturing process to special landfills but, according to state
investigators, dumped the material from 1975 to 1987 in pits that were not
specially licensed. The commission also found that Dal-Tile used waste oils on
farmland for dust control, failed to notify the state it had discharged
industrial solid wastes into water, and failed to keep records of the waste and
file annual reports.
 
275. In 1993, a
federal grand jury indicted Robert Brittingham, Jr., and company president John
Lomonaco on 17 criminal counts, including conspiracy to dump hazardous waste.
Brittingham was found guilty in 1993, fined $4 million, and sentenced to five
years' probation, which he began fulfilling with 15 hours a week in community
service by financing and operating a $6 million lead-abatement program for
Dallas. The total cost of the fines and dumpsite cleanup came to $16.5 million.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 274-75.) Defendant argues with considerable
force that these allegations have no bearing on the instant case because
hazardous waste dumping between 1975 and 1987 is totally irrelevant to the
subject of this action. Plaintiffs, in opposition, argue that these allegations
are proper to show conscious disregard of health and safety to support the
prayer for punitive damages against Defendant. The Court is not persuaded.
Hazardous waste dumping in the 1970s and 1980s is not relevant to whether
Defendant consciously disregarded the risk to health and safety created by dust
from stone countertops. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike
is GRANTED without leave to amend. Leave to amend to identify new
products may be granted in the future if discovery reveals that an amendment to
list another product or products is justified. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 26, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 