  Case Number:  23STCV05645    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DAVID GASTELO, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
AUTOMOBILE CLUB OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA; INTERINSURANCE EXCHANGE
  OF THE AUTOMOBILE CLUB; ACSC MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC.; HVAC, a business
  entity form unknown; HVAC INVESTIGATORS, a business entity form unknown;
  GARRET ELECTRIC, a business entity form unknown; P.W. STEPHENS, ENVIRONMENTAL,
  INC., a corporation; EXCEL RESTORATION, INC., a corporation; SYDNEY
  KLITTIVIT; and DOES 1-200, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV05645
 Hearing Date:   2/8/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Excel
  Restoration, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint; and
Defendant Excel Restoration,
  Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff David Gastello sues Defendants Automobile Club of Southern
California, Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club (Auto Club), ACSC
Management Services, Inc. (ACSC), HVACi (business entity unknown), HVAC
Investigators, Garret Electric, P.W. Stephens, Environmental, Inc. (Stephens
Environmental), Excel Restoration, Inc. (Excel Restoration), Sydney Klittivit,
and Does 1-200 pursuant to a March 14, 2023 Complaint.
The Complaint alleges claims of: (1) Bad Faith/Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing and (2) Breach of Contract against AAA
and Does 1-25; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty against ACSC and Does 1 through
125; (4) Intentional and (5) Negligent Interference with Contract against ACSC,
HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens, Environmental, Excel
Restoration and Does 1 through 125; (6) Negligence against Stephens
Environmental and Does 66 through 85; and (7) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED) against all Defendants.
The claims arise from the following allegations. The Auto Club, acting
through Defendants ACSC (as “attorney-in-fact”) and/or Sydney Klittivit, acted
in bad faith to deny Plaintiff Gastello of the benefits of his insurance policy
for real and personal property owned by Plaintiff and located at 15260 Binney
Street, Hacienda Heights, California 91745 (the Subject Property). These
actions were knowingly ratified by the Auto Club’s management. The real and
personal property were severely damaged by a fire that occurred on March 18,
2021, causing clear and obvious physical damage, and creating significant
environmental issues, including exposure to asbestos.
Defendants HVACi, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel
Restoration—specifically not agents of the Auto Club—were engaged by Auto Club
to assist it in wrongfully denying and/or lowballing Plaintiff’s insurance
claim. Specifically: the Auto Club, acting through ACSC, dispatched HVACi, HVAC
Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration to
generate false structure, environmental, and content reports to assist Auto
Club in lowballing Plaintiff’s insurance claim for damage on the Property; HVACi,
HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel
Restoration acted in concert with the Auto Club; and ACSC, HVACi, HVAC
Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration aided
and abetted Auto Club in severely delaying proper payment. In doing so, Auto
Club acting through ACSC, HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens
Environmental, and Excel Restoration violated the Insurance Code, the Claim
regulations and Penal Code Section 550, which makes it a crime to submit false
data in response to an insurance claim.
Defendants HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens
Environmental, and Excel Restoration interfered with the insurance contract or
disrupted the relationship in various ways, including but not limited to: (a)
by dramatically lowballing relative to content and related issues; (b) by
violating PC section 550 by submitting false data in response to a valid
insurance claim; (c) assisting, aiding and abetting Auto Club in lowballing;
and, (d) in various other ways, according to proof.
The acts and omissions of the Auto Club (through its claims manager, Cara
Calhoon, and Chief Operating Officer, John Boyle), HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett
Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration (a) were done with a
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and with an intent to vex, injure,
annoy Plaintiff, such as to constitute oppression, fraud or malice pursuant to
the Civil Code section 3294, and (b) were either committed by or authorized,
ratified or otherwise approved by officers, directors or managing agents of Defendants,
entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish,
deter, or set an example of Defendants.
Motions Before the Court
On October 20, 2023, Defendant Excel Restoration filed a demurrer to the
Complaint’s fourth to fifth and seventh causes of action, i.e., the only three
causes of action alleged against this Defendant.
That same day, Defendant Excel Restoration filed a motion to strike
punitive damages allegations and prayers from the Complaint.
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff Gastello opposed the demurrer and the
motion to strike in a combined opposition.
On January 30, 2024, Defendant Excel Restoration replied to the combined
opposition with a combined reply.
The demurrer and motion to strike are now before the Court.
 
Demurrer
Demurrer Sufficiency Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts needed to establish
each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212,
superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a [general]
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s
proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the cause of action,
the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) A demurrer,
however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face of the complaint
includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987)
189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
Uncertainty Legal Standard 
A demurrer to a pleading lies where
the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10, subd. (f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved on other
grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations question].)
Where complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise
defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a special
demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see also Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special demurrer [for uncertainty] should be
overruled where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to
apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet”].)
I.
Complaint, Fourth and Seventh
Causes of Action, Intentional Interference with Contract and Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress: OVERRULED.
“The elements which a plaintiff
must plead to state the cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third
party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant’s intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050-1051.)
In its demurrer, Excel Restoration
argues that “Gastelo’s Complaint consists of nothing more than conclusory
statements that Excel conspired with AAA to underbid their work, but there are
no specific facts showing that Excel even provided a bid, what the bid was for,
or how or why Gastelo believes it was under market value (let alone who
prepared the bid for Excel, when they did so, whether management knew
of/ratified the bid, how the bid was communicated, etc.) [or false]. It is
likewise wholly unclear why or how Excel would intentionally underbid for work
it performed, which, again, as explained above, would only harm Excel.”
(Demurrer, p. 9.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Gastello argues that the Complaint’s allegations are not
subject to a heightened pleading standard and sufficiently allege claims
against Excel Restoration by apprising Excel Restoration of the bases for
relief against it. Plaintiff also argues that Excel Restoration would lowball
reports and falsify data to curry favor in securing the Auto Club’s substantial
business. Plaintiff requests leave to amend if the demurrer is sustained. (Opp’n,
pp. 2-7.)
In
reply, the Auto Club argues that Plaintiff’s opposition does not cite the
paragraphs in the Complaint sufficiently alleging the claims at issue here. The
Auto Club also argues that the opposition does not sufficiently state the facts
upon which leave to amend can be granted. The Auto Club adds that punitive
damages are deficiently alleged because the Complaint insufficiently alleges a
conspiracy between all Defendants that has not been sufficiently elaborated. Last,
the Auto Club argues that the motion to strike was not addressed by the
opposition and that the Complaint’s allegations supporting the claims at issue
here are conclusory because they do not provide more information as to what
data was falsified, how such documents or data were false, who performed these
actions, and who ratified these actions in management. (Reply, pp. 2-8.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff.
The
general rule is that a complaint must contain allegations of ultimate facts as
opposed to allegations of legal conclusions. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 551, fn. 5, citation omitted.) The complaint ordinarily
is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts. (Id.
at p. 550; see, e.g., Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1391 [within context of breach of contract claim,
pleadings did not sufficiently allege ultimate facts for the position that “conditions
in the [the parties’ agreement] had been satisfied, excused or waived,” instead
limiting itself to evidentiary facts that did not sufficiently plead this
element of breach of contract].)
Here,
the Complaint alleges sufficient ultimate facts to support intentional
interference with contractual relations and IIED against Excel Restoration: at
the behest of the Auto Club, Excel Restoration intentionally and knowingly submitted
false documents and data in response to Plaintiffs’ valid insurance claim for
the fire that damaged the Subject Property and chattel within (“lowballing” as
to “content and related issues”), which Excel Restoration did in violation of
Section 550 of the California Penal Code, or aided and abetted the “lowballing”
(Complaint, ¶¶ 23-24, 31(s), 44, 46(d), 47(a), 52, 62); Excel Restoration
performed these actions in concert with the Auto Club and other Defendants as
to deny Plaintiff his rights under the insurance policy with the Auto Club (Complaint,
¶ 54); the Auto Club relied on those reports to lowball the insurance coverage
due to Plaintiff (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 31); management at Excel Restoration ratified
this conduct (Complaint, ¶ 54); and damages of $3 million to Plaintiff through
general damages, loss of use of funds and the Subject Property, and cost of
consultants, public adjuster, and attorney’s fees, among other things (Complaint
¶¶ 53-54). (See also, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 52 [specific ultimate facts of
interference with Auto Club insurance policy’s intended benefits], 62 [specific
ultimate facts for IIED].)
Such
allegations state the existence of an insurance policy in favor of Plaintiff as
issued by the Auto Club, of which Excel Restoration was aware, with Excel’s
conduct disrupting the contractual relationship by denying Plaintiff the
benefit of the contract, thus damaging Plaintiff. (See Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co., supra, 50 Cal.3d at p. 1126.)
Moreover,
the Court determines that a scheme designed to deny a homeowner their rights
under an insurance contract, the purpose of which is to make the homeowner
whole in case of a loss, such as alleged here with the fire damaging the
Subject Property and chattel within, constitutes extreme and outrageous conduct
by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress, which did cause Plaintiff severe or
extreme emotional distress, as well as damages. (Hughes v. Pair, supra,
46 Cal.4th at pp. 1050-1051; see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 23-24, 31, 31(s), 44,
46(d), 47(a), 52-54, 61-63, 61-63 [appearing twice in pleading], 65.)
The
Court finds no merit to the demurrer argument that the Complaint, in effect,
lacks sufficient evidentiary facts to apprise Excel Restoration of the bases
for liability against it. The Complaint need only plead ultimate facts (Doe
v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 551, fn. 5) and is
clear. As cited above, Excel Restoration was hired to draft certain “content
issue” reports that knowingly contained falsified data, so drafted for the
purpose of giving the Auto Club a basis to lowball Plaintiff’s insurance
coverage for the Subject Property following the fire that damaged that Property
and the chattel within. Those ultimate facts sufficiently support the two above
claims, as discussed in the preceding three paragraphs. Evidentiary facts need
not be alleged and can be ascertained during discovery. (See Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 616 [“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures”]; see also Dahlquist v. State (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 208,
212-213 [Because discovery through “depositions, interrogatories, requests for
admission, etc.” is the “modern method of” “ascertain[ing] every fact known to
plaintiffs and their witnesses,” “reason [exists] for some relaxation of
rigidity in application of the rules relating to the sufficiency of
complaints,” citations omitted].)
Moreover,
the “conspiracy” argument falls flat where the Complaint mostly relies on
“aiding and abetting,” which only requires, for example, that the aiding and
abettor “know[] the [principal]’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and
gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act.” (IIG
Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 653-654.) The Complaint
pleads such aiding and abetting, as described above, i.e., false reports by
Excel Restoration used by the Auto Club to lowball Plaintiff’s insurance
coverage or assistance with false reports.
Accordingly,
Excel Restoration’s demurrer is OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s fourth and
seventh causes of action.
II.
Complaint,
Fifth Cause of Action, Negligent Interference with Contract: SUSTAINED,
without leave to amend.
There
is no cause of action for negligent interference with a contract in California.
(Davis v. Nadrich (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1, 9; see Demurrer, p. 9
[making this argument]; Opp’n, p. 3 [agreeing to dismiss this claim].) It therefore
follows that the seventh fifth cause of action is fatally defective as framed.
The
Court accordingly SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the Complaint’s fifth cause of
action. As Plaintiff does not request leave to amend as to that claim, and the
Court does not see any basis for so doing, the demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend as to that claim. 

 
Motion to Strike
Legal
Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
I.
Order
Striking Punitive Damages from Complaint: GRANTED, in part, with leave to
amend.
“In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
Here,
the Court adopts Section I of the demurrer discussion to determine that because
the intentional interference and IIED claims survived demurrer, the Complaint
alleges torts that may support punitive damages. (See, e.g., Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210
[“Punitive damages are proper … when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate”].)
Moreover,
the Complaint alleges sufficient ultimate facts for ratification. (Complaint, ¶
65.) Though the Complaint could be clearer as to the financial motive behind Excel
Restoration’s alleged conduct—framed in the opposition as currying favor with
the Auto Club for more business (Opp’n, p. 2)— motive and intent are
sufficiently pleaded in the Complaint to furnish a reason for the ratification
and Excel’s conduct. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 46-46(g); see also G.D. Searle
& Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [“When the
plaintiff alleges an intentional wrong, a prayer for exemplary damage may be
supported by pleading that the wrong was committed willfully or with a design to
injure”].)
However,
the Court agrees that the prayer allegations incorrectly refer to the third and
seventh causes of action for punitive damages as to Excel Restoration, whereas
the third cause of action is a breach of fiduciary duty claim which is pleaded
only against ACSC Management Services and Does through 125. The Court assumes
that Plaintiff meant to refer to the fourth cause of action, which is stated
against Excel Restoration, among others. The Court will thus grant the request
to strike the portion of the prayer on page 40 that states, “[As to the Excel
Defendants] as to the third and seventh causes of action, for punitive and
exemplary damages according to proof.” The motion is otherwise denied.
The
motion to strike is thus GRANTED in part and DENIED in part, with leave to
amend. 

Conclusion
Defendant Excel Restoration, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part as follows:
(1) OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s
fourth and seventh causes of action; and
(2) SUSTAINED, without leave to
amend, as to the Complaint’s fifth cause of action.
Defendant Excel Restoration, Inc.’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part, with
leave to amend.