  Case Number:  21CHCV00576    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 9/21/23
Case #21CHCV00576
 
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Motion filed on 5/18/23.
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Anne L. Holland
CLIENTS: Defendants Fresh Start
Healthy School Meals, Inc.; K12 Schools Services and Juan Carlos Saucedo

 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
relieving attorney Anne L. Holland as counsel for Defendants Fresh Start
Healthy School Meals, Inc.; K12 Schools Services and Juan Carlos Saucedo in
this action.

 
RULING: The motion is denied without
prejudice.  
 
On 5/18/23, attorney Anne L. Holland filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order relieving her as counsel for Defendants Fresh
Start Healthy School Meals, Inc.; K12 Schools Services and Juan Carlos Saucedo
in this action.
 
The proof of service for the motion indicates that it was
electronically served on the clients.  (See
Proof of Service filed 5/18/23). 
However, there is no evidence that the clients have consented to
electronic service.  See CCP
1010.6(c).  Similarly, Judicial Council
Form MC-052 which must be used for such a motion does not provide for service
on the client by email.  Here, the
attorney impermissibly inserted an “E” before the word “mail” in number 3.a.(2)
of the supporting declaration.  Even if
service by email was permissible, the attorney has failed to adequately
establish the confirmation of the email addresses for the client.  The declaration merely states that the email
addresses were confirmed “By email and email reply” without providing copies of
such emails or the content of same.  
 
No response to the motion has been filed to cure the
defects in notice.
 
Additionally, the Court finds the reasons for the
withdrawal, “failure of cooperation” and “withdrawal is mandatory under the
Rules,” to be too vague.  No information
as to how Defendants have failed to cooperate is provided (i.e., failure to
communicate, failure to pay for services rendered, etc.).  Additionally, it is not clear which rules the
attorney claims mandate withdrawal and/or why they mandate withdrawal (i.e., California
Rules of Professional Conduct; California Rules of Court, or some other rules).   
 