  Case Number:  22TRCV01191    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JOHN DOE T.A., et
  al.,
 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01191




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
DOE 1, A PUBLIC
  ENTITY, et al.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 




Hearing
Date:             September
10, 2024

 

Moving
Parties:          Plaintiff,
John Doe T.A. District

Responding
Party:      Defendant, Redondo Beach Unified
School

HEARING:
MOTION TO QUASH OR MODIFY SUBPOENAS ISSUED BY DEFENDANT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE
FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER

            The
Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 

 

RULING

            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoenas is DENIED.

 

BACKGROUND

            On
November 9, 2022, Plaintiff John Doe T.A. filed a complaint for personal
injuries and damages from childhood sexual abuse against Defendants Doe 1, a
public entity, Doe 2, an individual, and Does 3 through 6, inclusive. Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: (1) childhood sexual abuse; (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3) negligent hiring, supervision
and retention of unfit employee based on government code sections 815.2 and
820; (4) failure to report suspected child abuse; (5) negligent supervision of
a minor government code sections 815.2 and 820; and (6) negligence.

 

            On
September 6, 2023, Doe 1 was amended to Redondo Beach Unified School District
and Doe 2 was amended to Al Brown.

On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Doe 2 from the
case.

            On
November 15, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer which was overruled on June 25,
2024.

            On
March 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash or modify subpoenas issued by
Defendant (Res. ID 2504). On April 30, 2023, Defendant Redondo Beach Unified
School District filed an opposition. On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.

            On
May 17, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories (Res. ID 8131). On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On September 3, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.

            On
May 17, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to further respond
to and comply with Defendant’s Requests for Production of Documents (Res. ID
7594). On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On September 3, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.

            On
July 3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint.

            On
July 18, 2024, an IDC was held. On the same date, the case was reassigned to
Judge Alan B. Honeycutt.

 

            On
August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash or modify subpoena (Res. ID
4322). On August 28, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On September 4, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.

            Trial
is set for October 21, 2025.

            The
Court will consider the motion to quash filed on March 6, 2024 (Res. ID 2504).
The other motion to quash (Res. ID 4322) is set for hearing on September 11,
2024.

LEGAL
STANDARD

Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 authorizes courts to
quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the
court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the
court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) Discovery devices
are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it. (Calcor Space Facility,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)

Where privacy rights are at stake, “[t]he party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking information may raise
in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests
disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible
alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish
the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.
. . . Courts must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies. . . . What suffices to justify an invasion will . .
. vary according to the context. Only obvious invasions of interests
fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531, 552-557 (internal citations
omitted).) In instances in which the interests at stake are fundamental to
personal autonomy, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate that the
information is directly relevant to the issues in the action, and that there is
a compelling public interest in the disclosure of the information that
outweighs the right to privacy. (Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981)
119 Cal.App.3d 516, 525.)

DISCUSSION

Plaintiff moves to quash or modify subpoenas issued by
Defendant on February 9, 2024, seeking the production of medical records from
several healthcare providers. Defendant issued subpoenas to the following
medical facilities, as identified in Plaintiff’s discovery responses: 

1.     Petaluma
Valley Hospital – Medical Records, 400 N. McDowell Blvd., Petaluma, CA 94954

2.     Azure
Acres Recovery Center – 2264 Green Hill Rd., Sebastopol, CA 95472

3.     Kaiser
Permanente (Attn: Medical & Radiology Records), 6600 Bruceville Rd.,
Sacramento, CA 95823

4.     Sutter
Center For Psychiatry, 7700 Folsom Blvd., Sacramento, CA 95826

The subpoenas at issue are as follows:

1.     Kaiser
Permanente – Medical and Radiology Records: All writings from the first day of
treatment to the present, including medical and office records, doctors’ and
nurses’ notes, medical histories, physical examination files, consultation
reports, trauma treatment, emergency room records, and a complete inventory of
radiological films and images, such as X-Rays, CT scans, and MRIs.

2.     Petaluma
Valley Hospital – Medical Records: All writings from the first day of treatment
to the present, similar in scope to those requested from Kaiser Permanente,
including all medical records, consultation reports, and records related to
treatment and emergency room care.

3.     Azure
Acres Recovery Center: All writings from the first day of treatment to the
present, encompassing a broad range of medical and office records, physical
examinations, consultation reports, as well as detailed billing records and
documents regarding payments, credits, and insurance adjustments, including
those related to Medicare and Medicaid. It also includes a request for all
radiological films, images, and related documents.

4.     Sutter
Center for Psychiatry: All writings from the first day of treatment to the
present, including extensive medical records, billing documents, and records of
payments, as well as any radiological films, images, and documents, similar to
the request made to Azure Acres Recovery Center.

Plaintiff argues that these subpoenas are overly broad,
invasive, and violate his constitutional right to privacy. He contends that the
subpoenas demand privileged information, including potentially irrelevant
medical details and information concerning his sexual history with third
parties. Plaintiff further asserts that the information requested is not
relevant to the subject matter of the action and is not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The subpoenas, he argues, are
excessively broad as they request all records from the healthcare providers
without limitation, including types of treatment that have no bearing on the
case. This broad scope, he claims, violates California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2017.220, which restricts the discovery of a plaintiff’s sexual
history. 

Plaintiff requests that the Court issue a protective order
to prevent or limit the subpoenas. Plaintiff also requests that the Court
conduct an in camera review before producing his records to
Defendant. 

In opposition, Defendant argues that it is only seeking
information directly related to the claims Plaintiff has put at issue and is
not requesting discovery concerning Plaintiff’s sexual conduct with individuals
other than the alleged perpetrator. Defendant contends that section 2017.220
only applies when there are “specific facts” supporting a particular request
for such discovery, and Plaintiff has not shown that any portion of the
subpoenas seeks information about his sexual history. Defendant emphasizes that
Plaintiff has not provided any declaration indicating that he received
treatment at the facilities in question related to sexual issues with anyone
other than the perpetrator, nor has Plaintiff demonstrated that the subpoenas
violate section 2017.220, which applies only to specific, targeted discovery
requests. Defendant further argues that Plaintiff’s objection based on section
2017.220 is misguided, as none of the cases Plaintiff cites involve subpoenas
for relevant medical records; instead, they address specific discovery requests
for sexual history information. Defendant asserts that because Plaintiff has
put his sexuality at issue, alleging damages such as hypersexuality,
difficulties in forming and maintaining relationships, social withdrawal, and
confusion over sexual orientation, Plaintiff has made his relationships with
others relevant to the case. According to Defendant, when a plaintiff’s
sexuality and ability to maintain relationships are at issue, defendants must
be allowed to test the truth of such allegations, referencing legal precedents
such as *Barrenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 794,
798, and Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842. 

Defendant also contends that Plaintiff’s citation of
Evidence Code section 1106 does not justify quashing the subpoenas. Rather,
Defendant states that section 1106(a) permits evidence of specific instances of
Plaintiff’s sexual conduct to prove “the absence of injury to the plaintiff” if
the injury alleged is related to loss of consortium, which Plaintiff has
claimed here. Defendant states that Plaintiff has alleged “hypersexuality,”
defined as excessive concern with or indulgence in sexual activity, as a result
of the abuse, making discovery into this area relevant. Defendant clarifies
that the subpoenas do not seek the specific matters potentially prohibited by
Evidence Code section 1106 but merely seek Plaintiff’s treatment records from
providers for injuries attributed to the abuse. 

Finally, Defendant states that Plaintiff has not provided
any specific terms for a protective order and has not justified the need for
one. Defendant notes that it has already offered to limit the subpoenas by
withdrawing requests for billing records and radiology scans, and has also
proposed agreeing to a protective order that would mark all subpoenaed records
as confidential. Despite these offers, Plaintiff has refused without explaining
why these concessions are insufficient or specifying how he wants the subpoenas
limited. Regarding Plaintiff’s request for an in-camera review, Defendant
argues that such a review is not warranted in this case, as it is typically
used only when an invasion of the work product privilege is claimed, which is
not the issue here. Defendant asserts that an in-camera review of over 50 years
of records would be an unnecessarily burdensome task for the court. Defendant
also rejects Plaintiff's suggestion of a “first look” procedure, noting that
Plaintiff already had the opportunity to manage which documents were disclosed
during the discovery process but failed to produce any medical records or
create a privilege log. 

In reply, Plaintiff states he does not dispute Defendant’s
right to conduct discovery, including subpoenaing his medical providers, but
objects to the broad scope of the subpoenas. Plaintiff argues that the subpoena
requests amount to a “fishing expedition” by seeking the entirety of his
medical history without limitation. Plaintiff contends that even if there were
issues with his compliance in the discovery process, Defendant has no basis for
such broad and intrusive requests. Plaintiff points out that while Defendant is
entitled to mental health records due to the claims of emotional distress from
sexual abuse, Plaintiff has never placed his physical health in controversy. He
argues that Defendant’s request for all medical records, under the guise that they
might reference his mental health, is overly broad and invasive. Plaintiff
agrees to provide records pertinent to mental health, such as any mental status
exams included in broader medical records, but opposes Defendant’s attempt to
access his complete medical history, which he views as an effort to harass and
annoy him. Given the significant privacy concerns, Plaintiff insists that the
subpoenas should be limited to only mental health records. 

The Court finds that Plaintiff has put his mental and
emotional conditions, and certain aspects of his physical condition, at issue
in this case. Plaintiff has alleged damages, including emotional distress,
hypersexuality, difficulties in creating and maintaining relationships, and
confusion over his sexual orientation, making his medical history relevant and
discoverable. The Court also recognizes that Defendant is entitled to seek
discovery to evaluate and potentially challenge Plaintiff’s allegations of over
50 years of harm. The records sought by Defendant are reasonably related to
assessing Plaintiff’s claims, including ongoing mental and emotional distress,
alleged loss of earning capacity, and other damages. The Court finds the
limitations proposed by Defendant to be reasonable. As to the protective order,
Plaintiff has not provided specific terms for a protective order or explained
why Defendant’s offers to limit the subpoenas—by withdrawing requests for
billing records and radiology scans and agreeing to a protective order marking
records as confidential—are inadequate.

Thus,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to quash or modify the subpoenas.







Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JOHN DOE T.A., et
  al.,
 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01191




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
DOE 1, A PUBLIC
  ENTITY, et al.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 




Hearing
Date:             September
10, 2024

 

Moving
Parties:          Defendant,
Redondo Beach Unified School District

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff, John Doe T.A.

HEARING:

(1)   MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES;

(2)   MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO FURTHER
RESPOND TO AND COMPLY WITH DEFENDANT’S REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS.

            The
Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 

 

RULING

(1)   Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RPDs is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide further responses and produce the requested documents within 20 days of
this order.

 

(2)   Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to SPROGS is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered
to provide further responses within 20 days of this order.

            On
August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash or modify subpoena (Res. ID
4322). On August 28, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On September 4, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.

 

            

 

LEGAL
STANDARD

 

When a party to whom an inspection demand is directed fails
to respond under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300(b), a party making
the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand. A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any objection,
including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300(a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id. § 2031.310(h).) 

The propounding party may file motions to compel further
responses to interrogatories or requests for production if it believes the
responses received are (1) evasive, (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections
raised are meritless or overly general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a),
2031.310(a).) In response to a motion to compel further responses, the
respondent bears the burden of justifying any objections. (Fairmont Ins. Co.
v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 

If a party fails to serve timely responses to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses and seek a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds.
(b), (c).) Failure to respond timely waives all objections, including those
based on privilege and work product, unless the party has (1) subsequently
served a response that is in substantial compliance and (2) the failure to
timely respond was due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (a)(1), (a)(2).)

DISCUSSION

Meet and Confer 

            The
parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirement as shown by Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration, wherein he provides that the parties met and conferred
on February 20, 2024, February 27, 2024, and Plaintiff agreed to multiple
extensions to bring these motions. (Mot. Decl. ¶¶ 8-12; Exh. E, F, G.)

RPDs

            Defendant
moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further verified written
responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production Nos. 4, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 19,
20, 37 and to comply with said Requests by producing documents responsive
thereto. The requests are as follows: 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 4: Any and all
documents which substantiate your claims for lost income/earning capacity, if
any, including W-2 forms for the last 10 years.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 9: Any and all state
and federal tax returns filed by plaintiff in the past 10 years, if you are
making a claim for lost income or earning capacity. 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 11: Any and all diary
entries, journal entries, calendar entries or other notes prepared by you or
any person other than your attorneys, that in any way relate to the INCIDENT,
or any injuries or losses sustained by you as a result of the INCIDENT.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 13: Produce each and
every document that lists your primary care doctors in the last 15 years.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 14: Any and all medical
and mental health records and reports prepared by all healthcare providers as a
result of treatment you received for the injuries you are claiming in this
action.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 15: All documents
relating to any mental health treatment you have received from 1966 to the
present.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 19: If you are making a
claim for lost income or earning capacity, produce each and every document,
including but not limited to, paycheck stubs or other wage documents,
evidencing the amount of income you received in the last 10 years.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 20: If you are making a
claim for lost income or earning capacity, produce each and every document
supporting this claim.

 

REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 37: If you are alleging
that you will require future treatment due to any INCIDENT, produce all
documents supporting this contention.

            Plaintiff’s
responses consist of objections such as stating: “This request is overbroad,
unduly burdensome, irrelevant, not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence, and seeks private information of Responding
Party,” or by stating: “After a diligent search and reasonable inquiry,
Responding Party has no documents responsive to this request in his possession,
custody and control.

            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s responses are insufficient, inadequate, incomplete, and
evasive because Plaintiff did not individually address each request for
production and did not state that he would agree to comply, state an inability
to comply, or object to each specific request. The responses must be clear and
specific for each demand, but Plaintiff’s responses do not meet this
requirement. Additionally, Defendant states that Plaintiff did not state
whether they would comply with the requests for production or if they were
unable to comply. The Code of Civil Procedure requires a response to indicate
compliance, partial compliance, or a reasoned statement of inability to comply,
but Plaintiff’s responses failed to provide any such indications, making them
inadequate under the procedural rules.

The Court finds that Defendant is entitled to further
responses. First, the information sought by the requests is relevant because
Defendant seeks information related to Plaintiff’s mental and physical
condition, which Plaintiff has put directly at issue by alleging ongoing mental
and emotional distress, physical ailments, sleeplessness, and substance abuse.
Additionally, Plaintiff’s allegations of ongoing damage from childhood abuse,
beginning approximately 50 years ago, make documents related to treatment over
that period relevant and likely to lead to additional discovery. Second, the
responses are deficient. Plaintiff has a duty to conduct a reasonable
investigation to obtain responsive information from all sources under their
control, including accessing their own medical records. If Plaintiff is unable
to comply with any request, he must provide a detailed explanation of why
compliance is not possible, such as the document never existing, being
destroyed, lost, misplaced, or stolen, and whether it is still within their
possession, custody, or control. Plaintiff did not provide any such
explanations. Moreover, if Plaintiff objects to any part of a request, he must
identify the specific document or category to which the objection applies and
clearly state the grounds for the objection. Plaintiff’s responses fail to
clearly delineate which documents were objected to and did not specify the
basis for any objections.  

 

Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to RPDs.

 

SPROGS

Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to
provide further verified written responses to Defendant’s Special
Interrogatories Nos. 24, 38, 46. The requests are as follows:

SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 24: Please provide the
name, address and telephone number of all health care providers with whom you
have treated from the time of the INCIDENT to the present.

 

SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 38: Please provide the
name, address and telephone number of your primary care doctor with whom you
treated in the last 15 years

 

SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 46: Identify the name,
address, and telephone number of any person who may have knowledge of mental
injur(ies) you claim were caused by an act of inappropriate contact that forms
the basis of this action. 

The responses are as follows:

 

RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 24: Objection: This
interrogatory is overbroad, unduly burdensome, irrelevant, not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and seeks private
information of Responding Party.

 

RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 38: Objection: This
request is overbroad, unduly burdensome, irrelevant, not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and seeks private information
of Responding Party.

 

RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 46: Objection: This
interrogatory is vague and ambiguous, overbroad and unduly burdensome.

The Court finds that the requests are relevant to the
subject matter of the litigation as Plaintiff has placed his mental and
emotional conditions at issue by alleging a wide range of psychological
injuries and symptoms, such as depression, anxiety, feelings of worthlessness,
hypersexuality, flashbacks, difficulties sleeping, trust issues, difficulties
with authority figures, problems in school, challenges in maintaining
interpersonal relationships, social withdrawal, confusion over sexual
orientation, fear, guilt, and shame, as well as a suicide attempt and substance
abuse, which he claims have persisted from 1971 to the present. Given these
expansive claims of ongoing injuries spanning over 50 years, the Court finds
that Defendant is entitled to seek discovery related to any prior or concurrent
causes of these alleged injuries. 

Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s past medical history,
including records from primary care physicians who may have conducted mental
status examinations or prescribed medication for mental health conditions, is
relevant because it could provide insight into other potential sources or
contributing factors to Plaintiff’s current mental and emotional state. For
instance, regular medical records, rather than solely mental health records,
could include information about medications or physical health conditions that
have affected Plaintiff’s mental health, such as depression or anxiety.
Defendant states that it also has reasonable grounds to believe that Plaintiff
has had prior undisclosed treatment related to the claimed injuries, which is
relevant and likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. For
example, Plaintiff sustained industrial injuries to his head and brain in 2021.
Defendant states these records are directly relevant because head injuries are
commonly known to cause symptoms such as depression and anxiety—the same
symptoms Plaintiff claims in this case. Furthermore, Defendant offered to agree
to a stipulated protective order to mark all records received via subpoena as
“Confidential,” addressing any privacy concerns Plaintiff might have. 

The Court finds that Defendant’s requests are reasonable
and Plaintiff’s objections based on privacy grounds are without merit, as he
has not met his burden of proving that these objections outweigh Defendant’s
right to discovery.

Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to SPROGs. 

Sanctions

As Defendant does not request sanctions, the Court will not
award any.




Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JOHN DOE T.A.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01191




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] ORDER
  DENYING MOTION TO QUASH OR MODIFY SUBPOENAS, OR FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
 




 
DOE 1, A PUBLIC
  ENTITY, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 




Hearing
Date:             September
11, 2024 (Advanced to September 10th)

Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
John Doe T.A.

Responding
Party:      Defendant Redondo Beach Unified
School District

Motion
to Quash or Modify Subpoenas or in the Alternative, for a Protective Order 

            The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.

RULING

Plaintiff’s motion to quash or modify subpoenas, or for a
protective order is DENIED.

            On
August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash or modify subpoenas or in
the alterative, a protective order. On August 28, 2024, Defendant Redondo Beach
Unified School District (“Defendant”) filed an opposition. On September 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.

 DISCUSSION

Plaintiff moves to quash the subpoenas for production of
business records served by Defendant on (1) Workers Compensation Appeals Board,
(2) Chen Nowzari, LLP, (3) Albert & Mackenzie, and (4) Helmsman Management
Services, seeking records related to Plaintiff’s 2021 Workers’ Compensation
claim. (Shirdel Decl., Exhs. 1-4.) Alternatively, Plaintiff requests a
protective order.

Plaintiff argues the information sought is privileged and
invasive of plaintiff’s constitutional right of privacy; the information sought
is not relevant to the subject matter of this action, nor reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; and the subpoenas are
overbroad in time and scope. Moreover, Plaintiff argues the request seeks
records which are protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work
product doctrine of both Plaintiff as well as his employers.

The right of privacy of individuals is protected by the
California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.) The framework for
evaluating invasions of privacy in discovery have been clarified in Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.  There, the California
Supreme Court held that, generally, “[t]he party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.  The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy.  A court must then balance these competing considerations.” 
(Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 533, citing Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 

California’s Constitutional right to privacy protects
against the unwarranted, compelled disclosure of various private or sensitive
information regarding one’s personal life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)

Here, while Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation records are
protected by his right to privacy, Defendant establishes that the records
sought are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and serve the important
interest of assessing damages and building its defense. Thus, Plaintiff does
not possess a reasonable expectation of privacy in these records. Plaintiff’s
claim for damages includes “[s]ubstantial emotional and mental injuries,
including but not limited to, depression, anxiety, feelings of worthlessness,
hypersexuality, flashbacks, difficulties sleeping, trust issues, difficulties
of authority figures, difficulties in school, difficulties creating and
maintaining interpersonal relationships, social withdrawal, confusion over
sexual orientation, fear, guilt and shame. [Plaintiff] has a suicidal attempt,
would abuse drugs (cocaine, marijuana) and would abuse alcohol. [Plaintiff] has
been diagnosed with depression.” (Shirdel Decl., Exh. 5 – Plaintiff’s Responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One, No. 6.2.) Further, plaintiff is claiming a
loss of earning capacity. (Ovitz Decl., Exh. B.)

Defendant pulled the workers’ compensation claim for
plaintiff from the Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (WCAB) website. (Ovitz
Decl., Exh. F.) This revealed that plaintiff’s claimed injuries in his workers’
compensation claim involved his head and brain. (Id.) Brain injuries can
result in anxiety and depression, the same injuries claimed by plaintiff in
this lawsuit.

Next, as to the loss of earnings claim, Defendant would
need to assess Plaintiff’s claim in that Plaintiff’s medical conditions, such
as a walking impairment or lifting restriction, or other things that plaintiff
may have sought treatment for in the workers compensation case, may affect
plaintiff’s capacity to earn income. Although Plaintiff’s counsel indicated
that Plaintiff may not be claiming a loss of earning capacity, Defendant argues
that this has not been memorialized in a written stipulation by the parties or
in further verified discovery responses of plaintiff. Therefore, this claim for
damages is still at issue.

Further, any threatened intrusion of confidential
information is rendered not serious with entry of a protective order.
(See Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at 38 (“[I]f intrusion is limited
and confidential information is carefully shielded from disclosure except to
those who have a legitimate need to know, privacy concerns are
assuaged.”).) Here, Defendant offered to agree to a stipulated protective
order.

Attorney-Client Privilege and Work Product Doctrine

The attorney-client privilege is contained in Evidence Code
section 950 et seq., and in general allows the client “to refuse to disclose,
and to prevent another from disclosing, a confidential communication between
client and lawyer...” (Evid. Code, § 954.) Documents prepared independently by
a party, including witness statements, do not become privileged communications
or work product merely because they are turned over to counsel. (See Nacht
& Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214.)

“The work product rule in California creates for the
attorney a qualified privilege against discovery of general work product and an
absolute privilege against disclosure of writings containing the attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions or legal theories.” (Wellpoint Health
Networks v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 119-120.)

A party claiming that the attorney-client privilege or work
product doctrine as a basis to resist or limit discovery has the
initial burden of establishing the factual basis for the claim. (Zimmerman
v. Sup. Ct. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 389, 402; Santa Rosa
Memorial Hospital v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711, 727-728.) The
court may require the party who opposes the discovery to prepare and
serve a “privilege log,” the purpose of which is to make a record of
the documents withheld and the privilege claim asserted as to each. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1); Best Products, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004)
119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188-1189; Wellpoint, supra, 59
Cal.App.4th at 130.) “The information in the privilege log must be sufficiently
specific to allow a determination of whether each withheld document is or is
not (in) fact privileged.” (Wellpoint, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th
at 130.)

Plaintiff argues that the documents responsive to the
subpoena covered by the attorney-client privilege and protection of the work
product doctrine, but he makes only general statements to support this
argument. It is certainly possible that all of the responsive documents would
be protected from discovery, but Plaintiff has not presented any evidence to
the Court to support that conclusion – and it is also possible that only some
responsive documents would be protected from discovery; that no responsive documents
would be protected from discovery; or that some or all responsive documents
would be subject to only qualified protection, and not absolute protection, by
the work product doctrine. Plaintiff has the burden of showing that a privilege
or protection from disclosure actually applies to the documents at issue – and
speculation about what might be in the files of former counsel is not
sufficient to meet that burden.

This is not to say, however, that Plaintiff’s former
counsel must necessarily produce every document that is responsive to the
subpoena. If Plaintiff or his former counsel have a good faith claim that some
responsive documents are protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or the
work product doctrine, those documents may be identified in a privilege log
that is served on Defendant’s counsel. If there is a challenge to any assertion
of the attorney-client privilege or work product protection, counsel is
directed to meet and confer; if no agreement is reached, any party (or
Plaintiff’s former counsel) may file any appropriate motion or application with
the Court.

For the same reasons, the motion for a protective order is
denied.

CONCLUSION

Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash or
modify subpoenas, or for a protective order is DENIED.

 

Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 

 

 










 