  Case Number:  21STCV47317    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  B Hearing:          01/21/2025
Re:                   21STCV47317 Robert
Rothschild vs Shahram Poorbehmardeyan

 

 
Defendant Sharam Poorbehmardeyan (“Defendant”)’s Motions to Compel Robert
Rothschild (“Plaintiff”)’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is granted. Plaintiff
is ordered to serve Defendant with verified, objection-free responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, within 20 days of this hearing, on the
condition that Defendant pay $120.00 in outstanding filing fees. Additionally,
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay
$260.00 in sanctions to defense counsel within 20 days.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and
for a monetary sanction. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(b).) The statute does
not contain a time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been
served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of
interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
 
Where there has been no timely response to interrogatories, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300(b).) Failure
to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (CCP
§ 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains
relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the interrogatories.
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion.
 
Request for Production of Documents
 
If a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel . . . responses to interrogatories or production demands, absent
substantial justification or other circumstances that make imposing the
sanctions unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290(c).) Similarly, “[t]he court may impose
a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes
“[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and
“[d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d) and
(g).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Shahram Poorbehmardeyan (“Defendant”) moves to compel
Plaintiff Robert Rothschild (“Plaintiff”)’s responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One. Defendant also seeks sanctions in the amount of $260.00,
comprised of an hourly rate of $220.00 and a $60.00 filing fee. (Stratman Decl.
¶ 9.)
 
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s response to discovery because Plaintiff
failed to provide any responses. Defendant propounded discovery requests on
Plaintiff on May 23, 2024. (Stratman Decl. ¶¶ 3-5; Exhs. A, B, and C [discovery
requests].) Plaintiff never provided responses. (Ibid. at ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
In the future, Defendant is ordered to obtain separate hearing
reservations and pay separate filing fees for each motion to compel. Combining
multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation
manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other
litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of filing fees deprives
the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
Be that as it may, since these motions are unopposed, the Court orders
the following, effective once Defendant pays an additional $120.00 in filing
fees:
 
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One are granted. Plaintiff is to serve Defendant
with verified, objection-free responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within
20 days of this hearing.
 
Considering Plaintiff’s failure to comply with their discovery
obligations, the Court orders Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and
severally, to pay sanctions in the reduced amount of $260.00, payable to defense
counsel within 20 days of this hearing.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 