 Case Number:  24STCP00228    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




the greenspan company, a/k/a
   the greenspan co. / adjusters international

   ;
 
Petitioner,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lavkumar barot

   , et al.;
 
Respondents.


Case
  No.:


24STCP00228




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
petition for order compelling arbitration



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner The Greenspan
Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters International        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
Petition for Order Compelling Arbitration
The court
considered the petition, second amended hearing on the petition, and supporting
declaration filed in connection with the petition.  No response or opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Petitioner The Greenspan Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters
International (“Petitioner”) moves the court for an order granting its petition
and directing respondents Lavkumar Barot (“L. Barot”) and Ingrid Barot (“I.
Barot”) (collectively, “Respondents”) to submit the parties’ dispute related to
the Public Adjuster Contract (the “Agreement”) to binding arbitration.[1]

“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy
or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable,
save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., §¿1281.)¿ If the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, that the petitioner has not waived the right to compel
arbitration, and that no grounds exist for recission of the agreement, the
court “shall” order the parties to arbitrate the controversy.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.)¿ 
“‘ “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the
petition bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s
enforcement.” ’”¿ (Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292,
302.)¿ To determine the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court uses
“a three-step burden-shifting process.”¿ (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)¿ “The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim,
or provide a copy of, the alleged agreement.¿ [Citations.]¿ A movant can bear
this initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”¿ (Ibid. [internal
citations omitted].)¿ “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to
the agreement’s existence . . . .”¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the opposing party meets
its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to
the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration
proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.¿ (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)¿ 
First, the court finds that Petitioner has met its burden to prove the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate between it and respondent L. Barot. 
Petitioner has submitted a copy of the Agreement in support of its
petition, which includes the following arbitration provision:  “In the event of a dispute arising out of
this Contract or the subject matter thereof (whether based on contract, tort,
statutory or equitable law)[,] the parties, including their affiliated parties,
agree to waive their right to jury trial and to submit their dispute to binding
arbitration with ADR Services, Inc. (‘ADR’) in Los Angeles, California . . .
.”  (Blumkin Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, p.
1.)  The Agreement purports to bear the
signature of L. Barot.  
L. Barot did not file an opposition or response to the petition, and
therefore has not met his burden to identify a factual dispute as to the
existence of the Agreement and the authenticity of his signature.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.)  The court therefore finds
that Petitioner has met its burden of proving the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate between it and Respondent L. Barot. 
(Ibid.)  The court further
finds that Petitioner has presented evidence showing that there is a dispute “arising
out of th[e] [Agreement]” since L. Barot has not paid to Petitioner the fees
that it contends it is owed pursuant to the Agreement and therefore has shown
that the parties’ dispute is encompassed by the arbitration provision
therein.  (Blumkin Decl., ¶ 18; Blumkin
Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, p. 1.)  
Second, the court finds that, because L. Barot has not filed an
opposition or response to the petition, L. Barot has not met his burden to
prove a defense to the enforcement of the Agreement.  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at
p. 302.) 
The court therefore grants Petitioner’s petition to compel L. Barot to
arbitrate the fee dispute described in the declaration of Matthew Blumkin.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
Third, the court finds that Petitioner has not met its burden to prove
the existence of an agreement to arbitrate between it and I. Barot.
As set forth above, Petitioner has based its petition on the
Agreement.  (Pet., ¶ 12 [quoting from
Agreement]; Second Amended Notice of Hearing, pp. 7:24-8:6, 8:24-25.)  While the Agreement identifies I. Barot as an
insured along with L. Barot, the Agreement is not signed by I. Barot.  (Blumkin Decl., Ex. 1, Agreement, pp.
1-3.)  The Agreement is signed and
initialed only by L. Barot and an agent for Petitioner.  (Ibid.)  Thus, Petitioner has not submitted an
arbitration agreement “‘purportedly bearing [I. Barot’s] signature.’”  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.) 
The court acknowledges that Petitioner has also submitted a copy of
the Client Trust Agreement, which purports to bear the signature of I.
Barot.  (Blumkin Decl., Ex. 10, p.
2.)  However, this agreement does not appear
to include an arbitration agreement. 
While the court notes that it states that the subject funds shall be
held in a trust account that will be distributed “upon either (1) mutual
agreement between the parties before the Fee Arbitration or (2) upon receipt by
the parties of the Fee Arbitration Award from ADR Services” and therefore appears
to contemplate arbitration between the parties, the language of this provision
does not constitute an agreement to arbitrate.  (Blumkin Decl., Ex. 10, p. 1.)  
Further, Petitioner has not presented evidence or argument
establishing that it may enforce the arbitration provision against I. Barot, a
nonsignatory, pursuant to an exception.  (JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236-1237 [“‘Generally
speaking, one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or
invoke it.’  [Citations.]  ‘There are exceptions to the general rule
that a nonsignatory to an agreement cannot be compelled to arbitrate and cannot
invoke an agreement to arbitrate, without being a party to the arbitration
agreement’”].)  Petitioner did not, for
example, argue that it may enforce the Agreement against I. Barot on the ground
that she is a third-party beneficiary of the Agreement or pursuant to the
doctrine of equitable estoppel. 
Thus, the court finds that Petitioner has not met its burden to prove
the existence of an arbitration agreement between it and I. Barot and therefore
denies its petition to compel I. Barot to binding arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Iyere, supra,
87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
ORDER
            The court grants in part, and denies
in part, petitioner The Greenspan Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters
International’s Petition for Order Compelling Arbitration as follows. 
            The court grants petitioner The
Greenspan Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters International’s Petition
for Order Compelling Arbitration against respondent Lavkumar Barot. 
            The court denies petitioner The
Greenspan Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters International’s Petition
for Order Compelling Arbitration against respondent Ingrid Barot. 
            The court orders petitioner The
Greenspan Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters International and
respondent Lavkumar Barot to submit to binding arbitration the fee dispute
arising out of the parties’ “Public Adjuster Contract,” executed on November 7,
2020.
            The court orders petitioner The
Greenspan Company, a/k/a The Greenspan Co. / Adjusters International to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


