 Case Number:  BC670702    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jacob blalock

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
halt gold group, llc, d/b/a
   patriot gold group, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC670702




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:


11:00
  a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  cross-defendants’
  motion to quash trial subpoena issued to lear capital, inc.
(2)  
  cross-defendants’
  motion to quash trial subpoena issued to hubspot, inc.
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Cross-defendants Jacob Blalock,
Benjamin Novak, and Orion Precious Metals, Inc.    
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-complainant Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold
Group LLC
(1)  
Motion
to Quash Trial Subpoena Issued to Lear Capital, Inc. 
(2)  
Motion
to Quash Trial Subpoena Issued to HubSpot, Inc.
The court considered the moving and opposition papers filed in
connection with the motion to quash the trial subpoena issued to Lear Capital,
Inc.  No reply papers were filed.
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the motion to quash the trial subpoena issued to HubSpot, Inc.
MOTION TO QUASH TRIAL SUBPOENA ISSUED TO
LEAR CAPITAL, INC. 
Cross-defendants Jacob
Blalock, Benjamin Novak, and Orion Precious Metals, Inc. (“Cross-Defendants”)
move the court for an order quashing the Civil Subpoena Duces Tecum for
Personal Appearance and Production of Documents at Trial issued to the
custodian of records for Lear Capital, Inc. (“Lear”) by cross-complainant Halt
Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group, LLC (“Cross-Complainant”).  Alternatively, Cross-Defendants request that
the court issue a protective order to narrow the scope of the trial subpoena to
testimony and record production related solely to the shipping and transaction
agreements for the identified customers. 
            On
August 13, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a “Notice of Agreement re
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Quash the Trial Subpoena Issued to Lear Capital,
Inc.,” in which Cross-Defendants represent that the parties met and conferred
with Lear “and reached a mutual agreement regarding the scope of
Cross-Complainants’ trial subpoena to Lear Capital, Inc.”  (Aug. 13, 2024 Notice, p. 2:1-5.)  The court therefore finds that
Cross-Defendants’ motion to quash the trial subpoena to Lear is moot.
MOTION TO QUASH TRIAL SUBPOENA ISSUED TO
HUBSPOT, INC. 
Cross-Defendants move the
court for an order quashing the Civil Subpoena Duces Tecum for Personal
Appearance and Production of Documents at Trial issued to the custodian of
records for HubSpot, Inc. (“HubSpot”) by Cross-Complainant and Mike Celano.  Alternatively, Cross-Defendants request that
the court issue a protective order to narrow the scope of the trial subpoena.  The subpoena includes 2,907 document requests,
most of which request the production of documents regarding potential customers
of Cross-Complainant.  (Nemecek Decl., ¶
13.) 
The court grants Cross-Defendants’ motion to quash the subpoena issued
to HubSpot.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).) 
First, the court finds that the supporting affidavit does not adequately
“set[] forth in full detail the materiality [of all the documents requested] to
the issues involved in the case” as required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985, subd. (b).) 
The supporting affidavit states that the documents are material and
relevant because (1) they contain information concerning Cross-Complainant’s
former customers that were later solicited by Cross-Defendants, (2) they will
prove Cross-Complainant’s damages, and (3) they “may” reveal evidence of
additional defamatory statements made by Cross-Defendants.  (Zaffos Decl., Ex. 4, p. 2, ¶ 4.)  However, the affidavit does not specifically
address each document request or group of document requests, or explain how the
requests for “all documents” pertaining to the approximately 2,000 individuals are
material to those issues.
Thus, the court finds that the affidavit “lack[s] any factual bases
for the[] materiality” of each of the 2,907 document demands and therefore does
not comply with section 1985.  (Lee,
supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at p. 1139.) 
Second, the court finds that the supporting affidavit does not “specify[]
the exact matters or things to be produced” and instead generally requests “all
documents pertaining to” approximately 2,900 potential customers.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985, subd. (b); Zaffos
Decl., Ex. 4, Categories of Business Records to be Produced.) 
Third, the court finds that the subpoena is unduly burdensome and
includes unreasonable and oppressive demands by requiring HubSpot to conduct a
search of electronically stored information and hardcopy documents for
approximately 2,900 customers and to produce responsive records with respect
thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1985,
subd. (b), 1987.1.)
ORDER
            The court orders that cross-defendants Jacob Blalock, Benjamin
Novak, and Orion Precious Metals, Inc.’s motion to quash the trial subpoena to
Lear Capital, Inc. or, in the alternative, issue a protective order is taken
off calendar as moot.
            The court grants cross-defendants Jacob Blalock, Benjamin
Novak, and Orion Precious Metals, Inc.’s motion to quash the trial subpoena to
HubSpot, Inc. 
            The
court orders that the Civil Subpoena Duces Tecum for Personal Appearance and
Production of Documents at Trial issued to the custodian of records for
HubSpot, Inc. by cross-complainants Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold
Group, LLC, and Mike Celano is quashed.
 
 
 
            The court orders cross-defendants Jacob Blalock, Benjamin
Novak, and Orion Precious Metals, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court