  Case Number:  21SMVC01617    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Tower Goal, Ltd.’s, Future Land, Ltd.’s, and
International Asia Holdings, LLC’s Motions for Summary Judgment
            Defendants Tower Goal, Ltd.
(Tower), Future Land, Ltd. (Future), and International Asia Holdings, LLC
(International) each move for summary judgment of this action by plaintiffs
Donoco Investments, LLC (Donoco) and Donald Okada. 
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiffs
make one objection to defendants’ evidence. 
The objection is overruled.
            Defendants
make 43 objections to the declaration of Donald Okada.  Objection Nos. 2, 3, and 30-32 are sustained.  Objection Nos. 1, 4-29, and 33-43 are overruled.
            Defendants
make 19 objections to the declaration of Brandon Rosenberg.  All 19 objections are overruled.  
            Defendants
make 13 objections to the declaration of Maria Ajhar Thompson.  All 13 objections are sustained.
            Defendants
make 18 objections to the declaration of Jeff Voorheis.  All 18 objections are overruled.
Legal Standard
A defendant moving
for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause of action…
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.”  (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)  Once the defendant does so, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show a triable issue of at least one material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849.)  Courts use a
three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  
1. Trespass
“The elements of trespass are: (1)
the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant’s
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of
permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.”  (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.)
            A. Tower
Goal, Ltd.
            Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of plaintiffs’ trespass
claim against Tower.  Tower attempts to
negate the second element: entry on plaintiffs’ property.  Plaintiffs present sufficient evidence to
create a genuine dispute of fact.  Plaintiffs
hired a licensed land surveyor, Jeff Voorheis, to survey the property in
September 2023.  (Voorheis Decl., ¶¶
1-6.)  Voorheis determined the boundary
lines of Donoco’s property and the locations of fences and other structures on
it.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-9.)  Voorheis states there are two fences on the
property: one entirely on the Donoco property and one partially on the property
that “then extends south on the Tower Goal Property about a thousand feet along
the Tower Goal boundary line.”  (Id.,
¶ 15.)  Donald Okada testifies that
neither he nor his affiliated entities that have owned the Donoco property put
any fence there.  (Okada Decl., ¶¶
13-14.) 
Plaintiffs also present evidence that
Sang Hoon Lee—who states he is the only employee or agent Tower has ever had
(Lee Decl., ¶ 3)—testified at deposition that someone named Javier Castillo
moved a fence on Tower’s property (Thompson Decl., Ex. A, Lee Depo.,
26:23-27:4) after Castillo “asked me if he could move it and I made the
decision myself” to do so (id., 29:5-6).
From this evidence, a factfinder
could reasonably infer that Tower owns the fence.  “Where … the plaintiff seeks to prove an
essential element of her case by circumstantial evidence, she cannot recover
merely by showing that the inferences she draws from those circumstances are consistent
with her theory.  Instead, she must show
that the inferences favorable to her are more reasonable or probable
than those against her.”  (Leslie G.
v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 472, 483.)  According to Voorheis, the fence is on
property belonging to two entities: Donoco and Tower.  Donoco did not put it there.  An inference that Tower put it there is more
likely than a contrary inference that someone who owns neither property
did.  This evidence suffices to show a
triable issue of fact on whether Tower entered plaintiffs’ property.
            B.
Future Land, Ltd. and International Asia Holdings, LLC
Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of the first cause of action against Future and
International.  They meet their initial
burden of showing plaintiffs cannot establish the second element: entry on
plaintiffs’ land.  They do so via
declarations from Future’s officer and manager Jaewon Bang and Sang Hoon Lee,
an officer and manager of Tower and International, that they are the entities’
sole employees or agents, and they have never entered plaintiffs’ property,
never placed a fence on plaintiffs’ property, and never authorized anyone else
to do so.  (Bang Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3, 6-12;
Lee Decls., ¶¶ 1, 3-10.)
Plaintiffs present sufficient
evidence to establish triable issues of material fact.  Okada owns Lot 47, “a 1 foot by 42 strip of
land” that divides the end of the public road, Kirkland Drive, from the Tower
property.  (Okada Decl., ¶ 7.)  Tower therefore “cannot gain access to its
property from Kirkland Drive without trespassing over Lot 47.”  (Ibid.)  Okada testifies that in March 2021, he “witnessed
3 to 4 people, dressed in similar clothing (dark pants and light shirts), which
appeared to be a uniform, performing landscape work on both the IAH Property
and the Tower Property.  One man was
working trimming tall hedges behind the house on Lot 33, with one or two other
people near him.  Another worker dressed
the same way was on the Tower Goal side of Fence Two.”  (Id., ¶ 22.)  He then “observed one worker walking down the
concrete drainage swale located on the Donoco Property to cross to the Tower
Property.”  (Id., ¶ 24.)  Okada also “noticed one of the workers
locking the gate at the
terminus of the swale at the bottom of Kirkland Drive, at Lots 33 and 47, and
who appeared to be making his way across the swale to the Tower Property and
Future Property.  The worker had to have crossed
my lot, Lot 47, in order to get to the gate.” 
(Ibid.)
Brandon Rosenberg was also at
Donoco’s property with Okada in March 2021. 
(Rosenberg Decl., ¶ 5.)  He testifies
he “saw several workers performing landscaping work on the adjoining properties
all dressed alike in dark pants” and “saw some of them cross between the
adjoining properties.”  (Id., ¶
7.)  
From this evidence, a reasonable
factfinder could infer that these workers acted at defendants’ behest and entered
Donoco’s property and Okada’s property.  The
inferences favoring plaintiffs are more reasonable than those favoring
defendants.  People generally do not perform
landscaping on others’ property without permission.  An inference that defendants directed these
landscapers to work at their properties is more probable than a contrary inference
that they were strangers to defendants. 
Okada and Rosenberg saw the workers cross between the adjoining
properties, which are separated by Donoco’s property.  The more probable inference is therefore that
the workers entered Donoco’s property.  Finally,
an inference that at least one of the workers crossed Lot 47 is more probable
than the contrary inference that they got from Tower’s property to a gate on
the other side of Lot 47 without crossing Lot 47.  
2. Quiet Title
All three defendants are entitled to
summary adjudication of this cause of action. 
Plaintiff Donoco brings a cause of action for quiet title to its real
property with respect to both ownership and an easement.  (Comp., ¶¶ 24-27.)  A quiet title
action’s purpose “ ‘is to finally settle and determine, as between the parties,
all conflicting claims to the property in controversy, and to decree to each
such interest or estate therein as he [or she] may be entitled to.’ … The quiet
title plaintiff must” allege “the adverse claims the plaintiff seeks to
adjudicate.”  (Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 513, 524.)  “An
element of a cause of action for quiet title is ‘[t]he adverse claims to the
title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought.’ ”  (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 802.)  
Each
defendant presents evidence it does not claim any interest adverse to Donoco’s interest
in the subject property.  Tower’s officer
and manager Sang Hoon Lee states: “Tower does not claim, and has never claimed,
to have any right, title, or interest in the Donoco Easement beyond those
rights and interests expressly granted to Hutton’s assigns in the Heilman Deed
and those rights and interests expressly granted in the Pattin Deed.  Tower does not claim, and has never claimed,
to have a right to any use of the Donoco Easement beyond the uses expressly
granted to Hutton’s assigns in the Heilman Deed and those uses expressly
granted in the Pattin Deed.  …  Tower does not claim, and has never claimed,
to have a right to use the Donoco Easement to access adjoining properties.  Tower does not claim, and has never claimed,
to have any right, title, or interest in the Donoco Property.  Tower does not claim, and has never claimed,
to have a right to use any of the Donoco Property.”  (Lee Decl. ISO Tower, ¶¶ 9-10, 12-14.)  
Sang
Hoon Lee is also an officer and manager of defendant International Asia
Holdings, LLC.  (Lee Decl. ISO
International, ¶ 1.)  Lee provides
substantively identical testimony on behalf of International: that it does not
and has never claimed any interest in the subject property beyond the easement
expressly granted in the Heilman Deed and Pattin Deed.  (Id., ¶¶ 11-16.) 
Future,
meanwhile, presents testimony from officer and manager Jaewon Bang.  Bang states Future does not claim and has
never claimed any right to the subject property or the easement over it.  (Bang Decl., ¶¶ 13-17.)
Donoco
purports to dispute these facts via the entire declarations of Donald Okada, Jeff
Voorheis, and Brandon Rosenberg.  (E.g., Opp.
to Tower Separate Statement, Nos. 68-69.)  A trial court generally has “no obligation to
undertake its own search of the record ‘backwards and forwards to try to figure
out how the law applies to the facts’ of the case.”  (Quantum Cooking Concepts, Inc. v. LV
Associates, Inc. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 927, 934.)  The evidence plaintiffs cite concerns only
trespass.  It does not establish that any
defendant claims real property rights adverse to plaintiffs’ title.  
Donoco makes only a conclusory
argument that trespass constitutes “de facto claiming an adverse interest” in
real property.  It does not.  Donoco presents no authority for that
proposition.  Trespass is a tort
concerning one person’s entry onto another’s real property.  Quiet title is a statutory cause of action to
determine parties’ rights to property.  Trespass
and quiet title may overlap via the doctrines of adverse possession and
prescriptive easement—but defendants are presently disclaiming any right to the
Donoco property beyond the recorded easement. 

3. Declaratory Relief
            Plaintiff
Donoco brings a cause of action for declaratory relief against each defendant.  Defendants argue this cause of action cannot
stand on its own because it derives from plaintiffs’ first two causes of
action.  The court is not granting
summary adjudication of the first cause of action.  It therefore also cannot grant summary adjudication
of the third cause of action for declaratory relief.
Disposition
The court hereby grants
summary adjudication of plaintiff Donoco Investments, LLC’s second cause of
action in favor of defendants Tower Goal, Ltd., Future Land, Ltd., and International
Asia Holdings, LLC.  The court hereby denies
summary adjudication of the first and third causes of action against each
defendant.
 