 Case Number:  23STCV05027    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
            Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan moves for judgment on the pleadings on the two
remaining causes of action alleged in the first amended complaint by plaintiffs
Markeisha Cassidy-Dawson and minor Melrose D.-F.
2nd Cause of Action: Government Code § 11135
Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts for this
cause of action.  
A. Damages
Plaintiffs seek monetary damages (FAC, prayer ¶¶
1-4, 7).  This cause of action does not
permit monetary damages.  Government Code
section 11135(a) prohibits discrimination based on race or other protected bases
in “any program or activity that is conducted, operated, or administered by the
state or by any state agency, is funded directly by the state, or receives any
financial assistance from the state.”  
Sections 11137 and 11139 provide remedies available
for a violation.  First, section 11137
provides, “If it is determined that a contractor, grantee, or local agency has
violated the provisions of this article …, the state agency that administers
the program or activity involved shall take action to curtail state funding in
whole or in part to such contractor, grantee, or local agency.”  Second, section 11139 provides, “The
prohibitions and sanctions imposed by this article are in addition to any other
prohibitions and sanctions imposed by law. 
[¶¶]  This article and regulations
adopted pursuant to this article may be enforced by a civil action for
equitable relief, which shall be independent of any other rights and remedies.”  
The Court of Appeal has noted that “the Legislature
… amended Government Code section 11139 to expressly provide for a private
right of action, but expressly limited enforcement to a ‘civil action for
equitable relief.’ ”  (Donovan v.
Poway Unified School Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 594.)  The Legislature further amended the statute
“to clarify a victim of discrimination ‘need not pursue administrative or any
other remedies prior to, or instead of, bringing an action for equitable
relief, nor would any victim be required to elect one remedy.’ ”  (Ibid.)  The court concluded, “Government Code section
11139 demonstrates that when the Legislature wanted to limit the remedies
available in a private enforcement action to equitable or injunctive relief, it
clearly knew how to do so.”  (Id.
at p. 595.)
Plaintiffs argue Donovan’s discussion of
Government Code section 11139 is dicta. 
Even if so, it is persuasive. 
Plaintiffs provide no contrary authority.  As Donovan discusses, the Legislature
clearly knows how to provide citizens a private right of action for money
damages for violating civil rights statutes. 
For example, Civil Code section 52(a) provides that anyone who “makes
any discrimination or distinction contrary to Section 51, 51.5, or 51.6, is
liable for each and every offense for the actual damages.”  The Legislature did not do so for Government
Code section 11135 et seq.  
That Government Code section 11139 provides for equitable
relief “independent of any other rights or remedies” does not mean it permits
monetary damages for violating section 11135. 
Those independent remedies rely on an independent statutory or tort
right.
B. Equitable Relief
Plaintiffs also seek injunctive relief (FAC, prayer
¶¶ 5, 8) and other unspecified “relief available in law and equity as the Court
may deem just and proper” (id., ¶ 11). 
Plaintiffs specifically pray for “an order and judgment enjoining
Defendants from violating Government Code section 11135 and its implementing
regulations … including but not necessarily limited to: a. Adequately monitor
and enforce existing network adequacy and timely access requirements for all
Medi-Cal beneficiaries; [and] b. Remove excessive barriers to access to care
for Medi-Cal beneficiaries, including by facilitating referrals to specialists.”  (Id., ¶ 5.)  
The “ ‘purpose of a prohibitory injunction is to
prevent future harm to the applicant by ordering the defendant to refrain from
doing a particular act’; such relief exists ‘only to prevent threatened injury
and has no application to wrongs that have been completed.’ ”  (Shaw v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 740, 768.) 
A prohibitory injunction “should not be issued unless there is ‘evidence
establishing the reasonable probability the acts will be repeated in the
future.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “A mandatory injunction, on the other hand,
orders a party to take action to remedy some harm.  Thus, mandatory ‘injunctive relief has been
upheld where the defendant’s completed act causes ongoing harm or is part of a
continuing course of conduct.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “[T]o obtain injunctive relief the plaintiff
must ordinarily show that the defendant’s wrongful acts threaten to cause irreparable injuries,
ones that cannot be adequately compensated in damages.”  (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30
Cal.4th 1342, 1352.)  
Plaintiffs’ second
cause of action does not allege any probability of future harm or any
irreparable past harm warranting the remedy of a mandatory injunction.  Only plaintiffs’ third cause of action, which
has been dismissed, alleges defendant “has committed, and is continuing to
commit, ongoing unlawful, unfair, and/or fraudulent business practices.”  (FAC, ¶ 62.) 

Assuming that
allegation applies to plaintiffs’ other causes of action, it does not support injunctive
relief for plaintiffs.  They live outside
of the only Counties where defendant operates its programs.  It is undisputed that defendant Inland Empire
Health Care administers healthcare programs only for residents of the Counties
of Riverside and San Bernardino.  (See Allied
Anesthesia Medical Group, Inc. v. Inland Empire Health Plan (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 794, 798 [IEHP is the local initiative Medi-Cal managed care plan
that ‘operates under a joint powers agreement between Riverside and San
Bernardino Counties to provide health coverage for Medi-Cal participants’ ”].)  
The first amended complaint does not allege any
likelihood of a future controversy involving plaintiffs and defendant because
plaintiffs do not live in Riverside or San Bernardino County.  It instead alleges Cassidy-Dawson “is, and at
all relevant times was, an individual with residence within the County of Orange.
 All alleged conduct hereinafter alleged
occurred in said County.”  (¶ 1.)  The declaration plaintiff Markeisha
Cassidy-Dawson submitted in May 2023 in support of the opposition to
defendant’s demurrer and motion to transfer venue also states she “reside[s] in
the County of Orange.”  (RJN Ex. E, Cassidy-Dawson
Decl. dated 5/5/23, p. 2.)  
The relevant Medi-Cal program there is CalOptima—not
Inland Empire Health Plan.  (See Van
Tran v. Orange County Health Authority (E.D. Cal., Dec. 6, 2005, No.
CIVS-05-767 LKK/PAN) 2005 WL 3299686, at *2 [the State “arranged with
CalOptima, as a payer, to exclusively arrange for and pay providers to furnish
Medi-Cal services to Medi-Cal beneficiaries residing in Orange County”].)  Whether defendant complies with Government
Code section 11135 in the future does not constitute an ongoing controversy
with plaintiffs, who are not eligible members of defendant’s health plan.   
Plaintiffs’ opposition argues Cassidy-Dawson is “an
indigent individual who does not have permanent housing.”  (Opp., p. 3) and that “it can be reasonably
inferred that Ms. Dawson [is] an indigent individual who does not have
permanent housing and uses her mother’s (Melrose’s maternal grandmother) home
address in the Inland Empire as her permanent and stable home” (id., p.
11).  But the first amended complaint does
not allege that.  It alleges she lives in
Orange County.  That plaintiffs could
move to defendant’s region is mere speculation. 
(See Korean Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1084 [“An injunction cannot issue in a vacuum based on the
proponents’ fears about something that may happen in the future.  It must be supported by actual evidence that
there is a realistic prospect that the party enjoined intends to engage in the
prohibited activity”].)
That defendant could violate Government Code section
11135 against members—other than plaintiffs—does not warrant ordering
injunctive or equitable relief in this action by plaintiffs who live in Orange
County.  This case is neither a class
action, an action by the Civil Rights Department (see Gov. Code, §§ 11136,
12960(e)(3)), nor any other form of action purporting to represent people other
than plaintiffs Markeisha Cassidy-Dawson and Melrose D.-F.  
Plaintiffs’ reliance on Vogel v. Rite Aid Corp.
(C.D. Cal. 2014) 992 F.Supp.2d 998, 1015 is misplaced.  There, the court stated, “A plaintiff is not
required to satisfy the other prerequisites generally needed for injunctive
relief since ‘[t]he standard requirements for equitable relief need not be
satisfied when an injunction is sought to prevent the violation of a federal
statute which specifically provides for injunctive relief.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1015, italics added,
quoting Antoninetti v. Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (9th Cir. 2010) 643
F.3d 1165, 1175–76.)  There, the court
applied the Americans with Disabilities Act (ibid.), which provides, “injunctive
relief shall include an order to alter facilities to make such facilities
readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.”  (42 U.S.C. § 12188(a)(2).)  The court stated, “[I]njunctive relief is
proper when architectural barriers at defendant’s establishment violate the ADA
and the removal of the barriers is readily achievable.”  (Vogel, at p. 1015.)  The relevant federal statute there expressly
permits courts to order a facility to remove an ongoing architectural barrier
to allow access to “individuals with disabilities” in general.  Government Code section 11135 has no such
provision.  
Plaintiffs also argue the court could award them
money as a form of equitable relief.    Plaintiffs provide no authority for doing so
for a violation of Government Code section 11135.  Plaintiffs rely on Cortez v. Purolator Air
Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173, which states that an
action under the Unfair Competition Law “is an equitable action by means of
which a plaintiff may recover money or property obtained from the plaintiff.”  The California Supreme Court held, “[O]rders for payment of wages unlawfully
withheld from an employee are … a restitutionary remedy authorized by” the
UCL.  (Id. at p. 177.)  Defendant successfully demurred to
plaintiffs’ UCL claim.  Plaintiffs do not
seek restitution or disgorgement of money defendant obtained from them.  They seek damages akin to those for personal
injury due to negligent medical care.  There
are ways an injured person could recover such damages.  Government Code section 11135 is not one of
them.
Finally, plaintiffs’ prayer for unspecified
equitable relief does not warrant denying this motion.  They propose no form of equitable relief
other than orders enjoining defendants’ conduct.  Plaintiffs cannot maintain a cause of action
based merely on the general concept of equitable relief.
4th Cause of Action: Substantive Due Process
Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts for this
cause of action for violation of the California Constitution’s right to
substantive due process.  Again, they
seek monetary damages, injunctive relief, and other unspecified equitable
relief.  (FAC, prayer, ¶¶ 1-8, 11.)  
Plaintiffs cannot recover money damages for this
cause of action.  The California Supreme
Court has held the California Constitution’s right to substantive due process
showed no “intent to afford a right to seek damages to remedy” a violation and
found “no basis upon which to recognize a constitutional tort action for such
damages.”  (Katzberg v. Regents of
University of California (2002) 29 Cal.4th 300, 329 (Katzberg).)  The Court concluded money damages are
generally not “available to remedy a constitutional violation that is not tied
to an established common law or statutory action.”  (Id. at p. 303, fn. 1.)  
Plaintiffs attempt to distinguish Katzberg on
the basis that it concerned liberty rights, not property rights.  Article I, section 7(a) of the California
Constitution provides, “A person may not be deprived of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law or denied equal protection of the laws.”  The due process right encompasses both rights
to liberty and property as two of the three listed items.  Though Katzberg involved a liberty
interest, its reasoning applies equally to property interests.  As the concurring and dissenting opinion by
Justice Brown stated, “I concur in the majority's affirmance of the Court of
Appeal's judgment barring plaintiff from seeking damages for any violation
of his state constitutional right to due process.”  (Katzberg, at p. 330, italics added.)  
Katzberg
provides a “framework for determining the existence of a damages action to
remedy an asserted constitutional violation.” 
(29 Cal.4th at p. 317.)  Plaintiffs
make no argument under that framework.  Moreover,
persuasive authority has rejected plaintiffs’ distinction between liberty and
property interests.  (See San Joaquin
Deputy Sheriffs’ Ass’n v. County of San Joaquin (E.D. Cal. 2012) 898
F.Supp.2d 1177, 1190 [“As a matter of common sense, as well as common law, a
deprivation of property is a less egregious loss than a loss of liberty.  Given the [California Supreme Court’s] holding
in Katzberg, the court concludes that plaintiff has no claims under the
California Constitution for money damages”].) 
Plaintiffs provide no authority to the contrary.  
Plaintiffs cannot obtain injunctive or equitable
relief for this cause of action for the same reasons as the second cause of
action.
Disposition
            Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings is granted with 20 days’ leave to
amend.   