  Case Number:  22STCV05079    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion of Defendant Thomas Block for Summary
Judgment/Summary Adjudication; Defendant Sue Emrek’s Joinder to Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
 
The unopposed motion and joinder are granted.
The Court grants the unopposed requests for judicial
notice filed 12/8/24 and 9/21/24.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs NIKI-ALEXANDER SHETTY and ADINA ZAHARESCU (“Plaintiffs”)
bring this case against Defendants Thomas Block and Sue Emrek (“Defendants”)
related to Defendants’ involvement with a loan and deed of trust for the
property at 4351 La Barca Drive, Tarzana, California (the “Property”).
Plaintiffs’ causes of action in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant Block are: (1) Wrongful Foreclosure; (7) Accounting; and (8) Unfair
Business Practices. Plaintiffs’ causes of action against both Defendants are: (2)
Quiet Title; (3) Cancellation of Instrument; (4) Declaratory Relief; (5) Violation
of Regulation Z of the Truth in Lending Act; and (6) Fraud. 
Defendant Block has filed a motion for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the FAC. Defendant
Emrek joins in the motion. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD
In moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
a “defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) 
Once the defendant has satisfied that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show, by responsive separate statement and
admissible evidence, that triable issues of fact exist.”  Ostayan v. Serrano Reconveyance Co.
(2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1411, 1418, disapproved on other grounds by Black
Sky Cap., LLC v. Cobb (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 156, 165; see also CCP §
437c(p)(2). A plaintiff’s failure to provide a separate statement with the
opposition may “constitute a sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for
granting the motion.” (CCP § 437c(b)(3).)
“Judicial notice, of course, may be utilized on a
motion for summary judgment.”  Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 887.  Failure to object to requests for judicial
notice constitutes a waiver of the objection. Giles v. Horn (2002) 100
Cal. App. 4th 206, 228.
DENIAL OF PLAINTIFFS’ REQUEST FOR
CONTINUANCE
On 2/6/24, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ ex parte
application to continue the summary judgment hearing because Plaintiffs failed
to show good cause for such relief. Plaintiffs failed to demonstrate what facts
essential to opposing summary judgment may exist but could not be presented to
warrant a continuance of the motion hearing. The trial schedule of Plaintiffs’
counsel does not constitute good cause to continue the hearing. Further, the
documents filed by Defendant Emrek on 12/8/23 were not a motion, but instead a
joinder in the prior motion for summary judgment. The Court’s ruling on the ex
parte leaves the 2/5/24 opposition deadline intact. 
ANALYSIS
The Court determines that Defendants’ separate
statements of undisputed facts, which reference Defendants’ evidence, suffice
to establish that one or more elements of each of Plaintiffs’ claims fail as a
matter of law. Specifically, the undisputed facts show that each of the claims
have no merit for the following reasons: (1) the absence of fraudulent alterations
of the subject promissory note and deed of trust; (2) inapplicability of  Regulation Z of the TILA statute due to Defendants
being a small servicer of fewer than 5000 loans per year (12 CFR § 1026.41(e)(4)),
(3) Plaintiffs’ failure to tender the debt in relation to the deed of trust, (4)
the instant case being barred by collateral estoppel and res judicata given a
ruling in Plaintiffs’ prior District Court action, (5) the absence of any
foreclosure and, (6) the bar of the Statute of Limitations and laches as to
alleged misrepresentations occurring in 2005 and Plaintiffs’ alleged knowledge
by 2008. (Def. Block’s Sep. Stmt. Nos. 1-85; Def Emrek’s Sep Stmt. Nos. 1-86.)
The burden thus shifts to Plaintiffs, but Plaintiffs
filed no opposition to raise any triable issue of material fact as to the
raised issues. 
CONCLUSION
The unopposed motion and joinder are granted, considering
the shifting of the burden of proof to the Plaintiffs who have not opposed the
motion.
 