 Case Number:  21STCV37024    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  October 7, 2021, Plaintiff Victoria Valles (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for  general negligence, negligence per se, premises liability, and negligent  infliction of emotional distress.  On  June 6, 2022, Defendant filed an answer.  On  December 8, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication.  The  motion was set for hearing on September 12, 2024.  On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition.  On September 5, 2024,  Defendant filed a reply.  Trial  is currently set for November 1, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must  file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of  the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating  whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.  The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material  facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact  contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference  to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable  separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion  constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending  party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  B.   Negligence and premises liability  “The  elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a  legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in  injury.”  (Kesner v. Superior Court  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)  C.   Negligence per se  Evidence  Code section 669 provides:  “(a) The failure of a person to exercise due care is  presumed if:  “(1) He violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation  of a public entity;  “(2) The violation proximately caused death or injury  to person or property;  “(3) The death or injury resulted from an occurrence  of the nature which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to  prevent; and  “(4) The person suffering the death or the injury to  his person or property was one of the class of persons for whose protection the  statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.  “(b) This presumption may be rebutted by proof that:  “(1) The person violating the statute, ordinance, or  regulation did what might reasonably be expected of a person of ordinary  prudence, acting under similar circumstances, who desired to comply with the  law; or  “(2) The person violating the statute, ordinance, or  regulation was a child and exercised the degree of care ordinarily exercised by  persons of his maturity, intelligence, and capacity under similar  circumstances, but the presumption may not be rebutted by such proof if the  violation occurred in the course of an activity normally engaged in only by  adults and requiring adult qualifications.”  (Evid. Code, § 669.)  D.   Negligent infliction of emotional distress  Plaintiff  appears to be asserting a “direct victim” negligent infliction of emotional  distress claim.  “ ‘ “Direct victim”  cases are cases in which the plaintiff’s claim of emotional distress is not  based upon witnessing an injury to someone else, but rather is based upon the  violation of a duty owed directly to the plaintiff. “[T]he label ‘direct  victim’ arose to distinguish cases in which damages for serious emotional  distress are sought as a result of a breach of duty owed the plaintiff that is  ‘assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or  that arises out of a relationship between the two.’ [Citation.] In these cases,  the limits [on bystander NIED cases ...] have no direct application. [Citations.]  Rather, well-settled principles of negligence are invoked to determine whether  all elements of a cause of action, including duty, are present in a given  case.” ’ ” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th  182, 205-206, quoting Wooden v. Raveling (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1035,  1038; see Lawson v. Management Activities, Inc. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th  652, 656 (Lawson) [“At the outset we must remind ourselves that, however  handy the acronym, as our Supreme Court has made abundantly clear, there is no  such thing as the independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional  distress”]; Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th  965, 984 [“[T]here is no independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional  distress.  [Citation.] The tort is  negligence, a cause of action in which a duty to the plaintiff is an essential  element”].)   DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS:  Overruled:  All  DISCUSSION          A.   Undisputed facts  On  the afternoon of October 8, 2019, Plaintiff visited the Starbucks Coffee store  located at 5201 E. Washington Boulevard in Commerce, California.  Plaintiff parked her vehicle near the front  doors of the Starbucks store.  As  Plaintiff approached and entered the Starbucks store, she saw a man with a dog  outside the store.  Plaintiff walked  inside the store with her mother.  Inside  the store, Plaintiff ordered drinks.   Plaintiff  exited the store and walked to her daughter-in-law’s vehicle to check on the  baby who was in the car.  Plaintiff was  outside the store for about five minutes.   While Plaintiff was waiting outside, a dog bit Plaintiff, causing  Plaintiff to fall and hit her head.  Plaintiff  asked the dog’s owner to help her.  The  dog’s owner pulled the dog off Plaintiff. After  the dog released Plaintiff, the man and his dog fled the parking lot without  assisting Plaintiff.  Plaintiff  has never learned the name of the dog or the dog’s owner.  B.   Defendant has not carried its initial summary judgment  burden  Defendant  asserts that it cannot be liable to Plaintiff on any of the theories pleaded in  Plaintiff’s complaint because Defendant did not own or control the area outside  its store where the dog bit Plaintiff.   According to  Defendant, “[p]er the terms of their lease, Starbucks does not have ownership  of the building and does not control any of the common areas in the shopping  center. The maintenance and upkeep of the common areas (e.g., parking areas,  sidewalks, landscaping, etc.) are explicitly the purview of the landlord, Arnel  Holdings, LLC.”  (Memorandum p. 8.)  To  support these assertions, Defendant cites its undisputed facts 3, 8, 9, and  15.  But none of Plaintiff's undisputed facts – and none of  the evidence cited to support them – address whether Defendant owned,  controlled, or possessed the area outside its store where the dog bit  Plaintiff.  Indeed, the only evidence  which Defendant submits to support its motion is Plaintiff’s complaint and excerpts  from Plaintiff’s deposition.  Neither the complaint nor the deposition excerpts contain evidence that Defendant does not own, control, or possess the area where the dog bit Plaintiff.  Defendant has not carried its initial summary judgment  burden.  The Court denies the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s motion for summary judgment or, in  the alternative, summary adjudication.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.