..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
--- 

Case Number: 24VECV01955
Plaintiff's Name: Claudia B. Cruz, Alejandro Cruz
Defendant's Name: Hyundai Motor America, Autonation Hyundai Carlsbad dba HYG Country Drive Imports, Inc., Does 1-10
People-Names: None
Company-Names: Hyundai Motor America, Autonation Hyundai Carlsbad dba HYG Country Drive Imports, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: September 25, 2019, October 3, 2024
Events: Purchase of a vehicle, filing of a complaint, motion to compel arbitration
Money: $5,000 (arbitration fee)
Intentions: To determine whether the arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable
Facts: The plaintiffs purchased a vehicle from a dealership and executed a retail installment sales contract (RISC) that contains an arbitration provision. The defendants have moved to compel arbitration of the plaintiffs' claims.
Disputes: The parties dispute whether the arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable.
Acts: The plaintiffs have filed a complaint against the defendants alleging various causes of action, including violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
Agreements: The RISC contains an arbitration provision that requires disputes arising from the sale of the vehicle to be resolved through arbitration.
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, Federal Arbitration Act
Case Citations: Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc., Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co., Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc., Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California, AT&T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers of America, Felisilda v. FCA US LLC, Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company, Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co., Kielar v. Superior Court, Yeh v. Superior Court, Davis v. Nissan North America, Inc.
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, California Civil Code section 1670.5
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements: The court finds that the arbitration agreement is not valid and enforceable because it does not provide for the election of an arbitrator and it improperly shifts fees and costs of arbitration onto the plaintiffs.
```

And here is the summary in English text:

This is a tentative ruling on a motion to compel arbitration in a case involving a dispute over a vehicle purchase. The plaintiffs purchased a vehicle from a dealership and executed a retail installment sales contract (RISC) that contains an arbitration provision. The defendants have moved to compel arbitration of the plaintiffs' claims, but the court has denied the motion.

The court found that the arbitration agreement is not valid and enforceable because it does not provide for the election of an arbitrator and it improperly shifts fees and costs of arbitration onto the plaintiffs. The court also found that the agreement does not provide for a meaningful choice of arbitrator and that the fee provisions are not reasonable. The court concluded that the arbitration agreement is not enforceable and that the case should proceed to trial.
