  Case Number:  24VECV01955    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Claudia
  B. Cruz and Alejandro Cruz,       
Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
Hyundai
  Motor America, et al.
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
24VECV01955         107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
MOTION
  TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
 
 
 



 
 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration of the claims brought by Plaintiffs Claudia
B. Cruz and Alejandro Cruz (“Plaintiffs”). 
This court denies the motion.
 
I. JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant requests the court take
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint. The court need not take judicial
notice of a complaint that is part of the case file. 
Thus, Defendant’s request for
judicial notice is denied.
II. BACKGROUND
On September 25, 2019, Plaintiffs
acquired a 2019 Hyundai Santa Fe (the “Vehicle”) from a dealership, Keyes
Hyundai. (Complaint ¶ 7; Ex. 2.) Later, the Vehicle developed various “defects,
malfunctions and nonconformities.” (Complaint ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs took the
Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facilities, but Defendant failed to
repair or replace the Vehicle, or make restitution to Plaintiffs. (Complaint ¶¶
14-15.) 
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a complaint against Defendants Hyundai Motor America, Autonation Hyundai
Carlsbad dba HYG Country Drive Imports, Inc. and Does 1 through 10, alleging
causes of action for Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Breach
of Express Warranty, Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Breach
of Implied Warranty, Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, and
Negligent Repair.
 
On June 4, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 27, 2024.
Defendant filed a reply on September 25, 2024.
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) “[T]he
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio
v. WMA Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) The court is
empowered by California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel
parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.)
   
“California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general
rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance
that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) Notwithstanding that strong policy, the United
States Supreme Court has held, “[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a
party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not
agreed so to submit.” (AT & T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications
Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648.)
 
The hearing and determination of a petition to compel
arbitration “in the manner and upon the notice provided by law for the making
and hearing of motions” generally means that “the facts are to be proven by
affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken
only in the court's discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno
(2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1157.)
 

Existence
     of an Arbitration Agreement

 
The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp., supra,
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff must
arbitrate their dispute because the retail installment sales contract (“RISC”)
contains an arbitration provision. (Motion p. 3.) 
 
On September 25, 2019, Plaintiffs
purchased the Vehicle from Keyes Hyundai. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs’
transaction was subject to the RISC, executed by Plaintiff and Keyes Hyundai.
(Ex. 2; Ameripour Declaration ¶ 4.) The RISC contains an arbitration provision,
which states, in pertinent part:
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors, or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of
this vehicle, this contract, or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding
arbitration and not by court action. (Ex. 2 p. 5.)
 
This provision indicates that
disputes arising from Plaintiffs’ purchase or condition of the Vehicle are
covered by the RISC’s arbitration provision. However, Keyes Hyundai is not a
defendant in this case and Defendant was not a party to the RISC. Accordingly,
the court must determine whether Defendant may compel Plaintiff to submit to
arbitration.
 

Non-Signatory

 
“As a general rule, only a party to an arbitration
agreement may enforce the agreement.” (Felisilda v. FCA USA LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495.) “However, there are several exceptions that allow a
nonsignatory to invoke an agreement to arbitration.” (Id.) 
 
                
i.         
Equitable Estoppel
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs are equitably estopped
from refusing to arbitrate their claims. (Motion pp. 6-7.)
 
“Under the doctrine of equitable estoppel, ‘as applied
in both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant
may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate
its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately
founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.’” (Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486) “By relying on contract terms in a
claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff
may be equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in
that agreement.” (Id. at p. 496) “Where the equitable estoppel doctrine
applies, the nonsignatory has a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” (Id.)
To determine whether plaintiffs’ claims are founded on or intimately connected
with the sales contract, the court examines the “facts of the operative
complaint.” (Id.)
 
The parties here dispute which cases this court should
follow. Plaintiffs argue this court should follow Ford Motor Warranty Cases v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, review
granted Sept. 4, 2024, S279969 (“Ochoa”) and Montemayor v.
Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 973, review granted Sept. 30,
2023, S279969.  Defendant argues that
because the Ochoa line of cases are under review by the California
Supreme Court, “Plaintiffs reliance on these cases is improper” and this court
should follow Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486. 
 
“Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court’s
opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court . . . a published
opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential
effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.1115(e)(1).  In granting review
of Ochoa, the Supreme Court’s order noted that “Pending review, the
opinion of the Court of Appeal, which is currently published at 89 Cal.App.5th
1324, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611, may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but
also for the limited purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in
authority that would in turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto
Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 . . . to
choose between sides of any such conflict.” 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(e)(3).) 
 
In Felisilda, the plaintiffs purchased a
vehicle and later filed a complaint against the dealership and manufacturer. (Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 489.) The plaintiffs had signed
a retail installment sales agreement that included an arbitration provision. (Id.)
The dealership filed a motion to compel arbitration and the superior court
ordered plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims against the dealership and
manufacturer. (Id.) Plaintiffs dismissed the dealership and later
appealed, arguing the superior court erred by ordering plaintiffs to arbitrate
their claim against the manufacturer because the manufacturer was a
nonsignatory to the sales contract. (Id.) On appeal, the Third District
of the California Court of Appeal upheld the order submitting the matter to
arbitration. (Id.) The court noted that “a nonsignatory defendant may
invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its
claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately
founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Id. at
p. 495.) The arbitration agreement provision stated that “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise ... between you and us ... which arises out of or relates to ... [the] condition of this vehicle ...
shall ... be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.” (Id. at p. 496.) The court then held that the plaintiffs’
claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act “directly relates to the
condition of the vehicle that they allege to have violated warranties they
received as a consequence of the sales contract” and “[b]ecause the
[Plaintiffs] agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they
are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim.” (Id. at p. 497) 
 
In Ochoa,
the plaintiffs purchased vehicles from a dealership. (See Ochoa v. Ford
Motor Company, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1329.) The plaintiffs signed
retail installment sale contracts with the dealership that stated:
 
EITHER YOU OR
WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN
COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. [and] [a]ny claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claims or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase, or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who did not sign this
contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding
arbitration and not by a court action.” (Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at 1330.)
 
The
manufacturer was not a party to the contracts. (Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1329.) The plaintiffs filed complaints against the
manufacturer alleging various causes of action including violations of implied
warranties under the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (Id. at p.
1330.) The court disagreed with Felisilda and held that equitable
estoppel does not apply when the “manufacturer vehicle warranties that
accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the sale
contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale
contract.” (Id. at p. 1334.) The court noted that the sales contracts
contained “no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the
vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in the event
problems arise. To the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty
on the part of the dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties
covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.’ In short, the
substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to sale and financing and
nothing more.” (Id. at p. 1335) The court stated that
“California law does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four
corners of a retail sale contract as part of the sale contract” and concluded
that equitable estoppel did not apply because “Plaintiffs’ claims in no way
rely on the sale contracts.” (Id.) 
 
Similarly, in Montemayor,
the plaintiffs purchased a vehicle from a dealership and executed a retail installment
sales contract. (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co., supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at
p. 962.) Later. Plaintiffs filed a complaint alleging six causes of action
against the manufacturer and one cause of action against the manufacturer and
dealership. (Id. at pp. 962-963.) 
The manufacturer and dealership jointly filed a motion to compel
arbitration. (Id. at p. 964.) The plaintiffs later dismissed the
dealership. (Id. at p. 965.) On appeal, the court noted that “the fact
the [plaintiffs] purchased the defective vehicle from [the dealership] pursuant
to the sales contract, and as a result of their purchase they received separate
express warranties from [the manufacturer], does not mean their causes of
action against [the manufacturer] based on those express warranties are founded
in the sales contract.” (Id. at p. 971.) The court disagreed with Felisilda
that language referencing third parties “provides a basis for nonsignatory
manufacturers to compel arbitration of claims brought by vehicle purchasers”
because the language referencing third parties “refers to the subject matter of
covered claims, not the scope of who may enforce the arbitration provision.” (Id.)
Finally, the court noted that although the plaintiffs in Ochoa only sued
the dealership, the plaintiffs in Montemayor sued the dealership and
manufacturer. (Id. at p. 972.) But the court stated that “whether
vehicle purchasers file suit against only the manufacturer, or the manufacturer
and the car dealer, does not affect the analysis of whether a cause of action
against the manufacturer may be compelled to arbitration.” (Id.) 
 
Recent
decisions from the First, Third, and Fourth District Courts of Appeal agree
with Ochoa and reject Felisilda’s holding that equitable estoppel
applies to enable a non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration
provision in a vehicle sale contract.¿ See Kielar v. Superior Court (2023)
94 Cal.App.5th 614, 619-620, review granted Oct 25, 2023, S279969; Yeh v.
Superior Court (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264, 272, review granted Nov. 15,
2023, S279969; Davis v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2024) 100
Cal.App.5th 825, 837, review granted May 29, 2024, S279969.
 
Because
the majority of recent decisions from the Courts of Appeal have declined to
follow Felisilda and instead adopted Ochoa, this court will
follow the Ochoa reasoning. 
 
As
applied here, the arbitration provision in the RISC is identical to the
arbitration provision in Ochoa. (Ex. 2 p. 5) (See Ochoa v. Ford Motor
Company, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1329.) Further, like the sales
contracts in Ochoa the RISC here stated that “the Seller makes no
warranties, express or implied, on the vehicle, and there will be no implied
warranties of merchantability or of fitness for a particular purpose. This
provision does not affect any warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle
manufacturer may provide.” (Ex. 2 p. 4.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ causes of
action do not rely on the RISC.
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiffs are equitably estopped from refusing to compel arbitration
because “there would be no claims under Song-Beverly but for the existence of
the sale transaction which was created by and through the RISC.” (Motion p.
10.) But the court in Montemayor rejected the “but for” argument stating
that, “[t]o be sure, the [Plaintiffs] would not have sued [Defendant] for the
defective condition of the vehicle but for the sale of the vehicle . . .
pursuant to the sales contract . . . [b]ut that does not mean [Defendant’s]
obligation to provide a non-defective vehicle under its separate express
warranty is in any way founded on an obligation imposed by the sales contract
or intertwined with those obligations.” (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.,
supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 970.) Similarly, this court rejects Defendant’s
argument.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs are not estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claims against
Defendant.
 
              
ii.         
Third-Party Beneficiary
 
Defendant further argues it can
enforce the arbitration provision in the RISC as a third-party beneficiary.
(Motion p. 5.) 
 
The
elements necessary to establish a third-party beneficiary relationship are (1)
the third party “is likely to benefit from the contract;” (2) “a motivating
purpose of the contracting parties [was] to provide a benefit to the third
party;” and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the contract is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties.¿ (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th
817, 830.)¿ “Whether the third party is an intended beneficiary or merely an
incidental beneficiary involves construction of the intention of the parties,
gathered from reading the contract as a whole in light of the circumstances
under which it was entered.”¿ (Cione v. Foresters Equity Servs. (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 625, 636, citation omitted.)
 
Here,
the RISC shows that Defendant stood to benefit from the RISC because it would
receive indirect profits from the dealership’s sale of the vehicle. 
 
But
the RISC does not show that the parties had a motivating purpose to directly
benefit Defendant. The RISC’s arbitration provision is limited to Plaintiffs
and Keyes Hyundai and
its “employees, agents, successors, or assigns.” (Ex. 2 p. 5.) Defendant argues
that the arbitration provision’s reference to any “relationship with third
parties who do not sign this contract” should be interpreted to include
Defendant because Plaintiffs’ claims “arise out of and relate to the condition
of the Vehicle and the ‘resulting’ warranty relationship that arose out of the
execution of the RISC.” (Motion p. 9.) But, like Montemayor, where the
court concluded the manufacturer was not a third-party beneficiary to the sales
contract, the RISC here does not reference Defendant and nothing in the
contract indicates Defendant had an interest in the RISC. (See Montemayor v.
Ford Motor Co., supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 973.)
 
Further, permitting Defendant to enforce the contract is not
consistent with the contract’s objectives and the contracting parties’
reasonable expectations. The RISC shows that the Plaintiff and Keyes Hyundai
intended to purchase and sell a vehicle and resolve disputes between Plaintiff,
Keyes Hyundai, and Keyes Hyundai’s “employees, agents, successors, or assigns.”
(Ex. 2. p. 5.) (See Ochoa v. Ford Motor Co., supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324,
1338-1339 (finding “no indication that a benefit to [Defendant] was the
signatories’ ‘motivating purpose’ [citation] in contracting for the sale and
purchase of a . . . vehicle” because “[t]he manifest intent of the parties was
to buy, sell and finance a car, and to allow either the purchaser or the dealer
to compel arbitration of the specified categories of disputes between them, or
between the purchaser and any of the dealer’s ‘employees, agents, successors,
or assigns.’”) The agreement here does not reference Defendant, and nothing
suggests permitting Defendant to enforce the contract is consistent with
Plaintiffs’ or Keyes Hyundai’s objectives and their reasonable expectations
when signing the RISC.
 
Accordingly,
this court will not enforce the arbitration agreement under the third-party
beneficiary theory.
 
Because there is no
agreement to arbitrate, the court need not consider the parties’
unconscionability arguments. However, even if the court considered those
arguments, the court finds that although
the purported arbitration agreement contains a small degree of procedural
unconscionability, it is not substantively unconscionable. That analysis is set
forth below. 
 
 

Unconscionability

 
The doctrine of unconscionability
applies to arbitration agreements. (Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Civil Code section 1670.5, subdivision
(a) provides, “If the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any
clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the
court may refuse to enforce the contract.” 
 
“Unconscionability has both a
‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element, the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or
‘one-sided’ results. The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive
unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the same degree.
The more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Peng v. First Republic Bank, supra,
219 Cal.App.4th at p. 1469, internal citations omitted, emphasis original.)
“Ordinary contracts of adhesion, although they are indispensable
facts of modern life that are generally enforced, contain a degree of
procedural unconscionability.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016)
62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.)
 
i.       Procedural Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it was presented on a “take it or leave it
basis.” (Opposition p. 3.)
 
“A procedural
unconscionability analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into whether the contract is
one of adhesion.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
116.) “An adhesive contract is standardized, generally on a preprinted form,
and offered by the party with superior bargaining power ‘on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis.” (Id.) Procedural unconscionability also
“focus[es] on oppression and surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Swain
v. LaserAway Medical Group, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 59, 69.) “[O]pression
occurs where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice,
surprise where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a
prolix printed form.” (Id.) 
 
Here, the agreement was
part of a standardized, pre-printed form that Plaintiffs accepted while
purchasing the Vehicle. (Ex. 2.) Accordingly,
the agreement is an adhesion contract. Further, it appears that the dealership
had superior bargaining power because, without signing the RISC, Plaintiff
would not have been able to purchase the Vehicle. However, the arbitration
agreement is within a five-page documents, and it is relatively short and
written in plain language. (Ex. 2 p. 5.) 
 
Accordingly, the RISC arbitration
agreement contains a small degree of procedural unconscionability.
 
ii.     Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues the RISC’s
arbitration agreement are substantively unconscionable because: (1) it deprives
Plaintiffs the choice of arbitrator; (2) it improperly shifts fees and costs of
arbitration onto Plaintiffs; and (3) it deprives Plaintiffs the right to a jury
trial. (Opposition p. 4.) 
 
“Substantive unconscionability examines
the fairness of a contract’s terms.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, supra, 8
Cal.5th at p. 129.)  “This may include
fine-print terms, unreasonably or unexpectedly harsh terms regarding price or
other central aspects of the transaction, and terms that undermine the
nondrafting party’s reasonable expectations.” (Id.)  
 
The arbitration agreement states that “[a]rbitrators
shall be attorneys or retired judges and shall be selected pursuant to the
applicable rules.” (Ex. 2 p. 5.) Plaintiffs argue this is unconscionable
because it “deprives Plaintiffs the choice of arbitrator” but Plaintiffs do not
explain how this provision makes the arbitration agreement substantively
unconscionable. (Opposition p. 4.)
 
The arbitration agreement also states that Defendant
“shall pay [Plaintiffs’] filing, administration, service or case management fee
and [Plaintiffs’] arbitrator or hearing fee all up to a maximum of $5000,
unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization require
[Defendant] to pay more. The amount [Defendant] pay[s] will be reimbursed in
whole or part by decision of the arbitrator if the arbitrator finds that any of
[Plaintiffs’] claims [are] frivolous under applicable law.” (Ex. 2 p. 5.)  In Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 908, the arbitration provision stated “We will advance
your filing, administration, service or case management fee all up to a maximum
of $2500, which may be reimbursed by decision of the arbitrator at the
arbitrator’s discretion,” [e]ach party shall be responsible for its own
attorney, expert and other fees, unless awarded by the arbitrator under
applicable law” and “[t]he appealing part requesting new arbitration shall be
responsible for the filing fee and other arbitration costs subject to a final
determination by the arbitrators of a fair apportionment of costs.”  The Court concluded the arbitration agreement
was not unconscionable.  (Id. at
p. 921.) Here, Defendants have agreed to pay fees up to $5,000, unless the
arbitrator finds Plaintiffs’ claims are frivolous.  Accordingly, this court finds that the fee
provisions here are less unconscionable than the provisions in Sanchez.
 
Finally, Plaintiffs’ argument that the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable because it deprives Plaintiffs’ of a right to a
jury trial is meritless because “arbitration involves a waiver of the right to
a jury trial.” (Prima Donna Development Corp. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019)
42 Cal.App.5th 174, 186.) 
 
Accordingly, although the arbitration agreement
contains a small degree of procedural unconscionability, it is not
substantively unconscionable. 
 

Conclusion

 
Accordingly, this court DENIES
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
 
Further, this court DENIES
Defendant’s motion to stay the matter until the California Supreme Court issues
its rulings on the Ford Motor Warranty Cases. (Reply p. 9.)
 
 
Dated:             October
3, 2024                                              _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court


