 Case Number:  24VECV02167    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Nvard Oganesyan and Satenik
  Kazaryan 
 
Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
FCA US LLC, et al.
         
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
24VECV02167 
        107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 
(1) Deem RFAs Admitted; (2) Compel Responses to
  Interrogatories; (3) Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 



 
[TENTATIVE]
(1) Grant Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted, award monetary sanctions
in the lesser amount of $1,785.00; 
(2) Grant Motion to
Compel Responses to Interrogatories, award monetary 
sanctions in the lesser
amount of $1,210.00; 
(3) Grant Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, 
award monetary sanctions in the lesser amount of $1,210.00.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On or
about August 27, 2021, Plaintiffs Nvard Oganesyan and Satenik Kazaryan
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) leased a 2021 Jeep Wrangler (the “Vehicle”).
(Complaint ¶¶
8-9.) In connection with the lease, Plaintiffs received written warranties and
other express and implied warranties. (Complaint ¶ 11.) The Vehicle developed
several defects. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs took the Vehicle to the
Manufacturer’s repair facilities, but the defects continued to exist.
(Complaint ¶¶ 15-16.) 
 
On May 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants alleging four causes of action
under the Song-Beverly Warranty Act.
 

Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted

 
On June 24, 2024,
Plaintiff Nvard Oganesyan (“Plaintiff”) served her first set of Requests for
Admission on Defendant FCA US LLC (“Defendant”). (Markarian Declaration, RFAs ¶
3.) Defendant’s responses were due July 26, 2024. (Markarian Declaration, RFAs
¶ 4.) Defendant did not respond. (Markarian Declaration, RFAs ¶ 5.) On August
2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel and offered Defendant
additional time to provide responses. (Markarian Declaration, RFAs ¶ 6; Ex. B.)
Defendant did not respond. (Markarian Declaration, RFAs ¶ 7.) 
 
On August 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion to deem RFAs admitted. No opposition has been filed.
 

Motion to Compel Responses to
     Interrogatories

 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff served
her first set of Form Interrogatories – General and Special Interrogatories on
Defendant. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶¶
4-5.) Defendant did not respond. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 5.)
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel and offered
Defendant additional time to provide responses. (Markarian Declaration,
Interrogatories ¶ 5; Ex. C.) Defendant did not
respond. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories, ¶¶ 6-7.) 
 
On August 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion for order compelling response to interrogatories.  No opposition has been filed.
 

Motion to Compel Responses to
     Request for Production of Documents

 
On June 24, 2024,
Plaintiff served her first set of Request for Production of Documents on
Defendant. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 3.) Defendant’s responses were
due by July 26, 2024. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 4.) Defendant did
not respond. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 5.) On August 2, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel and offered Defendant
additional time to provide responses. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 6.)
Defendant did not respond. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 7.) 
 
On August 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion for order compelling response to request for
production of documents. No opposition has been filed.
 
II.            
DISCUSSION
 
a.    
Meet
and Confer
 
There is no requirement parties meet and confer before bringing a
deemed admitted motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280. (St.
Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 777.) Further, “[u]nlike a¿motion¿to¿compel¿further¿responses,
a¿motion¿to¿compel¿responses is not subject to a 45–day time limit, and the
propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it
satisfied a ‘meet¿and¿confer’ requirement.” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.)
 
Because no response has been provided to the
instant discovery requests and Plaintiff files motions to compel, not motions
to compel further, there is no requirement for the parties to have met and
conferred prior to the filing of the motions.¿ Regardless, Plaintiff submitted
a declaration by Plaintiff’s counsel showing counsel emailed Defendant and
offered Defendant additional time to file responses before filing these
motions. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 6; Markarian Declaration, RFAs ¶ 6;
Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 5.)
b.    
Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted
 
i.      
Deem
Admitted¿ 
 
Plaintiff argues the court should
grant the motion because “Defendant has to date not provided any responses to
requests for production.” (Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted p. 3.)
 
When a party fails to timely
respond to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(b).)  The
party who failed to respond waives any objections to the requests, unless the
court grants them relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has
subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the
party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(a)(1)-(2).)¿  
 
The court shall grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280(c).)¿
 
Here, Plaintiff served RFAs, Set
One, on Defendant on June 24, 2024. (Markarian Declaration ¶ 3; Ex. A.) Defendant’s responses were due by July 26,
2024, but Defendant did not respond to Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set One. (Markarian
Declaration ¶¶ 4-5.) On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s
counsel and offered Defendant until August 9, 2024, to provide responses.
(Markarian Declaration ¶ 6; Ex. B.) Defendant did not respond. (Markarian
Declaration ¶ 7.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff is
entitled to an order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set One, admitted.
             
ii.              
Monetary
Sanctions
 
Where a party fails to provide a
timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280(c).)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks $6,097.50 in
monetary sanctions. (Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted at p. 6; Markarian
Declaration ¶ 8.) This includes four and a half hours
preparing the motion and its supporting documents, two hours reviewing the
opposition, two hours preparing the reply, and two hours commuting to and from
attending the hearing, and the $60.00 motion filing fee. (Markarian Declaration
¶ 8.) 
  
The court finds Plaintiff’s failure
to respond to Defendants’ discovery requests a misuse of the discovery
process.  The court is also required to impose a monetary sanction on
Plaintiff for failure to respond to the Requests for Admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c).¿ However, the amount sought
is excessive given the simplicity of this Motion and the lack of opposition and
reply. Thus, the Court finds a reduction of time spent preparing the motion is
warranted and reduces the four and a half hours preparing the motion to two
hours. The court also finds the time spent reviewing Defendant’s opposition
brief and preparing Plaintiff’s reply is not warranted because Defendant filed
no opposition and Plaintiff filed no reply. The court also finds two hours
commuting to and from attending the hearing is excessive.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions against Defendant is granted in the reduced total amount
of $1,785.00, reflecting the $60 filing fee, two hours for preparing the
motion, and one hour for the hearing at $575.00 per hour.
 
c.     
Motion
to Compel Responses to Interrogatories
 
i.      
Failure to Respond 
 
Plaintiff argues the
court should grant is motion because “Defendant has to date not provided any
responses to interrogatories.” (Motion for Order Compelling Response to
Interrogatories p. 3.) 
 
“If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response . . . [that
party] waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.290.) “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an
order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.290(b).) “The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on
its determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. [and] (2) The party’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.290(a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff served
Form Interrogatories – General and Special Interrogatories on Defendant on June
24, 2024. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendant did not
respond. (Markarian declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 5.) On August 2, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel and offered Defendant until
August 9, 2024, to respond. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 5; Ex.
C.) Defendant has provided no response to the interrogatories. (Markarian
Declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 6.)
 
Accordingly, the court
grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses.
 
ii.              
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose
a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).)
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
$6,097.50 in monetary sanctions. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 8;
Motion for Oder Compelling Response to Interrogatories pp. 5-6.) This includes
four and a half hours preparing the motion and its supporting documents, two
hours reviewing the opposition, two hours preparing the reply, two hours to
commute to and from and to attend the hearing, and the $60.00 motion filing
fee. (Markarian Declaration, Interrogatories ¶ 8.)
 
The court finds Defendant
did not act with substantial justification and no other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust.  The
court also finds Defendant’s failure to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery
requests a misuse of the discovery process.  The court also finds a
reduction of time spent preparing the motion is warranted and reduces the four
and a half hours requested to two hours. The court also finds the time spent
reviewing Defendant’s opposition brief and preparing Plaintiff’s reply is not
warranted because Defendant filed no opposition and Plaintiff filed no reply.
Also, this motion will be heard at the same hearing as Plaintiff’s Motion to
Deem RFAs Admitted, so the court finds that granting Plaintiff attorney’s fees
for time spent commuting to and from the hearing and attending the hearing
would be duplicative. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanction is granted in the reduced about of $1,210.00, reflecting
the $60.00 filing fee and two hours for preparing the motion at $575.00 per
hour.
 
d.    
Motion
to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents 
 
i.      
Failure
to Respond
 
Plaintiff argues the court should
grant the motion because “Defendant has to date not provided any responses to
requests for production.” (Motion for Order Compelling Response to Request for
Production of Documents p. 3.)
 
“I]f a party to
whom¿a¿demand¿for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling¿is directed fails
to serve a timely response to it,… [t]he party to whom the¿demand¿for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling¿is directed waives any objection to
the demand [and]…[t]he party making the demand may move for an order compelling
response to the¿demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2031.300.) “The court, on motion,
may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that . . . (1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280. [and] (2) The
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff served Defendant
with her first set of Request for Production of Documents on June 24, 2024.
(Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 3.) Defendant’s
responses were due July 26, 2024, but Defendant did not respond. (Markarian
Declaration, Production ¶¶ 4-5.) On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed
Defendant’s counsel and offered Defendant until August 9, 2024, to respond.
(Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 6; Ex. B.) Defendant has provided no
response to Plaintiff’s request. (Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 7.)
 
Accordingly, the court grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses.
 
A.   
Sanctions
 
“[T]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).)
 
Plaintiff seeks $6,097.50 in
monetary sanctions. (Motion for Order Compelling Response to Request for
Production of Documents pp. 5-6; Markarian Declaration, Production ¶ 8.) This includes four and a half hours working on
preparing the motion and its supporting documents, two hours reviewing the
opposition, two hours preparing the reply, two hours to commute to and from
attending the hearing, and the $60.00 motion filing fee. (Markarian
Declaration, Production ¶ 8.) 
 
The court finds
Defendant did not act with substantial justification and no other circumstances
make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  The court also finds Defendant’s failure to respond to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests a misuse of the discovery process.  The
court also finds a reduction of time spent preparing the motion is warranted
and reduces the four and a half hours requested to two hours. The court also
finds the time spent reviewing Defendant’s opposition brief and preparing
Plaintiff’s reply is not warranted because Defendant filed no opposition and
Plaintiff filed no reply. Also, this motion will be heard at the same hearing
as Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted, so the court finds that granting
Plaintiff attorney’s fees for time spent commuting to and from the hearing and
attending the hearing would be duplicative. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanction is granted in the reduced about of $1,210.00, reflecting
the $60.00 filing fee and two hours for preparing the motion at $575.00 per
hour.
 
III.          
CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted as to Defendant is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
as to Defendant is also granted in the amount of $4,205.00 to be paid by
Defendant’s counsel to Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of notice of
this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated:             October
3, 2024                                              _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court