 Case Number:  23SMCV00616    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Fellows et al. v.
Pilgrim Media Group LLC, Case No. 23SMCV00616
Hearing Date
February 14, 2024
Plaintiffs’ Motion
for an Order Clarifying that no Stay is in Effect 
 
Plaintiffs’
decedent died while participating a reality tv series about street racing.
Plaintiffs allege defendant producers were negligent, causing the accident and
death. On December 7, 2023 the court denied defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration, finding defendants waived their right to arbitrate due to unreasonable
delay and substantial invocation of the litigation machinery. Defendants
appealed, filing a notice of automatic stay pending appeal on December 11,
2023. 
 
Plaintiffs move
for an order seeking to clarify that, pursuant to new legislation, no stay is
in effect. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §1294, which effect January 1, 2024, states perfecting
an appeal from an order denying a motion to compel arbitration “shall not stay
any proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of the appeal.” 
 
Though denial of
defendants’ motion and the filing of the appeal took place before §1294 took
effect, plaintiffs argue the statute applies under Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn’s LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 231-233, and the
stay should be lifted.
 
There is a strong
legal presumption that new statutes are not retroactive absent strong textual
evidence to the contrary. Evangelatos v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d
1188. This presumption exists to protect “the right to have liability-creating
conduct evaluated under the liability rules in effect at the time the conduct
occurred.” Californians, supra, 39 Cal. 4th at 233. 
 
When new law is
applied to a pending case, application is impermissibly retroactive if “it
would improperly have changed the legal consequences of past conduct by
imposing new or different liabilities based on such conduct.” Id. at 231. 
 
A statute that
does not impose new liability for past conduct or substantially affect existing
rights and obligations, but instead establishes new rules for the conduct of litigation
going forward, can be applied to existing cases without violating the
presumption against retroactivity because “the effect of such statutes is
actually prospective in nature since they relate to the procedure to be
followed in the future.” Id.
 
There is no
language regarding retroactivity in §1294 or evidence suggesting its drafters
intended it to apply retroactively. Plaintiffs acknowledge this but argue that applying
the statute and lifting the stay would not be improperly retroactive. They cite
Californians, arguing §1294 does not impose new liability for past
conduct or affect either party’s substantive rights, but sets forth new
procedural rules for conduct of the litigation moving forward. 
 
Defendants argue
applying §1294 would be impermissibly retroactive, citing Dillon v. Superior
Court (1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 437, 438. That court held a statute changing a
trial court’s subject matter jurisdiction cannot be applied to pending
litigation, concluding “in cases of statutory change of jurisdiction, in the
absence of a clearly expressed intention to the contrary, every statute will be
held to operate prospectively rather than retrospectively.” Id. at 439.
 
Defendants argue
applying §1294 would restore jurisdiction to the court, which lost jurisdiction
after the appeal was filed. They argue this violates Dillon’s rule
against retroactivity “in cases of statutory change of jurisdiction.”
 
Californians does not cite Dillon,
but implicitly rejects its holding regarding statutory changes in jurisdiction.
Californians defined retroactivity, setting forth two categories of legislation
that cannot be applied to pending litigation: statutes that either (1) impose new
consequences for past conduct or (2) substantially affect existing rights. Californians,
contra Dillon, did not state statutes affecting a change in jurisdiction
cannot be applied to pending litigation. 
 
As Californians
is a recent Supreme Court case, this court will apply its standard for retroactive
application. A statute changing jurisdiction can be applied to a pending case
as long as it does not alter the legal consequences of prior conduct or deprive
a party of a substantive right that existed before the statute was passed. Additionally,
Dillon is not analogous. The statute at issue there stripped
jurisdiction from the court hearing the pending case. Section1294 does not
strip this court of jurisdiction. Dillon does not apply.
 
Section 1294 does
not impose new liability for past conduct; it is procedural. The elements
plaintiffs must prove, the damages available and defenses all remain the same. Section
1294 does not affect the potential legal consequences of the conduct underlying
this case. 
 
Finally, although
defendants argue otherwise, §1294 does not deprive them of their substantive
right to attempt to pursue arbitration. Defendants may continue to pursue all
appellate rights, and the issues they must establish on appeal have not been
altered. All that has changed is the procedure the trial court will follow
while that appeal is pending. The discovery stay is no longer in place due to
the statute, and the court declines to impose a discretionary stay, as doing so
would foil the purpose of §1294. GRANTED.