 Case Number:  22STCV38433    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AWILDA PEREZ,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
  TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al., 
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38433 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING
  DISCOVERY
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
November 5, 2024 



 
 
MOVING PARTY:            Defendant
City of Montebello
RESPONDING PARTY:    Plaintiff Awilda
Perez
                   
I.         BACKGROUND
On
December 9, 2022, Plaintiff Awilda Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action.
On
August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants City of Montebello (the “City”) and Does 1 to 5, inclusive,
asserting one cause of action for general negligence.
The
FAC alleges that on or about August 30, 2022, Plaintiff was a passenger in a
City bus when the driver failed to pull safely to a bus stop, causing Plaintiff
to fall and sustain severe bodily injuries. (FAC, Attachment A, ¶¶ 7-12.)  
On
October 10, 2024, the City filed the instant “Motion For Protective Order
Regarding Discovery.”
          On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
opposition.
          On October 25, 2024, the City filed
its reply. 
          A non-jury trial is set for September
2, 2025. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
“When interrogatories have been
propounded, the responding party, and any other party or affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (a).) “
          Similarly, “[w]hen
an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents … has been demanded,
the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected
person, may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,
subd. (a).) 
“If the motion for a protective order
is denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the party to whom the [discovery]
was directed provide or permit the discovery against which protection was
sought on terms and conditions that are just.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090,
subd. (c); 2031.060, subd. (g).)
III.      MEET AND CONFER
A motion for a protective order must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section
2016.040 (“Section 2016.040”). (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, subd. (a);
2031.060, subd. (a).)
Section 2016.040 states that “[a] meet
and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” 
Here, the Court finds that the City has
not met its burden of showing that it met and conferred with Plaintiff
regarding “each issue” in the motion. Defense counsel testifies that the City
requested 30 more days to respond to the discovery at issue and that
Plaintiff’s counsel only offered a 5-day extension. (Motion, Declaration of
Bruce T. Murray (“Murray Decl.”), ¶¶ 6, 7.) However, the City has not submitted
any declaration indicating that it met and conferred with Plaintiff regarding the
arguments it presents in its motion (e.g., the discovery requests are unduly
burdensome). 
Nevertheless, the Court will consider
the motion on its merits since Plaintiff has not cited (and the Court has not
found) any law holding that failure to meet and confer in this instance warrants
denying the motion. 
IV.      DISCUSSION
The
City argues the following in support of its motion. Plaintiff propounded a set of 74 special interrogatories and
a set of 56 demands for production of documents. The discovery requests are
unduly burdensome. Indeed, the interrogatories exceed the statutory limit of 35
without justification. The number of demands is also beyond reasonable. The City
requested a 30-day extension to respond to the discovery, but Plaintiff refused
and granted the City only five (5) more days. Therefore, the City seeks an
order quashing the discovery requests in their entirety or requiring Plaintiff
to propound the discovery again in reasonable amounts. 
          In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
following. After offering a five-day extension, which was reasonable, the City
did not request further extensions; instead, it filed this motion without
meeting and conferring with Plaintiff. The discovery is not unduly burdensome
as the City argues. The discovery seeks information relevant to the City’s
affirmative defenses, facts, and witnesses, among other things. 
          In reply, the City contends (among
other things) that Plaintiff has not justified the excessive number of
interrogatories and demands, and Plaintiff’s position is unreasonable and
harassing. 
“The court, for good cause shown, may
make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, subd.
(b); 2031.060, subd. (b).) 
A protective order may extend the time
to respond to a set of interrogatories or demands for production of documents.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, subd. (b); 2031.060, subd. (b).)
          Here, the Court finds good cause to
grant the City more time to respond to the discovery requests. The Court has
reviewed the discovery at issue and agrees with Plaintiff that the discovery
requests seek relevant information. The Court also finds that Plaintiff’s
declaration explaining the reasons for propounding more than 35 special
interrogatories was sufficient. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.050
[requiring a party propounding more than 35 special interrogatories to attach a
declaration signed under penalty of perjury explaining the reason for the
number of interrogatories]; Motion, Murray
Decl., Exhibit
2 – a copy of the interrogatories, Declaration of Nineli Sarkissian in Support
of Additional Special Interrogatories [containing the information required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.050].) However, given the scope and number
of the discovery requests, the Court finds it was reasonable for the City to
ask for more time to respond. 
For
those reasons, the Court grants the City 30 more days
to respond to the discovery requests. The Court denies the City’s requests
for an order quashing the discovery requests
in their entirety and for an order requiring Plaintiff to propound them again.
Notwithstanding
the above, Plaintiff argues that if the Court finds the motion unsuccessful,
the Court should impose sanctions of $3,000 against the City.
In
reply, the City argues that Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is a “borderline”
strategic lawsuit against public participation (“SLAPP”) within the meaning of
California’s anti-SLAPP statute.
The Court finds the City’s anti-SLAPP
argument unpersuasive. Under relevant statutes, the Court can impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes a motion for a protective order unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, subd. (d); 2031.060, subd. (h) [providing exceptions
for electronically stored information, which is inapplicable in this instance].)
Here, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions because the City’s motion was somewhat
successful. 
V.        CONCLUSION
The Motion for a Protective Order is GRANTED
IN PART as follows. The request to extend Defendant City of Montebello’s time
to respond to Plaintiff Awilda
Perez’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of
Documents and Things, Set One, is GRANTED. The City
of Montebello shall have 30 days from this ruling to serve its verified
responses to the discovery requests. All other requests in the motion are
DENIED. Plaintiff Awilda Perez’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice. 
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
     
Dated this 5th day of November 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 