 Case Number:  22STCV03664    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR TRIAL CONTINUANCE
Hearing Date: 11/7/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03664 BRYANT CRUZ vs
DEREK ALLEN VOGLER, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Lyft 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: GRANTED IN PART
 
Plaintiff filed this
case on January 28, 2022, and trial is currently set for December 4, 2024.
Defendant Lyft requests a six-month trial continuance on the basis that Lyft
has recently changed its attorney. Counsel for Defendant Derek Allen Vogler is
scheduled to begin trial in Kern County on December 2, 2024, in Gonzalo
Ramirez, et al. v. Grimmway Enterprises, Inc., Case No. BCV-22-100428,
which is expected to last seven to ten days. Vogler’s counsel has also issued
over 70 subpoenas for records related to police reports, Plaintiff’s medical
and billing information, employment history, and other claims, with more than
30 of these subpoenas still outstanding. Additionally, the parties have agreed
to participate in mediation on February 19, 2025.
The Court notes that
this case is now more than two years old, and discovery and mediation should
have been completed by now. The Court is supposed to ensure that 100 percent of
civil cases conclude in 2 years. (see CRC 3.714). A change in counsel
does not constitute good cause for a continuance, as new counsel assumes all
pre-existing deadlines in the case. Thus, the only persuasive good faith basis
to continue this case is counsel’s December 2 trial conflict.  The fact that counsel scheduled a mediation AFTER
the trial date is a particularly unpersuasive basis for a continuance – the
parties have known the trial date for more than a year and, thus, had ample
opportunity to schedule a mediation before trial.  Nonetheless, as an accommodation to the
parties, the Court will grant a trial continuance to March 24, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The FSC shall be continued to March
10, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. Based on the purported need to do further discovery
(albeit, it is unclear why that has not been completed in the year that this
case has been at issue), the pre-trial dates, including discovery cut-off
dates, will follow the new trial date.
The parties should
consider the new trial date as firm.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 