 Case Number:  22STCV29373    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 11/7/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29373 RUBEN MELIKOFF
vs SAFEWAY INC., et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant The Vons Companies
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: SANCTIONS GRANTED 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
Plaintiff moves the
Court to do the following:
1. Striking of
defendant THE VONS COMPANIES, INC.’S answer and entering default (i.e.,
Terminating Sanction); 
2. Deeming all
liability and causation issues determined in favor of plaintiff against the
defendant THE VONS COMPANIES, INC. (i.e., an Issue Sanction); 
3. For an order
precluding defendant THE VONS COMPANIES, INC. from contesting liability (i.e.,
an Evidentiary Sanction) by way of the affirmative defenses of comparative
fault or assumption of risk; and/or 
4. Order monetary
sanctions against defendant THE VONS COMPANIES, INC. and/or their attorneys of
record, in the sum of $2,469.95 (i.e., Monetary Sanctions).
Background
On August 13, 2024, the Court heard Plaintiff’s motion to
compel depositions and issued a monetary sanction of $1,699.95. The Court
ordered that Defendant’s PMK (Person Most Knowledgeable) deposition, along with
the depositions of four additional employees, be completed by August 26, 2024,
the discovery cutoff date. Both parties submitted to the tentative, indicating
that both parties had notice of the Court’s ruling.[1]  The trial date has since been continued to November
22, 2024; discovery remains closed.
The Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) deposition was
completed; however, the depositions of the other four employees were not
conducted before the discovery cutoff. Although Defendant attempted to schedule
depositions for two of these employees after the cutoff and informed Plaintiff
that the other two employees were no longer under Defendant’s employment, these
actions occurred past the date set for them to occur. The proposed depositions
were set for dates after the discovery cutoff, and the information regarding
the two employees' departure was provided only six days before the cutoff,
making it untimely for Plaintiff to subpoena and depose these individuals prior
to the deadline.
Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 2024.050,
discovery beyond the cutoff date requires the Court's approval. Discovery is
considered closed after the cutoff date unless the Court specifically permits
it by approving a stipulation or granting a motion to reopen discovery. To
prevent such issues, the Court expressly ordered that the depositions occur
before the discovery cutoff. Defendant, however, failed to comply with the
Court’s order. Given these circumstances, sanctions are warranted.  The question is which of the requested
sanctions are appropriate.
The Civil Discovery
Act supports an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, beginning with
monetary sanctions and escalating only as needed. (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible
& Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)
Sanctions should be proportionate to the misconduct and “should not exceed that
which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967,
992.) Terminating sanctions are generally appropriate only where violations are
willful, there is a history of abuse, and less severe sanctions have proven
ineffective. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377,
390.)uTerminating sanctions are not appropriate in this instance,
as this is Defendant’s first clear violation, the monetary sanction has been
paid, the PMK deposition has been completed, and Defendant attempted, albeit
untimely, to produce two employees for deposition. No history of discovery
abuse exists, and terminating sanctions would create a “windfall” for Plaintiff,
placing Plaintiff in a better position than if Defendant had fully complied.Given the upcoming trial date, reopening discovery at this
late stage is somewhat impractical, though not entirely unfeasible. Monetary
sanctions alone would be inadequate to address the prejudice caused to
Plaintiff, particularly with trial imminent. Allowing Defendant to present
testimony from employees who had not been deposed would create a “windfall” for
Defendant. In light of these considerations, the court orders that (1) discovery
be re-opened for the limited purpose of permitting Plaintiff to take Defendant employee
depositions; (2) Defendant make the two store employees available for deposition
in the next 7 business days; (3) Defendant is to pay for any costs associated
with expediting the employee depositions, including expedited transcripts; (4) Defendant is barred from
introducing any testimony or declarations from the two former employees whose
depositions were not conducted by the discovery cutoff, as previously ordered
by the Court and is barred from introducing testimony from the 2 current
employees if they are not made available for deposition as ordered herein; and
(5) Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally, are to pay monetary
sanctions of $2,000 related to the cost of this motion.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 


