 Case Number:  22STCV03495    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO QUASH AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 11/7/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03495 JOSIAH ORELLANA,
et al. vs OVIG VARTANIAN, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Josiah
Orellana and Vanessa Smith
Responding Party: Defendant Ovig Vartanian 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO QUASH IS MOOT AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED 
 
This motion concerns
workers’ compensation subpoenas served in a personal injury case. Defendant
alleges that the subpoenas have been withdrawn and reissued with the correct
forms. Plaintiffs Josiah Orellana and Vanessa Smith acknowledge this in their
reply, rendering the motion moot. However, the issue of sanctions remains.
Timeline
On September 20, 2024,
Defendant issued subpoenas to nine facilities seeking Plaintiffs’ employment
and medical records, with a production date of October 15, 2024. Motion to
quash subpoena must be served at least 5 days before the date set for
production of the subpoenaed records. (CCP § 1985.3.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ deadline
to file a motion to quash was October 10, 2024.
On October 1, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with defense counsel, alerting them that the
subpoenas were incorrectly served on a form intended for the “Workers’
Compensation Appeals Board.” Plaintiff’s counsel requested that the subpoenas
be withdrawn.
On October 2, 2024,
Defense counsel confirmed that the subpoena vendor would withdraw the incorrect
subpoenas and reissue correct ones. Defense counsel declares that every
business day since October 2, 2024, their office followed up with the vendor by
phone and/or email seeking confirmation of the withdrawals. However, defense
counsel was unable to reach the vendor until October 9, 2024 (Decl. of Amy Lee,
¶ 9.)
On October 9, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet-and-confer letter to Defense counsel, stating
that Plaintiff had been informed the incorrect subpoenas had not been
withdrawn. Plaintiff’s counsel demanded proof of withdrawal by the end of the
day and indicated that Plaintiff would proceed with a motion to quash if
confirmation was not received.
On the same day,
Defense counsel responded to Plaintiff’s counsel, advising her that the vendor
had confirmed on October 2, 2024, that they would withdraw the incorrect
subpoenas and issue corrected ones. Defense counsel noted they were actively
following up with the vendor for proof of withdrawal.
However, Defendant did
not provide proof that the subpoenas had been withdrawn by October 9, 2024, and
Plaintiff filed the motion to quash the following day, meeting the deadline.
It appears that
Defendant’s vendor did not complete the withdrawal of the subpoenas until
October 18, 2024 (Id. ¶ 10), when the Confirmation of the withdrawal sent to
Plaintiff.
Discussion
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff had until October 10, 2024, to file the motion. Although Defendant
made repeated efforts to contact the vendor to withdraw the subpoenas starting
on October 2, 2024, the subpoenas were not officially withdrawn until October
18, 2024—8 days after Plaintiff’s filing deadline. While the Court does not
find that Defendant acted in bad faith, Plaintiff alerted Defendant to the
issue on October 2, 2024, well before the deadline, providing Defendant ample
time to withdraw the subpoenas. Despite Defendant’s assurances on October 2
that the subpoenas would be withdrawn, deponents continued to receive notices
through October 9, 2024. Without timely confirmation of withdrawal, Plaintiff
was compelled to file the motion and incur attorney’s fees and therefore should
be reimbursed
Considering Defendant’s
diligent efforts to resolve the issue, the Court reduces the sanction to $1000,
payable jointly and severally by Defendant Ovig Vartanian and his attorney to
Plaintiff within 20 days of this order.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 