 Case Number:  23LBCV00112    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Jennifer Carbine filed this action against Defendant, Nats
Early Bite, Inc. for violations of UNRUH, contending Defendant’s website is not
accessible to blind or visually impaired persons.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on 1/20/23.  Plaintiff filed proof of service of the
summons and complaint on 2/28/23.  The
Cler, at Plaintiff’s request, entered Defendant’s default on 4/14/23.  
 
On 8/11/23, the Court conducted a default judgment prove-up
hearing.  The Court indicated it believed
the case involved a high frequency litigator, rendering CCP §425.55
applicable.  The Court specially set a
hearing on the issue for 9/28/23 and ordered the parties to brief the
issue.  
 
2.    
High Frequency Litigator
On 8/28/23, Plaintiff timely filed
a brief concerning the issue of whether or not she constitutes a high frequency
litigator per CCP §425.55.  Plaintiff contends
Civil Code §55.3(a)(2) defines construction-related accessibility claims in a
way that excludes her claim in this case. 
She cites the statute, which provides:
“(2) ‘Construction-related
accessibility claim’ means any claim of a violation of any construction-related
accessibility standard, as defined by paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of
Section 55.52, with respect to a place of public accommodation.
‘Construction-related accessibility claim’ does not include a claim of
interference with housing within the meaning of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b)
of Section 54.1, or any claim of interference caused by something other than
the construction-related accessibility condition of the property, including,
but not limited to, the conduct of any person.”
 
The Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s
interpretation of the statute.  The Court
finds the statute is intended to exclude claims that persons engaged in acts
that discriminated against other persons. 
The Court finds Plaintiff, in this case, is alleging Defendant “constructed”
its website in a manner that is not accessible to Plaintiff.  The Court therefore finds Plaintiff, to
comply with the letter and spirit of the Code, must comply with all high-frequency
litigator requirements in connection with this and other similar lawsuits.   
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.
 