 Case Number:  22LBCV00043    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Milan V. Balejka and
Maria Riza Balejka filed this action against Defendants, Theresa Hertzog, Kiat
Chan, and all persons claiming right, etc., to the subject property.  Plaintiffs filed the action on 1/26/22.  The complaint includes causes of action for
quiet title, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and cancellation of
instruments.  
 
On 2/1023, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint.  The cross-complaint
includes causes of action for partition, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, beach
of contract, unfair business practices, unjust enrichment, quiet title,
declaratory relief, and accounting.  
 

Motion for Order of
     Partition by Sale

Defendants and Cross-Complainants
move for an order entering an interlocutory judgment for partition and sale and
appointing a referee.  Defendants move
pursuant to CCP §§872.210, 872.720, and 872.810.
 
The subject code sections are found
in the Code of Civil Procedure, Part 2 “Of Civil Actions,” Title 10.5 “Partition
of Real and Personal Property,” Chapter 3 “Trial,” Article 2 “Determination of
Right to Partition.”  While Defendants
correctly cite the statutes upon which they rely, Defendants omit §872.710(a),
which provides, “At the trial, the court shall determine whether the plaintiff
has the right to partition.”  
 
Nothing in the Code permits the partition
determination to be made by way of noticed motion.  Notably, Defendants’ cross-complaint, which is
set for trial on 1/16/24, seeks partition by way of the first cause of
action.  
 
Absent authority permitting the
Court to enter an interlocutory judgment by noticed motion, as opposed to
trial, the motion is denied.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   