  Case Number:  20STCV04774    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  S27 NATURE OF ACTION:  
 
Civil Lawsuit
 
PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE FILED:          
 
Amended Petition filed 09/19/23
 
NOTICE TO STATE AGENCIES WHEN PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
When seeking approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice of
the hearing and service of the petition must be made upon three state agencies
including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and
Dept. of Health Care Services.  (Probate
Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). The proof of service attached to the brief
indicates that service was made on 9/19/23 which is only nine days prior to the
hearing and therefore notice is insufficient. 
(It also indicates service by email only which is not possible for the
state agencies, and there is no email address listed next to the state agency
names and email addresses on the proof of service.). 
 
TR:  The
Court will continue this hearing to require 15 days’ mailed notice and proof of
service of the amended petition brief to the three state agencies.  
 
PLAINTIFF:       
 
Jhene Gutierrez, age 4
 
PETITIONER:   
 
Magdalena Santana (Appointed 2/20/20)
 
GROSS AND NET SETTLEMENT (Petition, p. 6, sections 15 and
16f):           
 
Gross $6.5 million, Net $4,913,021.32
 
 
PROPOSED RECIPIENT OF SETTLEMENT PROCEEDS (Petition, pp. 8-9, sec.
18):
 
$2,613,021.32 cash to special needs trust (SNT), $2.3 million to
purchase an annuity.
 
 
An SNT is used to receive the settlement funds in these situations
so that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and
other benefits.  Historically, a person
receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt
assets, and any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss
of benefits eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On
July 1, 2022, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was raised to $130,000 for
individuals while the asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not
change.  
 
ANNUITY TERMS:
 
$9,132.91 per month for the life of Jhene Gutierrez, guaranteed
for 35 years, beginning on November 27, 2023. The last guaranteed payment will
be made on October 27, 2058.  (Annuity
documents at Attachment 18b(3), court’s pdf at p. 85.)  
 
TR:  It
is unclear from the provided annuity documents whether the annuity payments
will be to plaintiff or to the SNT.  The Court
requests confirmation that payments will be to the SNT, otherwise payments
directly to plaintiff will render plaintiff ineligible for benefits and
therefore negate the purpose of a SNT.
 
SCOPE OF REVIEW:
 
This referral to the probate department is limited to the review
of the proposed trust instrument and a suggestion of how to move forward
regarding administration of the trust. 
This memorandum therefore does not address the advisability of the
compromise amount/terms or related concerns including attorney’s fees and
costs. 
 
BRIEFING REGARDING TRUST ISSUES:
 
Petitioner provides briefing regarding trust issue at Attachment
18b(4) (court’s pdf at p. 94).
 
PROPOSED TRUST INSTRUMENT:
 
Petitioner provides the proposed trust instrument as part of
Attachment 18b(4) (court’s pdf at p. 99). 

 
The trust instrument includes a mandatory payback provision to
require, upon the death of the trust beneficiary, that the trust pay back
states that have provided medical assistance to the trust beneficiary, up to
the amount of remaining trust assets: 
Yes
 
The trust instrument provides that upon the death of the trust
beneficiary/plaintiff, any trust assets remaining after payback of medical
assistance to the states shall be distributed to the trust beneficiary’s heirs
at law and not to any specific persons: 
Yes
 
The trust makes itself subject to the continuing jurisdiction and
supervision of the court:  Yes
 
The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are set
forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule
4.116(b).  
 
TR: The proposed trust instrument meets those requirements and is
ready for approval for creation and/or funding.
 
ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR RELIEF:
 
Petitioner makes the following additional requests for relief that
are beyond those fundamental to the approval and funding of a settlement trust:
 
1.      Petitioner requests authority for trustee to invest in proprietary funds,
mutual funds, and bonds with maturity dates greater than five years to provide
for diversification and a higher rate of investment return.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 95.)  This request would provide for a
broader investment authority than the statutory baseline but is common when the
trust assets will be large and the investment horizon is long (where plaintiff
is fairly young).  
 
TR:  The Court grants this request.
 
2.      Petitioner requests authority for trustee to take fees on an interim
periodic basis.  (Attachment
18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 96.)  These requests are common when trustee will
be a corporate fiduciary and trust funding is large.  The fees would be adjusted if necessary
during the annual or biannual accountings in the Probate court.  
 
TR:  The Court grants this request.  
 
3.      Petitioner
requests authority for trustee to spend up to $850,000 plus closing costs in
trust assets to purchase a residence that will be occupied by the trust
beneficiary/plaintiff to accommodate her special needs.  The trust would pay for ongoing property
taxes, insurance, and major maintenance and repairs.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p.
97.)  
 
TR: The court deny this request without prejudice for trustee’s
ability to make this request in the Probate case that will be opened to provide
court supervision of the trust administration. 
A petition there can be supported by additional details regarding the
proposed purchase, the effect on trustee’s ability to provide for the
beneficiary’s special needs if the trust assets are used for the purchase, etc.  
 
4.      Petitioner
requests authority for trustee to spend up to $65,000 of trust assets to
purchase a vehicle tat will be used to transport the trust beneficiary and to
accommodate her special needs. 
(Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 97.). The vehicle would be titled
in the name of petitioner/plaintiff’s mother, and the trust would have a lien
on the vehicle to secure the trust’s interest in the purchase price.  The trust would pay for ongoing registration,
insurance, and major maintenance or repairs. 
These terms are typical for purchases of vehicles from a SNT.  
 
TR:  The Court grants this request.
 
 
5.      Petitioner
requests authority for trustee to pay petitioner $6,000 per month as trust
beneficiary/plaintiff’s primary caregiver. 
Trustee would engage a third party to employ petitioner which would add
expenses for payroll taxes, insurance, and administrative fees.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p.
98.)  These requests are common when a
parent is a primary caregiver of a minor trust beneficiary and the trust
funding is significant.  
 
TR:  The Court grants this request.
 
 
6.     
Petitioner requests authority to pay $4,500 fees to trust
specialist counsel, Randolph Sharon, for tasks relating to the minor’s
settlement trust including drafting of the trust instrument and related
portions of this petition.  (Attachment
18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 98.)  
 
TR:  The Court grants this request.
 
FINDINGS WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from
settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604(b) (there are factual allegations in the Petition to
Approve Compromise and its attachments supporting the settlement that generally
cover the requisite findings):
 

The SNT beneficiary has a
     disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide
     for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap;
The SNT beneficiary is likely to
     have special needs that will not be met without the trust; 
The money to be paid to the trust
     does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the
     SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
TRUSTE AND BOND:
 
The proposed initial trustee is Wells Fargo Bank, N/A.
 
Normally, bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is
a corporate fiduciary.  (California Rules
of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.)  
 
TR: The proposed trustee meets that requirement and the court
should not require bond.  
 
ORDERS/PROPOSED ORDER:
 
Proposed Order received stamp date: 09/19/23
 
General trust orders at Attachment 13, order pdf pp. 7, 20.
 
Trust terms included in order as
required (probate Code section 3604(a): Yes
Required Probate Code 3604(b) findings
made in order: Yes
Order provides for satisfaction of
state liens (Order p. 3, sec. 8b(3)): Yes
Order provides for court jurisdiction
over trust: Yes
Order requires first trust accounting
in one year and sets 14 month calendar due date:  Yes, but actual calendar due date to be
inserted at blank provided at order pdf, p. 22, para. 114.
Order requires filing of a Notice of
Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044
within 60 days:  Yes, but actual
calendar due date to be inserted at blank provided at order pdf, p. 21, para.
11.
Order sets OSC in this civil
department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission
of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form
PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate: Yes, but actual
calendar OSC date to be inserted at blank provided at order pdf, p. 22, para.
13.
Proposed order contains rulings granting all Additional Requests
for Relief as set forth in that section of this memorandum above.  (Order pdf at pp. 20-21.)  If the court denies or grants in part any of
those requests then the language granting those requests will need to be
stricken or modified.  
 
RECOMMENDATIONS:
 
·        
The Court continues hearing for required 15 days’ mailed notice to
three state agencies.   
·        
When the Court reaches the merits of the petition:
·        
Approve settlement, fees, etc.: 
Court’s discretion
·        
Approve creation and funding of proposed trust: Yes
·        
Court to confirm that annuity payments will be made to the SNT,
not to plaintiff directly/individually.
·        
Make the Probate Code section 3604(b) findings: Yes
·        
Make rulings on the Additional Requests for Relief as set forth in
that section above.
·        
Require trustee bond: No bond
·        
Require first trust accounting in one year and set calendar due
date for filing in 14 months.
·        
Set OSC in civil department in approximately 60 days to ensure
funding of settlement, submission of bond if required, purchase of annuity if
relevant, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in
probate.
·        
Proposed Order: Corrections needed.  Modifications also needed depending upon
court’s ruling on Additional Requests for Relief.   