 Case Number:  22LBCV00953    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Natalie Grohosky filed this
action against Defendants, Edward E. Simpkins, Robin Rix, and Diane Rix (each
in their capacity as trustee of their various trusts), as well as Berro
Management Company, Inc. for Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, Premises
Liability, and Negligent Misrepresentation. 
The crux of the complaint is that Plaintiff repeatedly complained of
black mold in her apartment, Defendant repeatedly refused to cure the mold
problem, and Plaintiff was forced to move out due to serious health problems, some
of which are ongoing even since leaving the premises.  
 

Motion to Strike

a.    
Procedural History
Defendants filed motions to strike on
4/24/23 and 5/11/23, setting them for hearing on dates in September and
December.  On 5/19/23, the Court held a
Case Management Conference.  All parties
appeared.  The Court rescheduled the
hearing on the motions to strike for 8/29/23. 
All parties waived notice.  Prior
to the 8/29/23, hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling continuing the
hearing on the motion to strike because the parties failed to meet and confer
and offering meet and confer guidance in the hopes that the parties could avoid
a further hearing on the motion.  The
parties submitted on the tentative ruling, which became the final ruling of the
Court.  
 
b.    
Analysis
On 9/19/23, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
opposition to the motion to strike.  She indicates
she attempted to meet and confer, but Defendants did not respond.  She provides authorities in support of her
position that the request for punitive damages should not be stricken.  
 
Defendants failed to file any
timely supplemental papers, and failed to comply with the meet and confer
requirement.  At the pleading stage, the
Court finds the prayer and related allegations sufficient, and denies the
motion to strike.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  