 Case Number:  BC570050    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Stephen Forde filed this action against Defendants, Allan
Entous, Karen Entous, Dan Entous, Allan Entous, as Trustee of the Entous
Revocable Trust, etc., and Ress Financial Corporation for declaratory relief,
injunctive relief, possession of personal property, reconveyance of trust
deeds, and damages on 1/21/15.  Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges the Entous Defendants provided Plaintiff with a series of
loans, all of which charged interest in excess of the legally permissible rate,
and thereafter wrongfully commenced foreclosure proceedings on Plaintiff’s
property based on Plaintiff’s breach of a secured loan.
 
The case has a procedural history far too complex to reiterate in this
ruling.  Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint included causes of action for usury and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Plaintiff agreed to dismiss the causes of action pursuant to a settlement
with Defendants.  However, the agreement
was to dismiss the claims without prejudice pending the outcome of Plaintiff’s
appeal of Defendants’ successful motion for summary adjudication.  
 
The Court of Appeals ultimately reversed the Court’s ruling on the
summary adjudication motion.  On 7/13/21,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to add the usury and unfair
business practices causes of action back into the complaint.  On 10/12/21, the Court overruled Defendants’
demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint. 

 
Pertinent to today’s motions, on 8/08/22, jury trial commenced.  On 8/17/22, the jury returned its special
verdict.  On 8/19/22, Plaintiff submitted
a proposed judgment.  Defendants filed
objections to the judgment, and the parties briefed the objections.  On 12/20/22, the Court entered judgment.  The judgment stated, among other things, “Plaintiff…is
the prevailing party and is entitled to an award of attorneys’ fees and his
costs of suit.”
 
On 12/20/22, the same day the Court entered judgment, the Court issued
a minute order.  The minute order stated:
Court Order
The Court has received and reviewed Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s
proposed judgment.
The Court sustains the objections as no pre-judgment interest has been
awarded.
The amended judgment is signed and filed this date.
Plaintiff is to give notice.
Certificate of Mailing is attached.
 
The Certificate of Mailing indicates the Clerk mailed the 12/20/22
minute order to Plaintiff’s attorney and to Defense Counsel.  On 6/13/22, Plaintiff gave notice of entry of
judgment.  
 

Motion to Strike Costs

a.     Basis of Motion
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs, contending
it was untimely filed.  
 
b.     Initial Notes
As an initial note, Defendants filed their motion on 6/30/23, setting
it for hearing on 1/18/24.  The Court, on
ex parte application, advanced the hearing to 9/28/23.  Plaintiff timely filed opposition to the
motion one day late, on 9/15/23, likely because 9/22/23 was a newly-added court
holiday.  Any reply was due on or before
9/20/23.  The Court has not, to date,
received any reply papers.  
 
As an additional initial note, Defendants contend, in their moving
papers, that Plaintiff has never filed a memorandum of costs.  See motion, page 4, lines 10-11.  This is incorrect.  The memorandum was filed on 6/15/23.  It was marked “received,” because the clerk
typically “receives” the memorandum of costs and holds it until a motion to
strike/tax is either filed or not filed, at which time the memorandum is changed
to “filed” and costs are either entered or not entered.  Thus, Plaintiff properly filed the memorandum
on 6/15/23, and the Court rejects any argument that he did not do so.
 
c.     Time Requirements for Filing a Memorandum of
Costs
Pursuant to CRC 3.1700(a)(1), the prevailing party must file and serve
a memorandum of costs no later than the earlier of:
15 days after the clerk’s service of notice of entry of judgment;
15 days after any party’s service of such notice; or
180 days after entry of judgment. 

 
d.     12/20/22 Minute Order
Defendants contend the Court’s 12/20/22 minute order constitutes “clerk’s
service of notice of entry of judgment,” such that the fifteen-day period
within which a memorandum must be filed commenced running.  
 
Plaintiff relies on Sunset Millennium Associates, LLC v. Le Songe, LLC
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 256, 260, In re Marriage of Taschen (2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 681, 686, and Bi-Coastal Payroll Services, Inc. v.
California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 579, 585-586
to support his position that the minute order does not constitute notice of
entry of judgment.  
 
Plaintiff’s cited cases were all decided in the context of determining whether
or not a court mailing constituted “service of notice of entry of judgment” for
purposes of commencing the time to file an appeal, which is governed by CRC
8.104(a)(1).  The cases do, however, collectively
hold that a minute order does not commence the time for filing an appeal unless
it is expressly entitled “Notice of Entry.” 

 
Absent any reply, the Court finds the cited cases are binding, and the
clerk’s minute order did not serve to commence the running of the time to file
the memorandum of costs.
 
e.     Conclusion
The Court finds Plaintiff gave notice of entry of judgment on 6/13/23
and filed his memorandum of costs two days later, on 6/15/23.  The memorandum was therefore timely
filed.  Because failure to timely file
the memorandum is the sole stated basis for the motion, the motion to strike
costs is denied.
 

Motion for Attorneys’ Fees

a.     Procedural History
On 6/15/23, Plaintiff filed a motion for attorneys' fees.  On 9/15/23, the Court heard and denied
Defendants’ ex parte application to continue the hearing on the motion.  On 9/18/23, Defendants filed untimely
opposition to the motion (opposition was due on or before 9/14/23).  On 9/21/23, Plaintiff filed untimely reply
papers (reply was due on or before 9/20/23 in light of the 9/22/23 court
holiday).  The Court has read and
considered the opposition and the reply. 

 
b.    
Timeliness
of Motion
Defendant’s first argument is that the motion for attorneys’ fees
should be denied in its entirely because it was not timely filed.  Defendant’s argument is rejected for the
reasons discussed above in connection with the motion to strike costs.
 
c.    
Prevailing
Party
Defendant’s second argument is that
Plaintiff did not prevail on any claim concerning the promissory notes that
would give rise to a contractual basis for imposition of attorneys’ fees.  Defendant contends Plaintiff, at trial, successfully
argued that the promissory notes did not govern the parties’ relationship, and
instead oral agreements, which lacked an attorneys’ fees clause, governed their
relationship.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends he
successfully showed that the promissory notes did govern the parties’
relationship, but that Defendant also wrongfully sought to recover additional interest
and fees not contemplated by the promissory notes.  
 
The Court’s recollection of the
issue comports with Plaintiff’s position. 
The Court finds the parties’ promissory notes govern the parties’ relationship
and support imposition of fees, and Plaintiff merely showed, at trial, that
Defendant was wrongfully seeking to recover interest and fees outside of the scope
of the parties’ agreement.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff’s proposed judgment
included an indication that Plaintiff is the prevailing party and is entitled
to an award of attorneys’ fees, and Defendant failed to successfully object to
the inclusion of the finding in the final version of the judgment.  
 
d.     Amount
of Fees
The final issue is the amount of
fees to be awarded.  
 
Plaintiff was previously
represented by attorneys Josefsberg, Menke, Ajalat, and Degani.  Plaintiff seeks to recover fees in the amounts
of $110,570, $123,112.50, $28,470, and $28,400 respectively, for those
attorneys’ work.  The only evidence that
Plaintiff incurred these fees is his own declaration and his check ledger.  He provided nothing from the former
attorneys, and he did not provide canceled checks.  The Court finds Plaintiff failed to meet his
burden to show the full amount of fees was actually incurred.  
 
The Court has discretion to award
fees in a reasonable amount.  See Ellis
v. Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
851, 881.  The Court is exercising its
discretion and awarding 75% of the fees sought, or a total of $217.914.38.
 
Plaintiff has been represented by
attorney Cooper from April of 2021 to the present.  Cooper seeks to recover $426,308 in fees
incurred during that time, including in connection with the current
motions.  The Court finds the amount
grossly inflated based on its own experience of handling the case.  The Court reduces the fees by 40%, to
$255,784.80.  
 
e.    
Conclusion
The Court awards a total of
$473,699.18 in attorneys’ fees in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant.  The judgment will be
interlineated to add the attorneys’ fees, as well as the costs in the memorandum
of costs, at the time of the hearing.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   