 Case Number:  23VECV01580    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  T SOLORZANO V GUEVARA 23VECV01580 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:   Defendants Blanca Guevara and Panorama Apartment Homes, LLC’s Demurrer  to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the  seventh cause of action; OVERRULED as to the eleventh cause of action; and  SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the twelfth cause of action.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the  pleading defects identified and not to add new causes of action. Introduction  Defendants Blanca Guevara (Guevara) and Panorama Apartment  Homes, LLC’s (Panorama) (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff  Fidelia Hernandez Solorzano’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue the seventh  cause of action (COA) for Civil Code section 1941.1 violation; the eleventh COA  for discrimination – FEHA violation, and the twelfth COA for elder abuse.   Discussion   As to the seventh COA for violation of Civil Code section  1941.1, Plaintiff stands on the contention that this statute is proper grounds  to support a COA.  However, the statute  merely provides the definition of or characteristics for an untenantable  dwelling.  Plaintiff failed to present  any legal authority to support her contention that this statute can be the  grounds to support a COA.  As argued by  Defendants, the proper statutory grounds for a statutory habitability COA is  Civil Code section 1942.4.  Because Civil  Code section 1941.1 is improper grounds to support a COA, the demurrer to the  seventh COA is persuasive. Defendants’ arguments as to a pleading defect regarding a  Civil Code section 1942.4 violation need not be reviewed because Plaintiff  stood on the contention that the claim is not for a Civil Code section 1942.4  violation.  Even if Plaintiff were to  change her mind and argue that the claim is for a statutory habitability claim  under Civil Code section 1942.4, the Court would rule that the COA is  insufficiently pled with supportive facts to allege that a “public officer or  employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after  inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord's agent in  writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the  substandard conditions.”  (Civ. Code,  sec. 1942.4(a)(2).)   The demurrer to the seventh COA is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE. As to the eleventh COA for FEHA violation, Defendants argued  that the COA failed to allege sufficient facts to allege discrimination because  Plaintiff was not denied any housing accommodation or that Plaintiff was  provided a tenancy at the premise.   However, this argument is grounded on a very narrow reading of the  statute.  Per Government Code section  12927(c)(1), discrimination “includes provision of inferior terms, conditions,  privileges, facilities, or services in connection with those housing accommodations”  and “includes harassment in connection with those housing accommodations.”  Plaintiff sufficiently alleged that she is in  a protected class based upon her race – Latina – and that Defendants refused to  repair/maintain her unit or provide repair/maintenance services to her unit  and/or threatened to evict her based upon her race.  These allegations are sufficient to allege  discrimination based upon Defendants inferior facilities or services.  Also, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged that she  was harassed based upon her race and threatened with eviction and/or  deportation due to her race.   Defendants then added a completely new argument in the Reply  that was not raised in the Demurrer and was not raised in response to an  argument in the Opposition.  Defendants  argued that there are insufficient facts pled to support a FEHA retaliation  claim.  Defendants attempted to  characterize Plaintiff’s arguments in the Opposition as being based upon  retaliation.  But no such argument is seen  in the Opposition.  Because the argument  is first made in the Reply without it being a response to any argument made in  the Opposition, the Court did not consider the argument.  Raising the argument for the first time in  the Reply deprived Plaintiff of proper notice and opportunity to be heard.  Without due process, the argument cannot be  considered. The demurrer to the eleventh COA is OVERRULED. As to the twelfth COA for elder abuse, Defendants argued  that they are not alleged to be care custodians or that Defendants provided  care for Plaintiff’s physical and mental health needs.  Plaintiff claimed that the COA is actually  for financial elder abuse.  However, the  FAC does not expressly identify or refer to the financial elder abuse  statute.  (Welf. & Inst. Code, sec.  15610.30.)  Plaintiff’s allegation citing  to Welfare & Institution Code section 15610.07 is insufficient to provide  notice to Defendants that the claim is for financial abuse because the statute  is merely a definition of “abuse of an elder or a dependent adult.”  The definition includes many grounds for an  elder abuse claim: physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, as well as financial  abuse.  As pled, the twelfth COA is  insufficient to allege specific facts to support a financial elder abuse  COA.  Plaintiff needs to plead additional  facts to support the alleged financial elder abuse claim. The demurrer to the twelfth COA is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO  AMEND.   IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.EX PARTE APPLICATION TO CONSOLIDATE: DENY WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  THE CASES MUST BE RELATED FIRST.  PLEASE FILE NOTICES OF RELATED CASES IN BOTH CASES.