  Case Number:  24PSCV00688    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration Respondent: Plaintiff Nesrin  M. Elshabasy TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This is a Song-Beverly  action. In June 2022, Plaintiff Nesrin M. Elshabasy allegedly entered into a  warranty contract with Defendant Hyundai Motor America (Hyundai) by purchasing  a 2022 Hyundai Tucson. Subsequently, Elshabasy alleges the vehicle presented  with serious defects in its structural, suspension, engine, electrical, and  steering systems. On March 7, 2024, Elshabasy  filed a complaint against Hyundai; Riverside Metro Auto Group, LLC, doing  business as Riverside Hyundai; and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) breach of express warranty; (2) breach of implied warranty;  (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, subdivision (b); and (4) negligent  repair. On July 10, 2024, Hyundai  filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for December  11, 2024. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE Hyundai requests the court  take judicial notice of the Complaint filed in the present action. Elshabasy  requests the court take judicial notice of federal regulations and  congressional records. The court GRANTS their requests pursuant to  Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d). EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Elshabasy’s evidentiary  objections are OVERRULED. ANALYSIS Hyundai  moves to compel arbitration of Elshabasy’s lemon law claims. For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS Hyundai’s motion. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.)  The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties  8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the court’s role  “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists  and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia  Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840,  quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th  Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Hyundai argues Elshabasy’s action is subject to two different  arbitration provisions, including a provision in the subject vehicle’s “Owner’s  Handbook and Warranty Information” (Owner’s Handbook) and a provision in the  Connected Services Agreement Terms and Conditions (Bluelink Agreement) for Hyundai’s  Bluelink services. Because the court finds the arbitration provision in the  Bluelink Agreement applies to the present action, the court need not determine  the effect of the arbitration provision in the Owner’s Handbook. When  Elshabasy enrolled in Hyundai’s Bluelink services, Hyundai argues Elshabasy agreed to the Bluelink Agreement which  included an arbitration provision. (Rao Decl., ¶ 4-6.) The provision provided  in relevant part as follows: “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and all  disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement,  Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, the Vehicle, use  of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or  seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via  the sites or through mobile application, except any disputes or claims which  under governing law are not subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted  by applicable law. This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly  interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us subject to  arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. . . . The agreement to  arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to: claims based in contract,  tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory;  claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement . . . .” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2,  § 14(C)(a).) In  opposition, Elshabasy first argues Hyundai fails to establish that Elshabasy  actually assented to the Bluelink Agreement. (Opp., p. 12:10-28.) To establish  prima facie evidence of an arbitration agreement, the party moving for  arbitration need only provide a copy of the arbitration provision that purports  to be signed by the parties or set forth the agreement’s terms in the motion. (Gamboa,  supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) The moving party is not required “to  follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” (Ibid, quoting  Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) The  opposing party “bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the  authenticity of the agreement” and can do so with statements under oath. (Ibid.)  If the opposing party meets their burden, the moving party must then establish  a valid arbitration provision with admissible evidence by preponderance of the  evidence. (Ibid.) Here,  Elshabasy failed to present sufficient evidence that establishes Elshabasy did  not sign or agree to the Bluelink Agreement. In fact, while Elshabasy provided  a declaration that discusses the Owner’s Handbook, Elshabasy neglects any  discussion of the Bluelink Agreement. Thus, the court finds Elshabasy failed to  carry the burden of challenging the Bluelink Agreement’s authenticity. Next,  Elshabasy argues the clear language of the Bluelink Agreement indicates the  arbitration provision only applies to claims related to Bluelink and does not  apply to statutory warranty claims. (Opp., p. 13:11-25.) But Elshabasy does not  provide any examples of such purportedly clear language. While Elshabasy points  to the language stating “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and all  disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement,” Elshabasy’s  quotation omits the rest of the sentence which also includes claims arising out  of or relating to service plans or Elshabasy’s vehicle. (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(C)(a).)  Elshabasy also points to language in the Bluelink Agreement that disclaims  warranties for “connected services.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 10.) But the fact  that the Bluelink Agreement disclaims warranties for Bluelink supports the  broad interpretation of the arbitration provision as it also applies to  warranty claims. Elshabasy  next points to the preamble of the arbitration provision which states as  follows: “MOST CUSTOMER CONCERNS CAN BE RESOLVED QUICKLY AND  TO THE CUSTOMER'S SATISFACTION BY CONTACTING HYUNDAI’S CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT  AT CONSUMERAFFAIRS@HMAUSA.COM OR CALLING 800-633-5151 AND THE GENESIS CUSTOMER  SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT CUSTOMERCARE@GENESISMOTORSUSA.COM OR CALLING  844-340-9741. IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT THAT THE APPROPRIATE CUSTOMER SERVICE  DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO RESOLVE YOUR CONCERNS, WE EACH AGREE TO RESOLVE THOSE  DISPUTES THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION OR SMALL CLAIMS COURT INSTEAD OF IN COURTS  OF GENERAL JURISDICTION TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AND SUBJECT TO  THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(C).) Elshabasy  argues this language suggests the arbitration provision is limited to disputes  over Bluelink services that cannot be resolved by Hyundai’s customer service  department. (Opp., p. 13:26-14:19.) The court notes, however, that nowhere in  this clause does it state the arbitration provision only applies to concerns  related to Bluelink issues.  Further, the  court recognizes that concerns can also conceivably apply to any issue with Elshabasy’s  vehicle. Moreover, Elshabasy’s argued interpretation would conflict with the  arbitration provision’s explicit application to claims arising from Elshabasy’s  vehicle and based on warranties or statutes. Furthermore, the arbitration  provision states it applies to “claims that arose before this or any prior  Agreement.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(C)(a).) Based on the broad applicability of  these provisions, the court finds that this arbitration provision is applicable  to Elshabasy’s present action. UNCONSCIONABILITY In  opposition to the arbitration provision’s enforcement, Elshabasy argues the  arbitration provision is unconscionable. Pursuant to both federal and state  law, arbitration agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are  revocable for reasons under state law that would render any contract revocable”  including “fraud, duress, and unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances,  Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a  procedural and a substantive element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or  ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or  ‘one-sided’ results.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,  Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC  Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486-487.) While both elements must be  present to prevent enforcement, courts evaluate them as a sliding scale in that  “the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of  procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the  term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) Procedural Unconscionability As  to procedural unconscionability, Elshabasy argues the arbitration provision is  procedurally unconscionable because it constitutes a contract of adhesion.  (Opp., p. 16:12-17.) A contract of adhesion is “a standardized contract, which,  imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to  the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject  it.” (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Companies (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694.)  When “there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, ‘the degree of  procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement  will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is  high.’” (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215  Cal.App.4th 695, 704, quoting Ajamian v. CantorCO2e (2012) 203  Cal.App.4th 771, 796.)  Here,  while the arbitration provision in the Bluelink agreement appears to be a  contract of adhesion, Elshabasy fails to point to any evidence of oppression or  surprise. Thus, the court determines the degree of procedural unconscionability  is low. Substantive Unconscionability As  to substantive unconscionability, Elshabasy argues the arbitration provision is  one-sided because it applies to warranty claims in favor of Hyundai. (Opp., p. 17:4-18:9.)  But the arbitration provision does not only require arbitration of warranty  claims. It broadly requires arbitration of “all disputes and claims between us  arising out of or relating to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected  Services Systems, Service Plans, the Vehicle, use  of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or  seek product/service support  for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile  application, except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not  subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.”  (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(C)(a).) Since the arbitration provision also covers any  claims that Hyundai may have against Elshabasy, the court finds that the  provision is not one-sided and harsh. Second,  Elshabasy contends the arbitration provision is one-sided and harsh because it  requires the enforceability of the arbitration provision to be determined by  the arbitrator. (Opp., p. 18:10-19:1.) But such arguments have already been  rejected by Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551,  1570-1571, which Elshabasy fails to address. Third,  Elshabasy maintains the arbitration provision illegally permits Hyundai to  recover attorney fees. (Opp., p. 19:3-20:1.) But Elshabasy’s argument is based  on a strained interpretation of the arbitration provision. Specifically, the  arbitration provision states that “IN ARBITRATION, BOTH YOU AND HYUNDAI WILL BE  ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEYS´ FEES FROM THE OTHER PARTY TO THE SAME EXTENT AS  YOU WOULD BE IN COURT.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(C).) Because the clause ends  with “as you would be in court” as opposed to “as you or Hyundai would be in  court,” Elshabasy maintains this provision allows Hyundai to obtain attorney  fees as if they were the plaintiff. But equally plausible is the fact that  “you” in the second half of the sentence refers to either of the two parties  mentioned in the first half. While  Elshabasy would prefer the interpretation that could render the arbitration  provision void, the rules of contractual interpretation demand the opposite. (Rodriguez  v. Barnett (1959) 52 Cal.2d 154, 160 [“If a contract is capable of two  constructions courts are bound to give such an interpretation as will make it  lawful, operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being carried into  effect, if that can be done without violating the intention of the parties.”].)  Because this clause can be interpreted as merely allowing attorney fees to the  same extent as in court proceedings, the court finds this argument also fails. Fourth  and last, Elshabasy argues the arbitration provision substantially reduces Elshabasy’s  time to bring the present action. (Opp., p. 20:3-15.) Specifically, Elshabasy  points to language stating, “YOU ARE NOT ALLOWED TO BRING ANY CLAIM AGAINST  HYUNDAI (OR ANY OTHER THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARY) MORE THAN ONE YEAR AFTER THE  CLAIM ARISES.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 14(B).) Because the statute of limitations  for an action pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act is four years, this is a  substantial reduction of Elshabasy’s time to bring the present action. (Krieger  v. Nick Alexander Imports, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 205, 213-215 [holding  four-year statute of limitations applies to the Song-Beverly Act].) Courts have  frequently held such reductions are one-sided and unconscionable. (See, e.g.,  Fisher v. MoneyGram Intern., Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1084, 1105; Dennison  v. Rosland Capital LLC (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 204, 212.) Furthermore, this  provision is one-sided and oppressive at it appears to only apply to Elshabasy  and not Hyundai. But  the analysis does not end here. “The final question is whether the  unconscionable provisions warrant a refusal to enforce the entire arbitration  agreement, or whether the offending provisions may be limited or severed to  avoid an unfair result.” (Bakersfield College v. California Community  College Athletic Assn. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 753, 769.) “In deciding  whether to sever terms rather than to preclude enforcement of the provision  altogether, the overarching inquiry is whether the interests of justice would  be furthered by severance; the strong preference is to sever unless the  agreement is “permeated” by unconscionability.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P.  (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 802.) “An agreement to arbitrate is considered ‘permeated’  by unconscionability where it contains more than one unconscionable provision” or  when “‘there is no single provision a court can strike or restrict in order to  remove the unconscionable taint from the agreement.’” (Magno v. The College  Network, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 277, 292, quoting Armendariz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at p. 124-125.) Here,  while the clause significantly limiting Elshabasy’s time to bring an  arbitration claim is unconscionable, Elshabasy failed to establish the  existence of any other unconscionable provisions. As such, the court determines  that the arbitration provision is not otherwise permeated with unconscionability  and the time-limitations clause can be severed from the arbitration provision  in the Bluelink Agreement.  . Accordingly,  the court finds the arbitration provision enforceable and GRANTS Hyundai’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Hyundai’s  motion to compel arbitration of Elshabasy’s  Song-Beverly action is GRANTED.