  Case Number:  23TRCP00246    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                 Wednesday, February 7, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 17
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Singapore Airlines Limited v. CSDS
Aircraft Sales & Leasing, Inc.      
23TRCP00246
1.      CSDS Aircraft Sales & Leasing, Inc.’s Motion for
Leave to File Cross-Complaint    


TENTATIVE RULING
 
            CSDS
Aircraft Sales & Leasing, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
is granted. 
 
Background

 
            Plaintiff filed its Complaint on June 13, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. This is an action for recognition of a foreign
money judgment pursuant to the California Uniform Foreign-Country Money
Judgments Recognition Act (“Act”), CCP § 1713, et. seq. Plaintiff obtained six
money judgments against Defendant in Singapore. The underlying dispute stemmed
from Defendant’s repudiatory breach of a contract for the sale of a Boeing
777-212 aircraft. Defendant filed an Answer on July 18, 2023. The motion to
file Cross-Complaint was filed on October 30, 2023.
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice of Exhibits 1 and 2 is granted pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452(d)
and (f). The request for judicial notice of Exhibit 3 is denied.
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s objection 1 is
sustained. 
 
Motion for
Leave to File Cross-Complaint 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b)(1): “A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable
thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the
cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him. . .” The instant cross-complaint is compulsory since it
“arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.” Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50 states:
“(a)
A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b)
Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a
date for trial.
(c)
A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted
in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”
 
Pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. § 426.50: “A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may
apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such
terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
 
“A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.  A motion to file a cross-complaint at any
time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the
moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.  Factors such as oversight, inadvertence,
neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.”  Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.  Mere
delay in filing the proposed Cross-Complaint is not sufficient to deny a motion
absent substantial injustice and prejudice. 
Foot's Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114
Cal.App.3d 897, 903–904. Actual bad faith must be demonstrated. 
 
Defendant moves for leave to file a Cross-Complaint on
the grounds that the proposed causes of action arise out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as Plaintiff’s
petition, and, thus, the granting of leave to file the cross-complaint is mandatory
pursuant to CCP § 426.10. Defendant contends that the causes of action are
related to the Complaint which seeks to enforce a foreign money judgment. The
Cross-Complaint seeks to invalidate the judgment. 
 
            The interest of justice supports
granting leave to file the Cross-Complaint to allow all disputes between all
parties to be adjudicated in one action. 
There is no showing that moving Defendant acted in bad faith in making
this motion. There is no showing that granting the motion will cause Plaintiff
substantial prejudice and injustice. Instead, Plaintiff’s opposition
essentially consists of attempting to controvert Defendant’s allegations and
arguing that the claims are not legally and/or factually viable – specifically
that they are barred by principles of res judicata. Plaintiff has articulated
potential defenses that may be raised by it as the proposed Cross-Defendant. The
proposed Cross-Defendant will have the opportunity to present a full and
complete defense to the Cross-Complaint.
 
            Plaintiff also argues that the
proposed Cross-Complaint is not compulsory, but, in fact, permissive and does
not arise from the same transactions. However, a review of both the Complaint
and the proposed Cross-Complaint reveals that both pleadings arise from
disputes that arose from the contract entered into by the parties in 2018.
 
Therefore, as there is no showing that Defendant acted
in bad faith in making this motion, Defendant’s motion for leave to file a
Cross-Complaint is granted. 
            
Defendant is directed to file and serve the proposed
Cross-Complaint within five days of this date.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 