  Case Number:  23CHCV02179    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/10/24     Case    Name:  Megan McCormick v. Kinetix    Physical Therapy; Waldo Bote Leoncio; and Does 1-100     Case    # 23CHCV02179      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 10, 2024    DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV02179    Motion  filed: 3/8/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Kinetix Physical Therapy,  Inc. (“Kinetix”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Megan McCormick  (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court granting Kinetix’s Demurrer and striking punitive damages  and prejudgment interest against it in the Prayer for Relief.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is OVERRULED. The Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART without leave to amend.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from allegations of sexual misconduct against  Plaintiff during her physical therapy sessions. The named defendants include  the alleged tortfeasor and his employer, Kinetix, at the time of the alleged  sexual misconduct.    On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against  Defendants Kinetix, Waldo Bote Leoncio (“Leoncio”), and Does 1 through 100.    Subsequently, on February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed her First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in response to Defendant Kinetix’s demurrer filed on October  4, 2023, rendering the October 4, 2023, demurrer moot. The FAC alleges seven  causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2) Gross Negligence; (3) Negligent Hiring,  Supervision, or Retention; (4) Assault; (5) Battery; (6) Sexual Battery; and  (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. Following this, on March 28,  2024, Defendant Leoncio filed his Answer to the FAC.   On March 8, 2024, Defendant Kinetix (“Kinetix” or the “Moving  Defendant”) filed the instant Demurrer with Motion to Strike (the “Demurrer”).               On March 26,  2024, Plaintiff filed her Opposition to Demurrer and Motion to Strike.  Subsequently, the Demurring Defendant replied on April 4, 2024.   ANALYSIS    “It is black letter law that a demurrer tests  the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint” (Lewis v. Safeway,  Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A general demurrer is proper, and typically  used, where the plaintiff fails to allege “facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Cloud v. Northrop  Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004.)   “The  sufficiency of a cause of action is evaluated by presuming all of the material  factual allegations in the complaint are true.” (Aubry v. TriCity Hospital  Dist. (1992) 2 Cal 4th 962, 966 – 967 (Aubry).) In ruling on a  demurrer, a court may consider facts that are properly subject to judicial  notice.” (Arroyo v. Plosay, 225 Cal. App. 4th 279.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the allegations of the complaint must be liberally  construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties. (Glennen  v. Allergan, Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.) Nevertheless, while  "[a] demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded, [it does] not [admit]  contentions, deductions or conclusions of law or fact." (George v.  Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120,  135.) Additionally, “[a] complaint otherwise good on its face is subject to  demurrer when facts judicially noticed render it defective.” (Evans v. City  of Berkeley (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1, 6.)   “It is error for a trial court to sustain a demurrer  when the plaintiff has stated a cause of action under any possible legal  theory. (Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 103.)  And it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend  if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified  by the defendant can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39  Cal.3d at 318.)” Aubry, supra, 2 Cal. 4th 962, 967.)   A.     Meet and  Confer                          A party filing a demurrer “shall  meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading  that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement  can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not  constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc.,  sections 430.41 (a)(4).)   Defendant Kinetix claims  that it made an effort to meet and confer with Plaintiff for the purpose of  avoiding this Demurrer and Motion to Strike. Specifically, Kinetix sent a meet  and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on February 26, 2024, aiming to  discuss the matters outlined in the Demurrer and Motion to Strike. (Kirkpatrick  Decl., ¶ 5, Kim Decl., ¶ 5.) The parties then engaged in a telephonic meet and  confer on March 4, 2024. Following this discussion, Kinetix sent a draft  stipulation on March 6, 2024, proposing to dismiss the attorney fees portion of  Plaintiff’s prayer for relief. Despite this effort, the parties did not reach an  agreement. (Kirkpatrick Decl., ¶¶ 7-9, Kim Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.)    Based on these actions, the  Court concludes that the meet and confer requirements have been sufficiently met.   1.       Notice of  Demurrer   Here, Plaintiff contends  that Defendant’s Notice of Demurrer “fails to state what grounds, if any, the  Moving Party is alleged moving the Court for an order, arguing “A Notice for a  Demurrer in California must distinctly specify the grounds for challenging the  pleading[,]” thus not in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section  430.10, and California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(a). (Opp’n., at p. ii.)   Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides, “The party against  whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or  answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the  following grounds[.]”   Similarly, California Rules of Court rule 3.1320(a) sets  forth “Each ground of demurrer must be in a separate paragraph and must state  whether it applies to the entire complaint, cross-complaint, or answer, or to  specified causes of action or defenses.”   On the contrary, Defendant argues that these two sections  refer to the requirements for the contents of the Demurrer, rather than the  Notice. Specifically, Defendant references to California Rules of Courts rule  3.1320(c) which states, “(c) Notice of hearing[:] A party filing a demurrer  must serve and file therewith a notice of hearing that must specify a hearing  date in accordance with the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 1005  and, if service is by electronic means, in accordance with the requirements of  Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(4) and rule 2.251(h)(2).”   Based on the wording of the Codes and Rules cited by both  parties, the Court agrees with Defendant’s interpretation that requirements for  stating grounds of Demurrer is not mandated for the Notice of the Demurrer.  Plaintiff does not provide other legal authorities to support her position.  Consequently, the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument unpersuasive.    Therefore, the Court concludes that the Demurring Party has  satisfied the notice requirement in accordance with applicable California Rules  of Court rule 3.1320(c).   B.      Demurrer   1.       Notice of  Demurrer   Here, Plaintiff contends  that Defendant’s Notice of Demurrer “fails to state what grounds, if any, the  Moving Party is alleged moving the Court for an order, arguing that “A Notice  for a Demurrer in California must distinctly specify the grounds for  challenging the pleading,” thereby not complying with Code o Civil Procedure  section 430.10, and California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(a). (Opp’n., at p.  ii.)   Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides, “The party against  whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or  answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the  following grounds[.]” Similarly, California Rules of Court rule 3.1320(a) stipulates,  “Each ground of demurrer must be in a separate paragraph and must state whether  it applies to the entire complaint, cross-complaint, or answer, or to specified  causes of action or defenses.”    Contrarily, Defendant posits that these sections address the  requirements for the content of the Demurrer itself, not the Notice. Defendant points  to California Rules of Courts rule 3.1320(c) which states, “(c) Notice of  hearing[:] A party filing a demurrer must serve and file therewith a notice of  hearing that must specify a hearing date in accordance with the provisions of  Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 and, if service is by electronic means, in  accordance with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  1010.6(a)(4) and rule 2.251(h)(2).”   Upon reviewing the cited Codes and Rules of Corut, the Court  agrees with Defendant’s interpretation, determining that requirement to state  the grounds of Demurrer does not extend to the Notice of the Demurrer.  Plaintiff has not presented additional legal authorities to bolster her  position, rendering her argument unconvincing.    Therefore, the Court concludes that the Moving Party has  satisfied the notice requirements as mandated by the applicable California  Rules of Court rule 3.1320(c).   2.       First Cause of  Action - Negligence             “The elements of a cause of  action for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Melton v.  Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 529). “Negligence may be generally  pleaded, but there are limits to the generality with which the plaintiff is  allowed to state a cause of action. The complaint must indicate the acts or  omissions which the plaintiff claims were negligently performed.” (Quelimane  Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 60.). Here, the FAC details pertinent  facts, including that Plaintiff was sent to the Moving Defendant, Kinetix, for  physical therapy due to a work-related injury (Compl., ¶ 1); that Plaintiff was  not informed by Kinetix of Defendant Leoncio’s lack of licensure as required by the State of California (Ibid); that Kinetix  misrepresented Leoncio as a licensed therapist (Id., ¶ 4); and  that Kinetix either knew of should have known of the licensure status of  Leoncio through a pre-employment background check (Id., ¶ 8).  Furthermore, the FAC alleges that after several  sessions of treatment by Leoncio, which were approved and ratified by Kinetix,  a female staff member reported the Leoncio‘s inappropriate physical contact to  management. (Id., ¶ 9.) This misconduct led to the Plaintiff being unable  to continue her physical therapy and needed some time off due to the emotional  distress it caused. (Id., ¶ 11.)   Kinetix maintains that Leoncio was hired not as a  licensed therapist but an aide, which does not require him to be licensed.  (Dem., at 2.) However, this contention, when assessed alone, only amounts to a  dispute over a pleaded fact. Consequently, this contention is not considered by  the Court at the demurrer stage. Courts assess the sufficiency of a cause of  action by presuming the truth of all material factual allegations, (see Aubry,  supra, 2 Cal 4th at 966-967), making this argument irrelevant.   Additionally, Kinetix makes an incomplete argument that  Plaintiff’s FAC provides insufficient facts due to alleged contradictory  pleadings (Dem, at 2, 6), specifically that Plaintiff was made aware by staff  that Leoncio was an aide and not a physical therapist. However, this does not inherently  contradict or invalidate other allegations that Leoncio was presented as a  licensed therapist by Kinetix. The FAC articulates that it was only after  several treatment sessions and a subsequent staff intervention that Plaintiff was  informed of Leoncio’s actual status, which does not demonstrate contradictory  pleading. (FAC., ¶¶ 9, 15).    Furthermore, Kinetix’s assertion that their later  contemplation of terminating Leoncio for his inappropriate behavior contradicts  the allegation of ratification of Leoncio’s action is unfounded. The FAC  clearly states that Kinetix informed Plaintiff about their plan to terminate Leoncio  after the alleged misconduct and multiple sessions for which the FAC pleads that  Kinetix “ratified, accepted benefits of, condoned, lauded, acquiesced,  authorized, and otherwise approved” these prior actions. (Compl., ¶ 7.)    The argument also fails to address the possibility of  stating a cause of action under any legal theory, as is outlined in Barquis  v. Merchants Collection Assn, supra, 7 Cal.3d at 103, “[I]T is error  for a trial court to sustain a demurrer when the plaintiff has stated a cause  of action under any possible legal theory.”    The FAC alleges  Kinetix’s breach of duty through multiple negligent actions, including  misrepresentation of Leoncio’s qualifications, and failure to take any steps to  investigate or to remove Leoncio from the position, which suffices to plead a  cause of action for negligence.     Consequently, the Court concludes the FAC has  sufficiently pleaded the cause of action for negligence. Therefore, the Court  OVERRULES the Demurrer as the first cause of action.    3.       Second Cause of  Action – Gross Negligence California law does not  recognize an independent cause of action for gross negligence. Rather, gross  negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of negligence: duty,  breach, causation, and damages. To set forth a claim for “gross negligence” the  plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving either “want of  even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of  conduct.” Gross negligence connotes such a lack of care as may be presumed to  indicate a passive and indifferent attitude toward results. (Chavez v. 24  Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640 [quotations/citation omitted].) Whether  conduct constitutes gross negligence is generally a question of fact, depending  on the nature of the act and the surrounding circumstances shown by the  evidence – i.e., whether the conduct could  be found to constitute gross negligence. (Jimenez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA,  Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 555.)    Given the Court’s previous  conclusion that Plaintiff has sufficient pleaded a cause of action for  negligence, it now considers the additional allegations pertinent to gross  negligence.    Here, Plaintiff alleges that  Defendant Kinetix neglected to the state mandate for physical therapists to be  licensed (Compl., ¶¶ 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 13-17); failed to mitigate the  unreasonable risk of harm from its employee required to be registered as a sex  offender; (Id., ¶ 20), and made material misrepresentation to the public  (Ibid.)   Kinetix does not deny that  it had legal obligations under California Business and Professions Code to verify  the licensure of physical therapists, it argues, however, that the FAC does not  specify the applicable section of the Business and Professional code. (Reply,  at 2.) Furthermore, Kinetix maintains that at the time of or prior to  Plaintiff’s allegations, Leoncio was not a sex offender and was hired as an  aide not a therapist. (Dem., at 6-7.)   In reviewing a demurrer, the  Court must consider the facts pleaded in the complaint, assuming their truth  and interpret them liberally, in addition to facts subject to judicial notice.  (See Arroyo v. Plosay, Supra; Glennen v. Allergan, Inc, Supra.) Consequently,  the Court finds that the omission of a specific section of the Business and  Professions Code in the FAC does not justify sustaining a demurrer. Moreover, the  Court does not evaluate additional or disputed facts not presented in the FAC  or in judicial notice.     Therefore, the Demurrer does not persuasively  demonstrate that the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause  of action for gross negligence.   The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer with respect to the  second cause of action.   4.       Third Cause of  Action – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention   In  California, an employer may be liable to a third party for negligently hiring or  retaining  an unfit employee. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church  (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836.) Negligent hiring/retention is a theory of direct liability—not  vicarious liability. (J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New  York, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1163.)   A negligent hiring, supervision,  or retention cause of action requires the following elements: (1) the  employer’s hiring, supervising, or retention of an employee; (2) the employee’s  incompetence or unfitness; (3) the employer’s knowledge or reason to believe that  undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) the occurrence  of harm related to the employee’s incompetence or unfitness. (Federico v.  Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214; Doe v. Capital  Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054, 1055 [“[t]he cornerstone of a  negligent hiring theory is the risk that the employee will act in a certain way  and the employee does act in that way. Plaintiff has failed to allege those  necessary facts.”].)   “Liability for negligent hiring  ... is based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with  characteristics which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the  enterprise should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or  unfit employees.” (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church, supra.)  Liability for negligent ... retention of an employee is one of direct liability  for negligence, not vicarious liability. (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies,  Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.) (See CACI 426.) Here, the FAC avers that  Kinetix hired Leoncio (Compl., ¶ 27), who was incompetent or unfit for his role  due to lacking license as required by state law and due to his status as a  registered sexual offender (Compl., ¶ 28.) Moreover, it further alleges that Kinetix  should know or would have discovered Leoncio’s status if a pre-employment  background check was performed. (Ibid.) Furthermore, Plaintiff alleges  facts to have been sexually harassed by Leoncio. (Id., ¶¶ 2, 9, 14, 15,  21.)   Kinetix argues that it could  not have known that Leoncio was a sex offender at his time of hire, as he was  not a sex offender then. (Dem. at 8.) While Kinetix concedes the hiring of  Leoncio, fulfilling the first element of the cause of action, the Court,  adhering to the standard applicable to demurrer review, does not consider  Kinetix’s contention regarding Leoncio’s status. The review process requires  assuming the truth of the complaint’s factual allegations and does not permit  evaluation of contested facts not evident from the face of the complaint.     Accordingly, the Court  concludes that the FAC sufficiently pleads the third cause of action,  OVERRULING the Demurrer.   5.       Seventh Cause  of Action – Negligence Infliction of Emotional Distress   The  doctrine of “negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED)” is not a  separate tort or cause of action. It simply allows certain persons to recover  damages for emotional distress only on a negligence cause of action even though  they were not otherwise injured or harmed. (See Molien v. Kaiser Foundation  Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 928.)   Here, Kinetix challenges the  sufficiency of the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff does not qualify as a  direct victim of Kinetix’s action, nor does she meet the criteria for a bystander  under the NIED doctrine. (Dem. at 10, Reply, at 4.)   However, Plaintiff’s claims  for Negligence, Gross Negligence, and Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and  Retention aim to establish direct liability actions against Kinetix. The FAC  has already been found to contain adequate factual allegations to support these  causes of action. Given that NIED facilitates the recovery of damages for  emotional distress within the framework of these established negligence claims,  Defendant’s argument – that Plaintiff was not a direct victim – without further  legal substantiation, essentially presents an unsupported conclusion rather  than a factual or legal analysis.   Consequently, considering  the established principles surrounding NIED and the sufficient pleadings  presented in the FAC, the Court finds the argument presented by Kinetix to be  without merit.  Therefore, the Court  OVERRULES the Demurrer regarding the seventh cause of action.      6.       Fourth, Fifth,  and Six Causes of Action – Battery, Assault, Sexual Battery   Kinetix argues that it  cannot be held liable for Assault, Battery, and Sexual Battery, under the  doctrine of respondeat superior, citing case law to support its position.  (Dem., at 9.)    In her Opposition, Plaintiff  points out that these causes of action are levied against Leoncio exclusively,  not Kinetix, thereby rendering Kinetix’s argument irrelevant. (Opp’n., at 10.) In  response, Kinetix acknowledges this clarification, states to provide no further  argument, contingent on Plaintiff’s assertion being accurate. (Reply, at 4.)   Upon review, the Court notes  that the operative FAC evidently does not allege against Kinetix for these  three causes of actions. Therefore, the Court deems Kinetix’s initial argument  pertaining to these actions moot.   C.     Motion to  Strike   "The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,  or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.  (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 ["Matter  in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative  facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded"].) The court  may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one  that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither  pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a  demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the  complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)    Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear  and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,  fraud, or malice.  (Code Civ. Procs., §  3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct  intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable  conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the  rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code,  § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  “‘Punitive  damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme  indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should  not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North (2006) 135  Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)      “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section  3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’  requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’  interests.  The additional component of  ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College  Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  The statute’s reference to despicable conduct  represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (Ibid.)   Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible,  miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised  by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct  has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated  with crime.’”  (Tomaselli v.  Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that  defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to  plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v.  Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)   A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted  where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages,  including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or  malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of  Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence,  is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California  Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) (Underlines added.) Moreover, conclusory  allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73  Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)   1.       Notice of  Motion to Strike   “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading  may serve and file a notice to strike the whole or any part thereof[.]” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435, subd., (b)(1).)   California Rules of Court rule 3.1322 (a) provides that “[a]  notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote in full the  portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire  paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must  be numbered consecutively.”               Here,  Kinetix’s Notice of Motion (the “Notice”) states, “Defendant specifically  requests that the Court strike all requests for punitive damages. Statutory  authority for this motion lies in Code of Civil Procedure section 435.”  (Kinetix’s Notice of Motion, at 2.) Notably, the Notice does not quote in full  the portion sought to be stricken, nor does it number the specification  consecutively.  Given these omissions, the  Court interprets the Motion as one to “strike an entire paragraph, cause of  action, count, or defense,” in line with California Rules of Court rule  3.1322(a).               The FAC makes  one singular request for punitive damage, under paragraph 2 of the Prayer for  Relief. (FAC, at 11.) The Court’s review does not extend to arguments  pertaining to other paragraphs within the FAC, as they do not comply with the  notice requirements stipulated by the Rules of Court.    2.       Punitive  Damages   “[T]he imposition of punitive  damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault.¿ It is not imposed  vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.”¿ (City Products Corp. v.  Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal  entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent  to injure or deceive.¿ An award of punitive damages against a corporation  therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.¿ But the law  does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.¿ Instead, the  punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the  officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v. Home Base  (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167.) (Citations omitted and quotations  omitted.)¿     Plaintiff argues that the  Defendant Kinetix fails to read the FAC as a whole, which purportedly provides  sufficient factual basis for punitive damages in the prayer. (Opp’n., at 2.)   Although the Court has previously  found that the FAC sufficiently outlines direct liability causes of action  against Kinetix, it notes an absence of specific allegations detailing malice,  fraud, or oppression by Kinetix’s officers, directors, or managing agents. The  allegations lie in negligence, gross negligence, negligent hiring, supervision,  and retention, and include a uniform paragraph across these causes of  action. It alleges, “Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon  alleges that the outrageous conduct of Defendants described above was done with  malice, fraud, and oppression and with conscious disregard for her rights and  with the intent, design, and purpose of injuring her. Defendants, through its  officers, managing agents and/or its supervisors, authorized, condoned and/or  ratified the unlawful conduct of all of the other Defendants named in this  action. By reason thereof, Plaintiff is entitled to punitive or exemplary  damages from all Defendants in a sum according to proof at trial. By reason  thereof, Plaintiff is entitled to punitive or exemplary damage in sum be  determined at trial.” (FAC, ¶ 17, 24, 31.)      However,  the Court concludes that these allegations, while aimed at establishing the  grounds for punitive damages, do not meet the required threshold to  substantiate claims of malice, fraud, or oppression. Referencing Kendall  Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank, supra, the Court emphasizes  that mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such  an award for punitive damages. Furthermore, the Court finds the paragraphs  asserting malice, fraud, and oppression, to be conclusory, lacking factual  basis to support such claims.    3.       Leave to Amend   The  burden is on the plaintiff to show in what manner he or she can amend the  complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the  pleading.  (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723,  742.)     Here,  Plaintiff has not sought leave to amend. Despite previously filing the FAC in  response to Defendant’s October 4, 2023, Demurrer with Motion to Strike – which  rendered the initial demurrer moot – the FAC still does not adequately allege  facts that would support a claim for punitive damages against Defendant Kinetix.  Therefore, the Court finds there is no reasonable possibility that this  deficiency in the FAC can be cured.    Accordingly,  the Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION   Defendant  Kinetix Physical Therapy’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendant to file an answer within ten days.    Defendant  Kinetix Physical Therapy’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART, without leave  to amend.   The  Court specifically strikes the request “For exemplary and punitive damages  according to proof” as to Defendant Kinetix Physical Therapy.    Moving party to give notice