 Case Number:  22STLC05890    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  26   
St.
Julian v. Reece, et al.MOTION TO
VACATE DISMISSAL AND APPOINT SUCCESSOR
(CCP §§ 473(b) and
377.10, et seq.))
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Third parties Winston St. Julian,
Jr. and Corey St. Julian’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal and Appoint Successor is CONTINUED
TO AUGUST 20, 2024 AT 10:00 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET
COURTHOUSE. BY JULY 29, 2024, MOVING PARTIES ARE TO FILE SUPPLEMENTAL
DECLARATIONS CORRECTING THE DEFECTS NOTED HEREIN.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On September 9, 2022, Plaintiff Winston
St. Julian (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against Defendant Michael
Reece (“Defendant”). The action came for trial on March 8, 2024, at which time
Plaintiff failed to appear and the Court dismissed the action without
prejudice. (Minute Order, 03/08/24.) 
 
Third-parties Winston St.
Julian, Jr. and Corey Winston St. Julian (“Moving Parties”) filed the instant Motion to Vacate
Dismissal and Appoint Successor on April 3, 2024. No opposition to the Motion
has been filed to date, nor has proof of service of the Summons and
Complaint been filed.  
 
Discussion
 
The request to vacate
dismissal is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 473,
subdivision (b). Under this statute, an application for
relief must be made no more than six months after entry of the order from which
relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the
moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b); English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
130, 143.) When based on attorney fault with respect to entry of default,
default judgment, or involuntary dismissal, a timely request for relief must be
granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) When brought pursuant to the
provision for discretionary relief based on party fault, the request must have
been filed within a reasonable amount of time. 
 
The motion was timely filed less
than one month after dismissal of the action and is supported by an attorney
affidavit of fault. Plaintiff’s counsel declares that they inadvertently failed
to calendar the trial date. (Motion, Bagdassarian Decl., ¶¶2-3.) Therefore, the
case must be reinstated under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b). 
 
The request to
appoint Moving Parties as Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest is brought pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure, section 377.3, which states, “[o]n motion after the
death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow
a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)
 
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 377.11 defines “successor-in-interest” as “the beneficiary
of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause
of action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Under Code of Civil Procedure,
section 377.32:
 
(a)
The person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a
pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this
article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of
perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:
 
(1)
The decedent’s name.
(2) The date and place of the decedent's
death.
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent's estate.”
(4)
If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing
the distribution of the decedent's cause of action to the successor in
interest.
(5)
Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
 
(A)
“The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to
the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
(B)
“The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
 
(6)
“No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or
to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
 
(7)
“The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under
the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”
 
(b)
Where more than one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this
section, the statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as
appropriate to reflect that fact.
 
(c)
A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the
affidavit or declaration.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
377.32.)
 
The Motion is
supported by the declarations of both Moving Parties, to which is attached a
certified copy of the death certificate. (Motion, St. Julian, Jr. Decl., Exh. A;
St. Julian Decl., Exh. A.) The declarations set forth some but not all of the
information required by Code of Civil Procedure, section 377.32.
 
The declaration
states Plaintiff’s name, place of death, and that “no proceeding is now pending
in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.” (Id. at ¶¶2-5.)
They also declare that there has been no administration of Plaintiff’s estate
and that they are Plaintiff’s biological sons. (Id. at ¶¶5-6.) Finally, Moving
Parties declare they are Plaintiff’s successor in interest, as set forth in
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.11. (Id. at ¶6.) Section 377.11
defines successor in interest as the “beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or
other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a
particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Neither declaration, however, set forth supporting
facts to show that Moving Parties are the beneficiaries of Plaintiff’s estate
or that they succeed to a cause of action or to a particular item of the
property that is the subject of a cause of action. 
 
The supporting
declarations, therefore, do not comply with the statutory requirements set
forth above. The request for appointment as Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest
is continued.

 
Conclusion
 
Third parties Winston
St. Julian, Jr. and Corey St. Julian’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal and Appoint
Successor is CONTINUED TO AUGUST 20, 2024 AT 10:00 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE
SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. BY JULY 29, 2024, MOVING PARTIES ARE TO FILE
SUPPLEMENTAL DECLARATIONS CORRECTING THE DEFECTS NOTED HEREIN.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice.
 
 
 
 