 Case Number:  23AHCV02118    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RAFFI PILILIAN, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CVS
   PHARMACY, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02118
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER FILED BY GARFIELD BEACH CVS, L.L.C.
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 8,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On September
13, 2023, plaintiffs Raffi Pililian (“Raffi”), Laura Pililian (“Laura”), and
Leia Pililian (“Leia”, collectively, with Raffi and Laura, “Plaintiffs”) filed
this action against Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C. (“Defendant”). The action arises
from personal injuries sustained by Raffi in the presence of his wife, Laura,
and his minor daughter, Leia, on September 15, 2021. Plaintiffs allege they
were on Defendant’s premises when Raffi received a COVID-19 vaccine booster
injection. (Compl., ¶ 19.) After the injection, Raffi was instructed to sit in
a designated area for 10 to 15 minutes, which was designated for patrons
receiving any type of injections, including COVID-19 vaccine booster shots, before
leaving the premises. (Ibid.) Raffi became dizzy and attempted to stand
but fainted within this area and fell face first onto the protruding arms of
the merchandise stand, which was made of metal. Plaintiffs assert claims for
negligence and premises liability based on the negligent placement of the
chocolate merchandise stand next to the seats in the area. Laura and Leila
assert a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”)
and allege that they suffered emotional distress; in addition, Laura suffered
pregnancy complications due to stress caused by Raffi’s injuries. (Compl., ¶¶
19-20.) Laura also asserts a claim for loss of consortium. (Comp. ¶¶ 42-44.) 
          On
March 25, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer to each cause of action within
the Complaint. Plaintiffs filed their opposition brief on April 25, 2024.
Defendant filed its reply brief on May 1, 2024. 
          Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the declaration of the United States
Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar invoking the PREP Act for the
COVID-19 pandemic (Declaration Under the Public Readiness and Emergency
Preparedness Act for Medical Countermeasures Against COVID-19, 85 FR 15198-01) and
subsequent amendments to the declaration. Defendant also requests judicial
notice of an advisory opinion issued by the Office of the General Counsel on
the application of the PREP Act. The request is GRANTED. 
          Plaintiffs
request the Court take judicial notice of court records in this proceeding and those
from the United States District Court Central District of California under case
number 2:23-cv-09923-CBM-JC after Defendant removed this suit to federal court.
The request is GRANTED. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          Defendant
argues that the Complaint must be dismissed because the injuries arise from the
administration of a COVID-19 vaccine, which is preempted by the Public
Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 247d-6d, 247d-6e (the
“PREP Act”). Defendant argues that the PREP Act only allows Plaintiffs to
litigate claims for willful misconduct in the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia, therefore this action should be dismissed. 
The PREP Act states, in relevant part: “[A]
covered person shall be immune from suit and liability under Federal and State
law with respect to claims for loss caused by, arising out of, relating to, or
resulting from the administration to or the use by an individual of a covered
countermeasure if a declaration under subsection (b) has been issued with
respect to such countermeasure.” (42 U.S.C. § 247d-6d(a)(1).) “The immunity
under paragraph (1) applies to any claim for loss that has a causal
relationship with the administration to or use by an individual of a covered
countermeasure, including a causal relationship with the design, development,
clinical testing or investigation, manufacture, labeling, distribution,
formulation, packaging, marketing, promotion, sale, purchase, donation,
dispensing, prescribing, administration, licensing, or use of such
countermeasure.” (42 U.S.C.A. §247d-6d(a)(2)(B).) In the March 10 Declaration, the Secretary of the Department of
Health and Human Services defined “Administration of a Covered Countermeasure”
as the “physical provision of the countermeasures to recipients, or activities
and decisions directly relating to public and private delivery, distribution,
and dispensing of the countermeasures to recipients; management and operation
of countermeasure programs; or management and operation of locations for
purpose of distributing and dispensing countermeasures.” (Def.’s RJN, Ex. 1, section
IX.) Thus, the “administration” of a countermeasure included vaccinations and
to activities related to the management and operation of programs and locations
for providing those vaccinations, such as “decisions and actions involving
security and queuing, but only insofar as those activities directly relate to
the countermeasure activities.” (Ibid.) The Secretary clarified that the
PREP Act “precludes a liability claim relating to the management and operation
of a countermeasure distribution program or site, such as a slip-and-fall
injury or vehicle collision by a recipient receiving a countermeasure at a
retail store or dispensing location that alleges, for example, lax security or
chaotic crowd control. However, a liability claim alleging an injury occurring
at the site that was not directly related to the countermeasure activities is
not covered, such as a slip and fall with no direct connection to the
countermeasure’s administration or use. In each case, whether immunity is
applicable will depend on the particular facts and circumstances.” (Ibid.)

Defendant relies on Storment v.
Walgreen, Co. (D.N.M., July 27, 2022, No. 1:21-CV-00898 MIS/CG) 2022 WL
2966607, in which the plaintiff suffered similar injuries after she fell in a
parking lot after receiving the COVID-19 vaccine. The store did not have any
chairs so the plaintiff was advised to walk around the store or go sit in her
car for 15 minutes to make sure she felt all right after the shot. (2022 WL
2966607 at *1.) The plaintiff felt a little dizzy and decided to look around
the store for somewhere to sit. (Ibid.) She could not find a place and
went to her car. (Ibid.) However, when she arrived at her car, she
became so dizzy that she fell before she could get seated. (Ibid.) She fell
on her elbow, which was fractured in multiple locations, and required surgery.
(Ibid.) The district court dismissed the suit and rejected the
plaintiff’s argument that the PREP Act should not apply because her injury
could have happened regardless of whether she received a COVID-19 vaccine. The
court stated that the chain of events leading to the plaintiff’s elbow fracture
was “unfortunate and certainly deserving of a remedy, but it cannot be divorced
from the administration of a covered countermeasure – the COVID-19 vaccine she
received.” (Id. at * 3.) Even if any other vaccination or medical
procedure might leave customers dizzy, the district court emphasized that in
this case, the plaintiff’s injuries “actually resulted from administration of
the COVID-19 vaccine.”  
Plaintiffs argue that the PREP Act does
not apply because their claims are based on a theory of premises liability and
arise from a dangerous condition on Defendant’s premises, not the
administration of the COVID-19 vaccine. It is true that Plaintiffs allege, in part, that Raffi fainted in a waiting area and was
injured by a dangerous condition. (Compl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs also claim that
Raffi fainted due to vasovagal syncope caused by the stress of the “needle
injection.” However, the “needle
injection” Raffi received was the COVID-19 vaccine booster and Plaintiffs
allege that this injection was the precipitating event to Raffi’s vasovagal syncope.
Therefore, a causal relationship exists between the provision of the
countermeasure and the alleged injuries and, like in Storment, Plaintiffs’
injuries cannot be “divorced” from the administration of the COVID-19 booster
shot. Accordingly, the PREP Act applies and Defendant is immune from liability
in state court. 
Plaintiffs
also argue that Defendant is barred from arguing that the PREP Act applies
because the issue was already ruled on by the district court when it issued its
order remanding the case to state court. But as stated in the order attached as
Exhibit 6 to Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice, the district court did
not rule on the applicability of the PREP Act, but rather whether it was a
complete preemption statute and thus provided a basis for federal subject
matter jurisdiction over Plaintiffs’ state law claims. (Ex. 6, p. 3.) The
federal district court held that Defendant’s potential immunity defense under
the PREP Act “is not a substantial federal issue necessarily raised by
Plaintiffs’ state law claimed” and that removal to federal court was improper.
(Ibid.) 
          Plaintiffs additionally
argue that even if the PREP Act were applicable, the Department of Health and
Human Services has published opinions that vasovagal syncope is not a symptom
“associated with” vaccines. (Opp., p. 8.) Plaintiffs cite to the Department’s
declaration which discussed changes to the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program
(“VICP”) and concluded that vasovagal claims are not associated with vaccines or
their components. The citation to a different statutory scheme is not
persuasive because vasovagal syncope is explicitly included as a “covered
injury” for the “Countermeasures Injury Compensation Program” (“CICP”) which is
set up as part of the PREP Act. The CICP includes a table which lists and
explains injuries that are presumed to be caused by a covered countermeasure,
and the time periods in which the onset of these injuries must occur after
administration or use of the covered countermeasure. If an injury occurred
within the listed time periods, and the level of severity required, there is a
rebuttable presumption that the covered countermeasure was the cause of the
injury. 
Because Plaintiffs’ claims all arise
from Raffi’s injuries which were caused by the COVID-19 vaccine shot, they are
all barred by the PREP Act. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 8th
day of May
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 