 Case Number:  20STCV32939    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 27, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV32939




MOTION 


Motions to Enforce Settlement Agreement



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants Santiago Nuno, Rosario Nuno, Consuelo Razo, Teresa
Bojorquez, Arnulfo Nuno, Reynalda Nuno, Maria Hernandez, Jesse Nuno, and Oscar
Nuno (“Plaintiffs”) move to enforce a settlement agreement with Defendant Francisco
Noyola (“Defendant”).  Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s
motion and has filed a competing motion to enforce the settlement
agreement.  Plaintiffs oppose that
motion.
 
ANALYSIS
 “If parties to pending litigation stipulate,
in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6.)  In ruling on a motion to enter judgment, the Court
acts as a trier of fact.  First, the court
must determine whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.
 To do so, the Court may receive oral
testimony in addition to declarations.  (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby, Inc. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)
In the settlement
agreement, the parties agreed the real property at issue in the case would be appraised
and Defendant would transfer the property to Plaintiffs for ten percent of its fair
market value, or $75,500.  Plaintiffs
agreed to Defendant would have 60 days to provide substantiation for
Defendant’s claim she paid $170,976.18 to satisfy an encumbrance on the
property, and she should be reimbursed that amount.  Defendant failed to provide such
documentation.  As such, Plaintiffs
desire to proceed with the sale and to open escrow, and   Defendant has not cooperated in that regard.  (See Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron.)  
The agreement provides,
“Defendant shall have 60 days to supply Plaintiffs with her documents in
support of this claim.”  (See Shafron Declaration,
Exhibit A.)  The agreement further
provides if Defendant substantiates the claim, Plaintiffs will reimburse
Defendant “in addition to the payout” of ten percent of the fair market
value.  (Ibid.)  Defendant contends, taken together, these
clauses are to be interpreted to mean Defendant had 60 days from the
determination of the fair market value of the property to provide
substantiation for her reimbursement claim. 
However, nothing in the contract language reflects this is an accurate
reading of the agreement’s terms.  
“A contract must
be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as
it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.)  Additionally,
“[t]he words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and popular
sense . . . .”  (Civ. Code, § 1644.)  
The agreement does
not expressly state the 60-day period for Defendant to substantiate her
entitlement to $170,976.18 was to begin to run after the fair market value of
the property was determined.  Defendant does
not point to anything in the agreement that supports her contention.  In fact, there is nothing in the agreement to
suggest the parties tied Defendant’s substantiation to any other occurrence noted
in the agreement, such as approval of a title report, the opening or closing of
escrow, Defendant providing rent rolls.  Moreover,
Defendant’s entitlement to and substantiation of the $170,976.18 amount is in a
stand-alone paragraph.  Under these
circumstances, the most sensible and logical interpretation of the subject
terms is that the 60-day substantiation period was to commence upon the parties’
execution of the agreement. As such, Defendant missed the deadline to
substantiate her claim.  
Plaintiffs’ motion
to enforce the settlement agreement, in keeping with this court’s ruling, is
granted. Defendant’s motion to enforce the settlement in the matter Defendant requests is denied.  Under the circumstances, Plaintiffs’ request
for attorney fees is denied.  
Plaintiffs are to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.