  Case Number:  20STCV20365    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June
  27, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV20365




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  NuScience Corporation and Martin Miranda




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Francisca Orozco



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Francisca
Orozco (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants NuScience Corporation (“NuScience”) and
Martin Miranda (“Miranda”) alleging disability discrimination.  Plaintiff contends Defendants did not
accommodate her for her disability. 
Defendants move for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative complaint,
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the causes of action
therein.  
Defendants have
not repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts
each issue on which Defendants seek summary adjudication and identified each
supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to each
issue.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b)
& (d).) Accordingly, the court denies the motion for summary adjudication
as procedurally improper. “There is little flexibility in the procedural
imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 437c], and the issues raised by
a motion for summary judgment (or summary adjudication) are pure questions of
law.  As a result, section 437c is
unforgiving; a failure to comply with any one of its myriad requirements is
likely to be fatal to the offending party.”  (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.)  Therefore, the court
treats the motion solely as one for summary judgment.  
After Defendants
filed this motion, Plaintiff dismissed the third and fifth causes of
action alleging retaliation.  The motion is thus moot as to
those claims.  
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.) 
EVIDENCE
Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s
in opposition to the motion are overruled.
DISCUSSION
First cause of action:
Discrimination
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for discrimination under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (FEHA) against NuScience.  To
state a claim for discrimination under FEHA, the employee must demonstrate “(1)
the employee's membership in a classification protected by the statute; (2)
discriminatory animus on the part of the employer toward members of that
classification; (3) an action by the employer adverse to the employee's
interests; (4) a causal link between the discriminatory animus and the adverse
action; (5) damage to the employee; and (6) a causal link between the adverse
action and the damage.”  (Mamou v.
Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  “A defending employer seeking summary
judgment in a discrimination case may meet its burden by showing that one or
more of these prima facie elements is lacking, or that the adverse employment
action was based on legitimate nondiscriminatory factors.  [¶]  If
the employer has met its burden by showing a legitimate reason for its conduct,
the employee must demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial evidence
that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or pretextual, or that the
employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such that a reasonable trier of
fact could conclude that the employer engaged in intentional discrimination or
other unlawful action.”  (Cucuzza v.
City of Santa Clara (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038, internal citation
omitted.)  
As Plaintiff’s
employer, NuScience had to reasonably accommodate any of Plaintiff’s known
disabilities to enable Plaintiff to perform the essential functions of her job,
unless doing so would produce undue hardship to the employer's operations.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m); 2 Cal. Code Regs.,
§ 11068, subd. (a).)  In her complaint,
Plaintiff alleges “on or around June 14, 2019, Plaintiff was diagnosed with
carpel tunnel syndrome.  This also caused
the major life activity of working to be more difficult, thus constituting a
disability.  Shortly thereafter, on or
about June 17, 2019, Plaintiff provided further notice of her disability to
Defendant by describing the excruciating pain in her hand.  Defendant refused to provide any accommodation
to Plaintiff in the form of light duty work or medical treatment to recover.  Instead, Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s
employment purportedly because Plaintiff had filed a claim for workers’
compensation benefits to seek treatment for her afore-mentioned injuries.”  (Complaint, ¶ 22.)  
Defendant asserts Plaintiff
testified at her deposition NuScience never denied Plaintiff’s requests to take
time off for medical attention (Appendix of Exhibits in Support of Motion for
Summary Judgment (Appendix), Exhibit B, p. 73, Exhibit C, pp. 51-52, 168-169); she
did not ask for any accommodations from NuScience, nor did she tell anyone at
NuScience she could not perform her job duties; she did not tell any manager or
supervisor at NuScience she was having difficulty performing her job duties (id.,
Exhibit C, pp. 167-168);  a doctor who
treated her at the High Desert Regional Health Center Urgent Care advised her
to notify her work supervisor she should not repetitively peel labels off
bottles because Plaintiff had carpal tunnel syndrome (id., Exhibit C,
pp. 174-181); on June 17, 2019, she notified Miranda she should not peel labels
off bottles;  Miranda instructed
Plaintiff not to do any work on that date; she left NuScience and did not
return (id., Exhibit C, pp. 184-186); she had already resigned from NuScience
on June 5, 2019, informed NuScience that her last day would be June 19, 2019 (id.,
Exhibit C, pp. 126-131); and when she left work on June 17, 2019, she was
confused about her status (id., Exhibit C, p. 216).
Defendant also presents
the testimony of Joy Cagle (“Cagle”), its chief financial officer.  Cagle testified that on June 17, 2019, she
informed Plaintiff she needed to go to a workers’ compensation clinic and gave
Plaintiff information concerning it (Appendix, supra, Exhibit F, pp.
31-33); she expected NuScience would hear back from Plaintiff, but NuScience
never did; and NuScience, therefore, processed Plaintiff’s final paycheck,
given her resignation date of June 19, 2019 
(Exhibit F, pp. 60-61; see also Exhibit G, p. 111).  
Through such evidence,
Defendants meet their burden of demonstrating Plaintiff cannot prevail on her
claim for disability discrimination because NuScience was not aware of
Plaintiff’s disability until June 17, 2019, when Plaintiff left work and never
returned.  Accordingly, NuScience could not
have taken any discriminatory actions towards Plaintiff because of her disability,
nor did it have an opportunity to accommodate such disability.  Defendants, therefore, shifted the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of fact as to whether NuScience discriminated
against her because of her disability.
In opposition,
Plaintiff submits only her own declaration. 
In that declaration, Plaintiff does not address her claim for
discrimination; rather she focused on her harassment claim.  Plaintiff has failed to raise triable issues
of material fact as to whether NuScience discriminated against her.  However, as set forth below, Defendants fail
to meet their burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for
harassment.  The Court, therefore, must
deny the motion for summary judgment.
Second cause of action:
Harassment
To state a claim
for hostile work environment harassment, Plaintiff must allege Defendant
engaged in severe or pervasive harassment that unreasonably interfered with
Plaintiff’s work performance.  (Thompson
v. City Of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 877.)  Plaintiff alleges, “In or around October 2017,
[NuScience] hired Defendant Miranda as a Warehouse Supervisor.  Beginning in or around November 2017 Defendant
Miranda made sexually explicit comments to Plaintiff regarding several of
Plaintiff’s colleagues.  Plaintiff
informed Defendant Miranda that these comments were unwelcome and had to stop.  Defendant Miranda refused.  In the weeks and months that followed,
Defendant Miranda continued and escalated his harassing behavior.  Thereafter, on a regular basis, until
Plaintiff’s wrongful termination, Defendant Miranda would share sexually
explicit stories, pictures, and comments with Plaintiff.  Plaintiff continued to regularly express her
discomfort and distaste regarding Mr. [Miranda’s] behavior and regularly asked
him to stop. Defendant Miranda repeatedly refused to do so.”  (Complaint, ¶ 19.)
Defendants counter
these allegations by again pointing to Plaintiff’s deposition testimony wherein
Plaintiff stated 80 percent of NuScience’s staff engaged in vulgar jokes and
conversations at work during Plaintiff’s employment (Appendix, supra, Exhibit
D, p. 118);  in the lunchroom at work, Miranda
showed Plaintiff an online animation of Donald Trump’s (id., Exhibit D,
p. 115);  Miranda would make suggestive
remarks about bananas to co-workers while Miranda was at his desk (id., Exhibit
D, pp. 119-120, 124-125, 128);  Miranda
initiated conversations with Plaintiff regarding co-workers’ sexual
relationships (id., Exhibit D, pp. 131-137); Miranda commented on a
co-worker’s breasts to Plaintiff (id., Exhibit D, pp. 138-139); Miranda’s
conduct made her “very uncomfortable . . . .” (id., Exhibit D, p. 141,
see also p. 132); and Miranda’s conduct, as Plaintiff’s supervisor, impacted
Plaintiff’s employment because such conduct prevented Plaintiff from raising
concerns about her work with him (id., Exhibit D, p. 127.)  
Defendants
cite Sheffield v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Social Services (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 153, which is not on point. 
In that case, the court noted, “FEHA's prohibitions are not a ‘civility
code’ and are not designed to rid the workplace of vulgarity.”  (Sheffield v. Los Angeles County Dept. of
Social Services (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 161.)  Plaintiff is not asserting claims based on
isolated incidents of vulgarity. 
Plaintiff’s claims are of severe harassment from her supervisor.  Plaintiff’s claims are based on harassment
that is “more than occasional, isolated, sporadic . . . , or trivial . . .
.”  (Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 457, 467.)
The court cannot
say, as a matter of law, Miranda’s purported conduct does not amount to severe
or pervasive harassment.  Thus, Plaintiff
has raised triable issues of material fact, and Defendants have failed to meet
their burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her harassment claim.  Therefore, the court denies the motion for
summary judgment.
Fourth cause of action: Failure
to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation
            Defendants
contend the fourth cause of action fails because no discrimination or
harassment occurred.  (See Motion for
Summary Judgment, pp. 35-36.)  As set
forth above, Defendants failed to meet their burden to show Plaintiff cannot
prevail on her claim for harassment. 
Defendants, therefore, fail to meet their burden to show Plaintiff
cannot prevail on the fourth cause of action. 

Sixth cause of action: Failure
to provide reasonable accommodations
As set forth
above, Defendants advance evidence Plaintiff did not ask for any accommodations
from NuScience, nor did Plaintiff tell anyone at NuScience she could not
perform her job duties until June 17, 2019, when she informed NuScience she had
carpal tunnel syndrome and could not peel labels off bottles.  However, Plaintiff left work that day and did
not return.  Defendants’ evidence meets their
burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for failure to provide
disability accommodations because NuScience was not aware of Plaintiff’s
disability until June 17, 2019, when Plaintiff left work and never
returned.  Accordingly, NuScience had no
opportunity to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability.  
The burden then
shifted to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning
Defendants failure to provide reasonable accommodations.  As discussed above, Plaintiff was not able to
do so through her declaration in which Plaintiff does not address her claim for
discrimination.  Therefore, Plaintiff
fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether NuScience failed
to provide reasonable accommodations.  
But, in that Plaintiff
has met her burden with respect to her harassment claim, Defendants are unable
to prevail on this summary judgment motion. 
Seventh cause of action: Failure
to engage in a good faith interactive process
            Because
Plaintiff did not give NuScience the opportunity to engage in the interactive
process, Defendants have met their burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail
on her claim for failure to engage in good faith in that process.  With the burden then shifted to Plaintiff, she
has similarly not raised triable issues of material fact as to whether
NuScience failed to engage in the interactive process, but Defendant cannot
prevail on its summary judgment motion when Plaintiff has presented triable
issues of material fact concerning her harassment claim.
Ninth cause of action: wrongful
termination in violation of public policy
California law
provides “a tort remedy when an employer's discharge of an employee contravenes
the dictates of public policy.” (Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980)
27 Cal.3d 167, 177.)  As set forth above,
Defendants present evidence, by way of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, Plaintiff
left NuScience on June 17, 2019, and never returned, and she had already resigned,
effective June 19, 2019.  This evidence satisfies
Defendants’ burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for
wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  Plaintiff has not raised triable issues of
material fact as to whether NuScience wrongfully terminated Plaintiff’s
employment.  Nonetheless, summary judgment
must be denied because Plaintiff has met her burden with respect to the harassment
claim.  
Punitive damages
Defendants’ only
argument regarding the punitive damages claim is that no discrimination or
harassment occurred.  (See Motion for
Summary Judgment, p. 41.)  As set forth above,
Defendants fail to meet their burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her
claim for harassment.  Defendants,
thereby, fail to meet their burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her
claim for punitive damages.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is
denied.
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the court’s
order and to file proof of service of same.