  Case Number:  19STCV25041    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUP, INC. 
                           
         vs.
 
THE KROGER CO.; THE KROGER CO. OF
  MICHIGAN; FOODS CO. 
 
                                         
  Defendants. 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV25041
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: March 1, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED.
 
            On
July 18, 2019, Plaintiff filed the instant action against the Kroger Co., the
Kroger Co. of Michigan, and Foods Co. (collectively, Defendants), alleging a
violation of Proposition 65, the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act
of 1986.
 
            On
2/5/2024, Defendant moved for a judgment on the pleadings. 
 
            On
2/16/2024, Plaintiff opposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that it is entitled to a judgment on the pleadings because Plaintiff’s
Notice of Violation is defective, and Prop 65 requires strict compliance with
pre-suit notice requirements.  
 
            In
support of the first contention (i.e, the Notice is defective), Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Notice does not identify a responsive individual
“within” the noticing entity. 
 
Pre-suit
notice was designed to accomplish two things: (1) to provide the public
prosecutor the means to assess whether to intervene on the public’s behalf, and
(2) to afford the target of the notice the opportunity to avoid litigation by
settling with the plaintiff or by curing any violation. (Consumer Advoc.
Grp., Inc. v. Kintetsu Enters. Am. (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 953,
963–64.) Against that backdrop, Proposition 65 requires that the notice
identify “the name, address, and telephone number of the noticing individual or
a responsible individual within the noticing entity and the name of
the entity.” Cal. Code Regs. tit. 27, § 25903(b)(2)(A)(1) (emphasis added). CAG
fails to satisfy this requirement.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s Notice states that “[v]iolators may contact CAG concerning this
Notice through its designated person within the entity, its attorney, Reuben
Yeroushalmi.” (See e.g., D’s Ex. G, at 1.) Defendant contends
this is insufficient because Plaintiff’s outside counsel is not a “responsible
individual within” CAG. 
 
            In
support of the second contention (i.e., Prop. 65 requires strict compliance),
Defendant cites Prop. 65’s express language which provides: 
 
For purposes
of Section 25249.7(d) of the Act, “notice of the violation which is the subject
of the action” (hereinafter “notice”) shall mean a notice meeting all
requirements of this section. No person shall commence an action to
enforce the provision of the Act “in the public interest” pursuant to Section
25249.7(d) of the Act except in compliance with all requirements of this
section.
            
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that its Notices were properly served, and even
assuming they were not, only substantial, rather than strict, compliance is
required. 
 
            In
support of the first contention, Plaintiff notes that there is nothing in the
statute that actually limits the phrase of “individual within the noticing
entity” in 27 CCR § 25903(b)(2)(A)(1) to mean “officer, director, or employee.
Indeed, as noted by Plaintiff, OEHHA created a defined term, “employee” at the
outset of the Chapter that would seem to capture what Defendant contends the
phrase “person within the entity.” (27 CCR, § 25102(h).) As such, Plaintiff
contends that if OEHHA had intended to apply the notice requirement to only
officer, director, or, employee, OEHHA could have used the language of
“employee” rather than “person within the entity.” By using this broader
language, Plaintiff contends that non-employee agents qualified as appropriate
contact persons.   
 
            In
support of the second contention, Plaintiff characterizes the ruling of Kintetsu,
supra, as having concluded that only substantial compliance with the
requirements of section 25903(B)(2)(a) was necessary. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees with Plaintiff. 
 
            As
for the issue of Notice, Plaintiff does not cite any statutory language or case
law which would suggest that outside counsel would constitute an individual
“within” the noticing entity. Thus, while the Court understands Plaintiff’s
contention that there is no indication that this category of individuals must
be limited to a director, officer, or employee, Plaintiff has not provided any
basis for why outside counsel would fall within this category. Given
that the language “individual within the noticing entity” would, on its face,
appear to exclude outside counsel, Plaintiff offers no explanation as to why
OEHHA would have used this language without any further definition if it
contemplated that outside counsel should be included in this definition.
 
            As
for the issue of compliance, the Court is not persuaded of Plaintiff’s
interpretation of Kintetsu. In Kintetsu, one defendant, Circle K
Stores, Inc., “argue[d] that the notice was insufficient because it [Circle K
Stores, Inc.] was incorrectly named” having been listed as “Circle K Co.” and
“Circle K” in the notice and the complaint. (Kintetsu, supra, 150
Cal.App.4th at 972.) The Court of Appeal rejected Circle K Stores, Inc.’s
challenge to the validity of the notice on the grounds that it failed to
strictly comply with Section 25903(B)(2)(a)’s requirement that the notice
“shall identify … the name of the alleged violator”, ruling that “[b]y seeking
a dismissal on grounds other than personal jurisdiction, Circle K Stores, Inc.
forfeited its right to contest the notice on the ground that it was improperly
named.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Court
understand Plaintiff’s argument that if failure to strictly comply was required
then failure to strictly comply with the requirement of Section 25903(B)(2)(a)
to identify “the name of the alleged violator” would have been grounds for
dismissal in its own right, independent of any challenge to personal
jurisdiction. However, this is an inference of Plaintiff’s, and is not
expressly stated by the Kintetsu Court, nor is it a question that was
actually considered by the Court. Rather, the Kintetsu Court did not
consider the questions of whether or not the failure to properly name Circle K
was fatal to the claim, or whether or not there was still substantial
compliance, because it found that Circle K had forfeited the right to raise the
issue. As such, it is a overstatement of the holding to say that the Kintestu
Court concluded that only substantial compliance was necessary with Prop.
65 requirements. 
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff is assuming a false equivalency between the facts here and in Kintetsu.
In Kintetsu, Plaintiff failed to include Circle K’s full name—Circle K
Stores, Inc.—in the Notice, and instead Noticed them as “Circle K Co./Circle K”.
Here, by contrast, the question is whether or not the individual named in
Plaintiff’s Notice satisfies the very definition of an individual within the
noticing entity as a required by statute. The Court disagrees that these defects
are analogous. As such, the Court is not persuaded that Plaintiff has shown
that it substantially complied with Section 25903(B)(2)(a) requirements.  
 
            Proposition
65 expressly states that pre-suit notices much meet “all requirements of [the]
section, and that “[n]o person shall commence an action to enforce the
provision of the Act “in the public interest” pursuant to Section 25249.7(d) of
the Act except in compliance with all requirements of this section.”
(Cal. Code Regs. tit. 27, § 25903(a) (emphases added). Proposition 65 requires
that the notice identify “the name, address, and telephone number of the
noticing individual or a responsible individual within the noticing
entity and the name of the entity.” Cal. Code Regs. tit. 27, §
25903(b)(2)(A)(1)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff listed outside counsel as the responsible individual within the
noticing entity, and could not identify any legal basis on which this Court
could rely on to conclude that outside counsel fell within the meaning of the
statute. Second, while the Court questions Plaintiff’s contention that only
substantial compliance with pre-suit notice requirements is necessary, the
Court also concludes that, even assuming it is, Plaintiff has not shown that
its listing of outside counsel still substantially complied with the statute. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 