 Case Number:  22STCV28181    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 



JEFFREY A. PARIS 
  
        
  vs.
 
ESTATE OF REYNOLD F. PARIS  
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV28181  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 1, 2024



 
 
Chabad of Ojai Valley’s (COV) motion to vacate the judgment and dismiss based on failure
to join an indispensable party is DENIED. 
 
            On
8/29/2022, Plaintiff Jeffrey A. Paris (Plaintiff) filed suit against the Estate
of Reynold F. Paris, trustee of the Paris Family Trust, alleging: (1)
rescission; (2) complaint in equity to set aside; (3) fraud; (4) fraud; (5)
common counts; (6) common counts; (7) constructive trust; and (8) negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            Now,
Chabad of Ojai Valley (COV) moves to set aside judgment and dismiss this case
for lack of jurisdiction over the internal affairs of trusts.
 
Discussion 
 
            This
action arises out of a Stipulated Judgment entered 2/6/2023, which struck, in
part, a $75,000 charitable gift to COV by the Third Amendment to the Paris
Family Trust. 
 
A person is an
indispensable party to litigation if his or her rights must necessarily be
affected by the judgment. Stated differently, ‘Where the plaintiff seeks some
type of affirmative relief which, if granted, would injure or affect the
interest of a third person not joined, that third person is an indispensable
party…’[a] judgment in an action not naming an
indispensable party ... is subject to later collateral attack by the non-joined
indispensable party.” (Washington Mutual Bank v. Blechman (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 662, 667, at p. 668, quoting Save of Bay, Inc. v. San Diego
Unified Port Dist. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 686.)
 
            Here, COV is a beneficiary of the
Third Amendment to the Paris Family Trust. (Nemtzov Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
            In its 10/27/2023 ruling, the Court
ordered supplemental briefing, writing the following: 
COV argues that the judgment is void. However, by COV’s own
citation, “[t]he failure to join an indispensable party invalidates the
portions of the judgment that purport to adjudicate that party's rights.”
(Carpenters 46 N. Cal. Ctys. Conf. Bd. v. Zweigle (1982) 130 Cal.App.3d
337, emphasis added.) Here, COV’s motion concerns only the $75,000.00
charitable gift, while the judgment concerned the entire third amendment of the
Paris Family Trust.  COV has not set
forth any basis as to why the Court would or should set aside the entire
judgment or dismiss the entire action, when only the $75,000 gift to COV
was impacted by the entry of judgment, and only that specific portion of the
judgment would be unenforceable for a failure to join COV as an indispensable
party. COV is to submit briefing on the question.
 
…
 
Both parties are to submit further briefing clarifying whether or
not this case can proceed in probate, whether or not COV had notice of the
probate claim, and why COV did not file any pleadings or seek any relief if it
did. Moreover, Plaintiff is to clarify why it notified COV of its impacted
rights as part of the probate process, but did not notify COV that it was
filing this action. In other words, Plaintiff is to clarify why he believed COV
was an impacted party for probate, but did not consider COV an indispensable
party in this civil action. While Plaintiff clarifies that he did not serve COV
in this case because he was not seeking specific damages from COV, Plaintiff
has not advanced any substantive argument, supported by case law, that COV was
not, in fact, an indispensable party because of its interest in property
impacted by Plaintiff’s claims.
 
            Even having reviewed the
supplemental briefing, the parties frequently talk past each other citing their
own authority without distinguishing the authorities cited by others. Indeed,
the parties both set forth different dates for the filing of the
Petition—9/26/2019 (COV-claimed date) and 7/11/2022 (Plaintiff claimed date),
yet at no point does either party addresses this fact—they just simply assert
their own facts. 
 
            Overall, the Court found the quality
of the briefing to be underwhelming. Neither party cited any analogous caselaw
to support their position, but rely only on statutory language and case
citations to recitations of law. Moreover, COV failed to address the very
pertinent question as to why the Court would invalidate the entire judgment,
rather than only the COV gift. 
 
            In light of the briefing available, after
review, the Court finds that COV’s request for relief must be denied. (Henry
M. Lee Law Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1382; 139
Cal.Rptr.3d 712.) (A motion to vacate is a means by which a non-party can seek
to become a party to litigation.)
 
            There is no dispute that COV was a
beneficiary of the Third Amendment to the Paris Family Trust (Third Amendment).
(Nemtzov Decl., Exh. 1.) From the supplemental briefing, there also appears to
be no dispute that the Third Amendment incorporating the gift of $75,000 to COV was the subject of an
irrevocable trust. 
 
            On
September 26, 2019, Richard Paris filed a Petition to Invalidate the Third
Amendment. Jeffrey Paris received notice of this Petition as did COV. At the
time that the petition was filed, Reynold Paris, one of the Settlors of the
trust, was still alive.
 
            As
such, at the time that the petition was filed, the trust was revocable, and COV
possessed only a contingent interest in the gift. As the beneficiary of a
revocable trust, COV only possessed standing to demand an accounting and
information from the trustee regarding trust assets and transactions during the
time period before the trust became irrevocable. (In re Estate of Giraldin (2012) 55
Cal.4th 1058 (Giraldin).) 
 
            COV
explains that it did not respond when it first received notice of the Petition
because the trust remained revocable as long as Reynold Paris remained alive,
and thus their standing regarding trust assets was limited to a demand for
accounting. 
 
            Moreover,
COV cites California Probate Code section 8271 (emphasis added) which provides:

 
In (a) On the filing of the petition, a summons shall be directed
to the personal representative and to the heirs and devisees of the decedent,
so far as known to the petitioner. The summons shall contain a direction that
the persons summoned file with the court a written pleading in response to the
petition within 30 days after service of the summons. Failure of a person
timely to respond to the summons precludes the person from further
participation in the revocation proceeding, but does not otherwise affect the
person's interest in the estate.
 
            COV argues that based on this
language, even if they did have standing to intervene, they had no obligation
to do so. 
 
            However,
“[w]hen the person holding the power to revoke
dies, the rights of the contingent beneficiaries are no longer contingent.
Those rights, which were postponed while the holder of the power to revoke was
alive, mature into present and enforceable rights under division 9, the trust
law.” (Giraldin, supra, 55 Cal.4th at 1070.) 
 
            Reynolds Paris, the final living Settlor of the trust,
died on January 19, 2022. Given the death of the Trust’s settlors, the trust
became irrevocable, and COV had the power to enforce its rights to its $75,000
gift. 
 
             California Probate Code section 16061.7
provides that:
 
 (a) A trustee shall serve a notification
by the trustee as described in this section in the following events:
(1) When a revocable trust or any portion thereof
becomes irrevocable because of the death of one or more of the settlors of the
trust, or because, by the express terms of the trust, the trust becomes
irrevocable within one year of the death of a settlor because of a contingency
related to the death of one or more of the settlors of the trust.
On 3/18/2022, Plaintiff notified COV that Reynold Paris had passed,
that the trust had become irrevocable, and would be divided among the
beneficiaries. (P’s Supp., Exh. B.) In its supplemental materials, COV argues: 
 
After Reynolds Paris passed away, Chabad of Ojai Valley was never
served with any lawsuit or petition. Accordingly, at the time that the original
Trust Petition was filed by Richard [not Jeffrey] Paris in 2019, Chabad of Ojai
Valley did not yet have an irrevocable interest in the Trust and was not a
party in interest with the right to respond to the 2019 Probate Petition.
 
            However, COV entirely ignores the
fact that they were clearly on notice that a Petition had been filed, and had
been notified that the trust had become irrevocable. As such, even if it was
within COV’s right not to respond at the initial filing based on the trust
being revocable, COV was notified that the trust had become irrevocable and
that it now had standing to participate in proceedings. 
 
            Moreover, Plaintiff submitted
evidence that he filed a Probate Petition on 7/11/2022. (See 6/2023
filing, RJN No.3.) As such, at the time this Petition was filed Reynolds Paris
had already passed, and the trust was clearly irrevocable. 
 
            Thus, under either scenario, COV
received notice that the trust had become irrevocable, and thus was also on
notice that it had standing to intervene. While Probate Code section 8271 does not require a party to
respond, clearly, section 8271 does not stand for the proposition that the
Petition proceedings cannot impact the non-responding parties’ interests if
they do not respond. Otherwise, a party would have absolutely no incentive to
participate in a Probate Petition, and could wholly protect and preserve their
interest by declining to respond. Such a result is not supported by logic or
public policy.  
 
            In sum, COV has not offered any legal basis that could
justify its failure to timely assert its interest in the Probate Petition
served upon it. Accordingly, COV has not shown that it was denied due process,
such that the judgment should be vacated in part or in whole. 
 
            As a final note, the Court notes that this ruling is
supported by interests of justice and public policy. 
 
            CCP section 366.2 provides: 
 
(a)  
If a person against whom
an action may be brought on a liability of the person, whether arising in
contract, tort, or otherwise, and whether accrued or not accrued, dies before
the expiration of the applicable limitations period, and the cause of action
survives, an action may be commenced within one year after the date of death,
and the limitations period that would have been applicable does not apply.
 
Given this
provision, Plaintiff’s claims for damages lapsed a year after Reynold Paris’
death on 1/19/2022, and Plaintiff is now time-barred from pursuing these
claims. As a result, setting aside the judgment would greatly prejudice
Plaintiff, while unjustly rewarding COV for failing to assert its interest
during the previously pending Probate, despite having clear notice of the
proceeding and the risk it posed to its interest. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, COV’s motion to set aside the
judgment is denied. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
March    , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 