 Case Number:  21STCV04430    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  17 [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION TO SEAL Plaintiff
the State of California filed this action against Defendants Anthony J. Haworth
(Haworth) and related entities AwesomeCalls, Inc. (AC), AwesomeCallsTrading,
Inc. (ACT), AwesomeCalls LLC (ACL) (together AwesomeCalls) for allegedly false
or misleading advertisements regarding Haworth’s skill trading stocks and
selling investment advice without a valid certificate.   
Plaintiff
moved for summary adjudication as to causes of action one and two.  Defendants moved for summary judgment.  The court granted Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication.  On September 20,
2023 the parties jointly requested a briefing schedule regarding the amount of
penalties “awarded to the People pursuant to the Court’s Order granting Summary
Adjudication.”  (Sept. 20, 2023 Joint
Status Report at p. 2:5-11.)  Plaintiff
filed an Initial Brief re: Penalties on November 20, 2023.  On March
19, 2024 Defendants filed an Application to Seal Exhibits 2, 3, and 4 to the
Declaration of Scott E. Turguson filed in support of the Initial Brief.  
California
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d) requires a court to “order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2)
[which] supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and(5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”  
Tax
returns are usually subject to a privilege and are not produced in
discovery.  Defendants have an overriding
interest in the privacy of sensitive personal financial information in the tax
returns, which would be prejudiced by leaving the returns in the public record.  The proposed sealing is narrowed to the
returns.  The volume of sensitive
information in the tax returns makes redaction infeasible and, as Defendants
urge, “would effectively remove the relevant information that the Plaintiff
found necessary to show the Court” in the first place.  (Application, p. 3.)  Thus, all factors for sealing are
established.  
The
Motion to Seal is GRANTED.  The moving
party is to give notice.