  Case Number:  23STCV01014    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CHRISTOPHER SOLIS on behalf
  of himself and other aggrieved employees,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
MICHAEL STORES PROCUREMENT
  COMPANY, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV01014




Hearing Date:


January 29, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  MICHAELS STORES PROCUREMENT COMPANY, INC.’S MOTION TO STAY




Background
            On
January 17, 2023, Plaintiff Christopher Solis on behalf of himself and
other aggrieved employees (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendant Michael Stores Procurement Company, Inc. The Complaint alleges one
cause of action for civil penalties and wages pursuant to the Private Attorneys
General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”). 
            Defendant Michaels Stores
Procurement Company, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed an answer to the Complaint in
this action on March 13, 2023. 
            Defendant now moves for an order
staying this action pending a resolution of the action Crawford v. Michaels
Stores Procurement Company, Inc. The motion is unopposed. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for
judicial notice. 
Discussion 
Defendant moves for
an order staying this action pending a resolution of the action Curtis
Crawford v. Michaels Stores Procurement Company, Inc., et al., Case No.
STK-CV-UOE-2022-10922, filed in the San Joaquin County Superior Court (herein, “Crawford”).
(See Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A.) Defendant asserts that “[t]he exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction rule squarely applies here, and it precludes Solis from
litigating this case while Crawford is pending.” (Mot. at p. 5:10-11.) 
“Under the rule of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction, when two superior courts have concurrent jurisdiction
over the subject matter and all parties involved in litigation, the first to
assume jurisdiction has exclusive and continuing jurisdiction over the subject
matter and all parties involved until such time as all necessarily related
matters have been resolved. The rule is based upon the public policies of
avoiding conflicts that might arise between courts if they were free to make
contradictory decisions or awards relating to the same controversy, and
preventing vexatious litigation and multiplicity of suits. The rule
is established and enforced not so much to protect the rights of parties as to
protect the rights of Courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction to avoid conflict of
jurisdiction, confusion and delay in the administration of justice. The rule of
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction may constitute a ground for abatement of the
subsequent action.” ((Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 781, 786-787 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
“Although the rule of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction is similar in effect to the statutory plea in
abatement, it has been interpreted and applied more expansively, and therefore
may apply where the narrow grounds required for a statutory plea of abatement
do not exist. Unlike the statutory plea of abatement, the rule
of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction does not require absolute identity of
parties, causes of action or remedies sought in the initial and subsequent
actions. If the court exercising original jurisdiction has the power to bring
before it all the necessary parties, the fact that the parties in the second
action are not identical does not preclude application of the rule. Moreover,
the remedies sought in the separate actions need not be precisely the same so
long as the court exercising original jurisdiction has the power to litigate
all the issues and grant all the relief to which any of the parties might be
entitled under the pleadings.” ((Id. at p. 788 [internal citations omitted].)
The Plant Insulation Court also found that “[w]e agree with Childs that the res judicata test is not
required for application of the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction. Instead, we adopt the more expansive subject
matter test applied in recent cases and by the trial court herein, which
considers whether the first and second actions arise from the ‘same
transaction.’” ((Id. at p.
789.) 
Defendant
notes that a Representative Action Complaint was filed in Crawford on
November 28, 2022, alleging one cause of action for violation of the Private
Attorneys General Act. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A.) The instant action was filed
thereafter, on January 17, 2023. The Defendant named in Crawford is
Michaels Stores Procurement Company, Inc. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A.) In
addition, Defendant Michaels Stores Procurement Company, Inc.
answered the Complaint in the instant action.[1]
Defendant
asserts that “[e]very allegedly aggrieved employee in this action
(including Solis himself) is also an allegedly aggrieved employee in Crawford.”
(Mot. at p. 5:11-12.) Defendant cites to the first paragraph of the Complaint
in the instant action, which alleges as follows: 
 
“This is a
Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, Labor Code §§
2698, et seq. (‘PAGA’) representative action brought by Plaintiff on
behalf of the State of California, himself and other current and former
aggrieved employees of Defendants who worked as hourly non-exempt employees in
California from October 2, 2021 to the present for failure to pay all
overtime hours worked at the overtime rate of pay; failure to authorize or
permit all legally required and/or compliant meal periods or pay meal period
premium wages; failure to authorize or permit all legally required and/or
compliant rest periods or pay rest period premium wages; failure to pay wages
for accrued paid sick time at the regular rate of pay; statutory penalties for
failure to timely pay earned wages during employment; statutory penalties for
failure to provide accurate wage statements; statutory waiting time penalties
in the form of continuation wages for failure to timely pay employees all wages
due upon separation of employment. Plaintiff seeks on a representative basis,
following notice to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency, civil
penalties, reasonable attorneys’ fees pursuant to Labor
Code section 2699(g)(1) and costs brought on behalf of Plaintiff, the State
of California, and others aggrieved.” (Compl., ¶ 1, emphasis added.)
            Paragraph 7 of the Complaint in Crawford
alleges that “PLAINTIFF, and such persons that may be added from time to time
who satisfy the requirements and exhaust the administrative procedures under
the Private Attorney General Act, brings this Representative Action on behalf
of the State of California with respect to himself and all individuals who are
or previously were employed by DEFENDANT in California, including any employees
staffed with DEFENDANT by a third party, and classified as non-exempt employees
(‘AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES’) during the time period of September 9, 2021 until a
date as determined by the Court (the ‘PAGA PERIOD’).” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex.
A, ¶ 7, emphasis added.) 
            Defendant thus asserts that
Plaintiff in the instant action pursues his claims “on behalf of a subset of
the same employees: Michaels nonexempt employees since October 2, 2021.” (Mot.
at p. 3:2-3.) Defendant also
asserts that “[t]he principles favoring a stay are particularly
compelling here because the plaintiffs both purport to represent the interests
of the State of California.” (Mot. at p. 4:3-4.) Defendant notes that “[a]n employee plaintiff suing…under the Labor Code Private
Attorneys General Act of 2004, does so as the proxy or agent of the state’s
labor law enforcement agencies.” ((Arias v. Superior
Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 986.)

            Defendant also asserts that “all the claims
asserted here were first asserted in Crawford.” (Mot. at p. 5:13.) Defendant notes that in the
Complaint in the instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
failed to authorize or permit legally required and compliant meal periods to
Plaintiff and other current and former aggrieved California-based hourly
non-exempt employees due to Defendants’ policies, practices, and/or
procedures…” (Compl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[f]rom on or
around October 2, 2021, to present, Defendant failed to provide Plaintiff and
other current and former aggrieved California-based hourly non-exempt employees
second uninterrupted duty-free meal period of no less than thirty (30) minutes
no later than the end of their tenth hour of work.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) In Crawford,
the Complaint alleges that “DEFENDANT requires PLAINTIFF to work while clocked
out during what is supposed to be PLAINTIFF’s off-duty meal break. PLAINTIFF
was from time to time interrupted by work assignments while clocked out for
what should have been PLAINTIFF’s off-duty meal break.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex.
A, ¶ 11.) The Crawford action further alleges that “DEFENDANT from time
to time failed to provide PLAINTIFF and AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES with a second
off-duty meal period for some workdays in which these employees were required
by DEFENDANT to work ten (10) hours of work. DEFENDANT also engaged in the
practice of rounding the meal period times to avoid paying penalties to
PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES. PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES
therefore forfeit meal breaks without additional compensation and in accordance
with DEFENDANT’s corporate policy and practice.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶
14.)
            Defendant also notes that in the
instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “when he and other current and former
aggrieved California-based hourly non-exempt employees earned overtime wages,
Defendants failed to pay them overtime wages at the proper overtime rate of pay
due to Defendants’ failure to include all remuneration when calculating the
overtime rate of pay. Specifically, Defendants maintained a policy, practice,
and/or procedure of failing to include all remuneration such as, for example,
shift differential and bonus pay in the regular rate of pay when calculating
Plaintiff and other current and former aggrieved California-based hourly
non-exempt employees regular rate of pay for the purpose of paying overtime
wages.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) In Crawford, the Complaint alleges that “when
calculating the regular rate of pay in order to pay overtime and meal and rest
break premiums to PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES, DEFENDANT failed to
include the incentive compensation as part of the employees’ ‘regular rate of
pay’ for purposes of calculating overtime pay and meal and rest break premium
pay…As a matter of law, the incentive compensation received by PLAINTIFF and
the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES must be included in the ‘regular rate of pay.’ The
failure to do so has resulted in a underpayment of overtime compensation and
meal and rest break premiums to PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES by
DEFENDANT.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶ 13.) 
            In addition, Defendant notes that in
the instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed to authorize or
permit all legally required and compliant rest periods to Plaintiff and other
current and former aggrieved California-based hourly non-exempt employees due
to Defendants’ policies, practices, and/or procedures…” (Compl., ¶ 28.)
Plaintiff in the instant action further alleges that “Defendants maintained a
policy, practice, and/or procedure of failing to compensate Plaintiff and other
current and former aggrieved California-based hourly non-exempt employees with
one (1) hour of pay at their regular rate of pay for each workday they did not
receive legally required and compliant rest periods, in violation of Labor Code section 226.7.” (Compl., ¶ 29.)  
In Crawford,
the Complaint alleges that “[d]uring the PAGA PERIOD, PLAINTIFF and the
AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES were also required from time to time to work in excess of
four (4) hours without being provided ten (10) minute rest periods. Further,
these employees were denied their first rest periods of at least ten (10)
minutes for some shifts worked of at least two (2) to four (4) hours from time
to time, a first and second rest period of at least ten (10) minutes for some
shifts worked of between six (6) and eight (8) hours from time to time, and a
first, second and third rest period of at least ten (10) minutes for some
shifts worked of ten (10) hours or more from time to time. PLAINTIFF and the
AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES were also not provided with one hour wages in lieu
thereof.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶ 15.) 
            In addition, Defendant notes that in
the instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “when he and other current and
former aggrieved California-based hourly non-exempt employees elected to use
paid sick time, Defendants failed to pay them sick time wages at the proper
sick time rate of pay due to Defendants’ failure to include all remuneration
when calculating the sick time rate of pay.” (Compl., ¶ 36.) In the Crawford
action, the Complaint alleges that “DEFENDANT underpaid sick pay wages to
PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES by failing to pay such wages at the
regular rate of pay in violation of Cal. Lab. Code
Section 246. Specifically, PLAINTIFF and other non-exempt employees earn
non-discretionary remuneration. Rather than pay sick pay at the regular rate of
pay, DEFENDANT underpaid sick pay to PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES at
their base rates of pay.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶ 20.) 
            Defendant further notes that in the
instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed to timely pay
Plaintiff’s and other current and former aggrieved California-based hourly
non-exempt employees’ earned wages (including overtime wages, meal period
premium wages, and/or rest period premium wages), in violation of Labor Code section 204. Defendants’ aforementioned
policies, practices, and/or procedures resulted in their failure to pay
Plaintiff’s and other current and former aggrieved California-based hourly
non-exempt employees’ their earned wages within the applicable time frames
outlined in Labor Code section 204.” (Compl., ¶
39.) The Crawford Complaint alleges that “DEFENDANT from time to time
failed to pay PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES within seven (7) days of
the close of the payroll period in accordance with Cal. Lab. Code§ 204(d), including but not limited to for the ‘Hourly’
regular wage payments.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶ 19.)
            Defendant further notes that in the
Complaint in the instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants’ failure to
pay Plaintiff and other current and former aggrieved California-based hourly
non-exempt employees all wages earned (including overtime wages, meal period
premium wages, and/or rest period premium wages) rendered Plaintiff’s and other
current and former aggrieved California-based hourly non-exempt employees’ wage
statements inaccurate, in violation of Labor Code section
226.” (Compl., ¶ 41.) In the Crawford case, the Complaint alleges
that “[f]rom time to time, DEFENDANT also failed to provide PLAINTIFF and the
AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES with complete and accurate wage statements which failed to
show, among other things, the correct gross and net wages earned… the wage
statements failed to identify the accurate total hours worked each pay period.
When the hours shown on the wage statements were added up, they did not equal
the actual total hours worked during the pay period in violation of Cal. Lab. Code 226(a)(2).” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶
17.)
            In addition, Defendant notes that in
the Complaint in the instant action, Plaintiff alleges that “because Defendants
failed to pay Plaintiff and other current and former aggrieved California-based
hourly non-exempt employees all their earned wages (including Overtime wages
for overtime hours worked, meal period premium wages, and/or rest period
premium wages), Defendants failed to pay those employees timely after each
employee’s termination and/or resignation, in violation of Labor Code sections 201, 202, and 203.” (Compl., ¶
43.) The Complaint in the Crawford action alleges that “[a]s a pattern
and practice, DEFENDANT regularly failed to pay PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED
EMPLOYEES their correct wages and accordingly owe waiting time penalties
pursuant to Cal. Lab. Code Section 203.”
(Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶ 23.) The Crawford action also alleges that “DEFENDANT
failed to pay all compensation due to PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES,
made unlawful deductions from compensation payable to PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED
EMPLOYEES, failed to disclose all aspects of the deductions from compensation
payable to PLAINTIFF and the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES, and thereby failed to pay
these employees all wages due at each applicable pay period and upon
termination.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, ¶ 24.) 
            As set forth above, Plaintiff did
not file an opposition to the instant motion. Plaintiff thus does not dispute
that the doctrine of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction applies here, or that a stay of the instant action is
warranted. Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees with Defendant that a
stay is warranted, particularly to avoid inconsistent rulings. Thus, the Court
grants Defendant’s motion to stay this action “pending a
resolution of” Crawford.
(See Mot. at p. 1:6.) 
Conclusion  
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to stay is granted. 
The
Court sets a status conference on ___________________ at 10:00 a.m. in Dept.
50. The parties are ordered to file a joint report regarding the status of the Crawford action five
court days prior to the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered
directly to Department 50.¿¿  
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 29, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


