 Case Number:  23SMCV03553    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here on two ex parte applications
brought by plaintiffs.  One is to file an
over-length brief and the other is for an order shortening time on their motion
to lift the discovery stay in whole or in part. 
Both applications are DENIED.
The court will not turn this application into a mini-hearing
on the merits of the Special Motion to Strike (SMS) currently set for November
22, 2023—the day before Thanksgiving. 
The court does, however, set forth a few things that apply to both
motions.  A SMS has two prongs.  The first goes to whether the complaint
alleges liability based on defendants’ exercise of certain constitutional
rights.  The burden on this prong is on
the moving party.  It is generally
resolved by the pleadings, but the court can look beyond the pleadings
primarily for context and understanding. 
If the first prong is met, then plaintiffs must address the second prong,
which is whether they have established “a probability” that they “will prevail”
on their claim.  Notwithstanding that language,
however, plaintiffs real burden is only to show “minimal merit,” meaning
that there is a triable issue of fact as to whether they will prevail, similar
to what they would have to show to defeat a summary judgment motion.  The Legislature has determined that where a
cause of action alleges liability based on a defendant’s exercise of applicable
constitutional rights, the plaintiff must have the evidence in hand before
filing suit; a discovery stay is imposed automatically when the SMS is
filed.  However, for “good cause,” the
court may allow targeted discovery in appropriate cases.
With that general overview in mind, the court turns to the
two applications.  The first goes to the
page limit.  Defendants were able to file
a brief within the 15 page confines.  True,
they had a ton of extrinsic evidence in the form of declarations, but the legal
brief was only 15 pages.  It discussed
the law and it discussed the facts. 
Plaintiffs have not shown why they cannot do the same.  They note that they will need to address 7
cases.  But that is hardly an avalanche
of authority, and not all cases need to be addressed exhaustively.  For now, plaintiffs have not made their
showing.  If the court, upon reading the
opposition, concludes that plaintiffs in fact did need more pages, it will
entertain a request at the hearing for a continuance and to allow
supplemental briefing.  It goes without
saying (which is always a prelude to someone saying it anyway) that defendants
ought not request leave to file an overlength reply.  The request to file the overlength brief is
therefore DENIED.
That leads to the OST as to the discovery stay.  As a practical matter, if the OST is denied,
so is the underlying motion, which is not set to be heard until after the SMS
hearing.  The court is therefore aware
that a denial of the OST is a denial of the merits.
Plaintiffs bear the burden of showing good cause to take
discovery.  They make two arguments.  The first is that they need to depose certain
people to delve into what the “creative expression” is that undergirds the
motion.  As set forth above, that goes to
the first prong, which is based to a very large extent on the allegations.  To the extent that there is doubt on the
subject, it is generally resolved in the moving party’s favor.  The court does not see a particularized need
for discovery on this point.  The second
relates to depositions of the various declarants.  But plaintiffs there mis-perceive their
burden.  This goes to the second
prong.  Doubts there are resolved against
the moving party.  Were the court allowed
to weigh the evidence and make a determination based thereon, plaintiffs would
have a good case.  And such motions are
not rare.  Motions for preliminary
injunctions, motions to expunge a lis pendens, and motions to obtain
attachments, are all motions where the court can weigh the evidence.  Were this also such a motion, the court would
agree that it would be necessary to depose the various declarants.  But it is not.  Plaintiffs need only establish “minimal
merit,” that is, a triable issue of fact. 
The court has read the underlying motion and does not see that any good
cause has been established to lift the discovery stay.  Moreover, while plaintiffs contend that the
discovery they seek is “very limited,” in the same sentence they say
that they need to take 21 depositions. 
That is not “very limited.”  If
the court is otherwise inclined to grant the SMS, the court will entertain
discussion at the hearing that discovery was needed to give plaintiffs
the ammunition needed to defeat the SMS and will consider continuing the
hearing to allow such laser-beam discovery. 
However, plaintiffs will need to make a far stronger showing than they
have done to date to obtain that relief given the actual burden that they must
carry to defeat the SMS.  Accordingly,
the application to lift the stay is DENIED.
