 Case Number:  21SMCV01968    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  I The court turns first to the motion for leave to file a
motion for leave to amend the cross-complaint. 
The application is GRANTED in that Ramirez may file a motion to file an
AMENDMENT TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT.  That
is not the same as a new amended cross-complaint.  It is a document stating that the currently
operative cross-complaint is amended and specifying the specific amendments.  Because Ramirez seeks only to re-add
defendants and not add new substantive allegations, the court assumes that the
specific amendments will be limited to paragraphs identifying the new
defendants (they can be numbered with a letter after the Arabic number, such as
26A) and the causes of action for which they are being sued.  The new identification paragraph (if needed)
will be in the early section of the cross-complaint and will name the
cross-defendant and identify in a sentence or two that cross-defendant’s
overall alleged role.  The amendments will
also include amendments to the statement in the causes of action to which the
new cross-defendants are being added stating that the particular cause of
action is also being asserted against those cross-defendants but without
further substantive allegation.  If
the motion is granted, no cross-defendant other than the newly-added ones need
respond to the amendment to the cross-complaint as no substantive allegations
are being added as to those entities. 
The papers on file will constitute Ramirez’s moving papers and the court
will schedule the hearing date, although Ramirez will need to lodge the
proposed amendment within 3 court days. 
The parties will have the time allowed by law to file any opposition and
Ramirez will have the time allowed by law to reply.  If the motion is granted, then Ramirez must
serve the new cross-defendants with the cross-complaint and the amendment and
service must be per Code.  Those
defendants will then have the time allowed by law to answer or otherwise
respond.  The court’s initial thought is
that the motion to file an amendment to the cross-complaint is likely to be
granted, but any newly-added cross-defendant will be able to demur if that
cross-defendant believes that there is a valid ground to do so.  Any infirmities asserted will likely be dealt
with at that time.
As to the demurrer, the court SUSTAINS THE DEMURRER AS TO
KARES WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND and OVERRULES THE DEMURRER AS TO
INTERSOLUTIONS.  As to Kares, he is
InterSolution’s CEO.  He is not alleged
to have had any personal participation in any of the events alleged other than
in that capacity.  Because an agent
cannot be sued for the acts of the principals absent some personal tortious
conduct, Kares cannot be sued for the causes of action alleged against
InterSolutions.  No amendment will cure
this problem and Ramirez has had sufficient opportunity to plead appropriately
in any event.  As to InterSolutions, its
basic argument is that Stone was no longer employed by it at the time of the
allegedly wrongful conduct.  In support,
it asks the court to take judicial notice of various documents, such as
emails.  The request for judicial notice
is DENIED.  Most of the documents are not
documents of which the court can take judicial notice (especially as to the
truth of the matters asserted therein with no explanation).  Even to the extent that they are subject to
judicial notice, Ramirez contends that Stone was subject to a dual
employment—both by the landlord and by InterSolutions.  This is really a speaking motion, as it was
the last time InterSolutions brought it. 
It might well be that Stone was no longer an employee at the time of the
allegedly wrongful conduct.  But that is
not what is alleged.  As such, this is
better determined by way of summary judgment. 
If InterSolutions can establish this fact as undisputed, the motion
might be granted and it may be entitled to judgment.  If there is a dispute, then the motion will
be denied.  Either way, that is the
appropriate vehicle.  And had
InterSolutions had elected to follow the court’s statements on this (and bring
that kind of motion) the last time it demurred, the matter would now be ripe
for adjudication (or close to it). 
InterSolutions has 10 court days to answer the cross-complaint.  The ex parte application to file a
sur-reply is DENIED.
As to the preliminary injunction motion, it is DENIED.  Ramirez seeks to have the court enter a
mandatory preliminary injunction.  Such
injunctions are almost never granted as opposed to prohibitory preliminary
injunctions, which are more common.  The
difference is that a mandatory injunction orders the enjoined party to take
some affirmative act; a prohibitory injunction orders the enjoined party not to
do an act.  This is a request to require
that Ramirez be reinstated in the unit. 
That is mandatory in nature. 
Further, Ramirez was never a tenant. 
Even by his own admission his was at most a sub-tenant under Mayendia’s
lease.  He never had (or even allegedly
had) a direct lease with the landlord. 
The court will not order the landlord to reinstate Ramirez to a
subtenancy.  And this ignores that the
injunction is not even directed to the landlord, but rather to individuals who
purportedly work for (or under the direction of) the landlord.  There are more problems with the motion, but
the foregoing suffice to require that the motion be denied, and it is denied.
The matter is also on for a motion to quash, but the court
believes that it has already ruled on that issue.
Finally, Ramirez has requested leave to file a motion to
change venue to San Francisco because he feels he cannot get a fair trial
here.  The court believes such a motion
is frivolous.  The court has considered
the merits of the proposed motion and concludes that no purpose would be served
by requiring full briefing on it.  The ex
parte application is DENIED and the underlying request to change venue is
DENIED as well.
It is not clear whether Ramirez is also bringing a 170.1
motion by way of the ex parte application.  The court does not believe it was intended to
be such a motion, but rather that it is a threat to bring such a motion.  But to the extent that he is purporting to do
so by way of the ex parte, it is STRICKEN as being in the incorrect form
and format as well as not setting forth any legally cognizable basis for
recusal. 