  Case Number:  21STCV43407    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Thursday, May 30, 2024Case Name:                             Simmons Unlimited, LLC v. Dejanee Riley Izydorczyk, et al.Case No.:                                21STCV43407Motions:                                 (1)       Motion for Summary Judgment of Cross-Complaint (2)       Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract in the Complaint                                                 (3)       Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues in Plaintiff’s Complaint Moving Parties:                      (1)       Simmons Unlimited, LLC (“SU”) and Imani Simmons (“Simmons”) in their capacities as Cross-Defendants                                                 (2)       SU as Plaintiff                                                (3)       Dejanee Riley Izydorczyk (“Riley Izydorczyk”), Gabriella McNeill (“McNeill”), and Deja Riley Athletics, LLC (“DRA”) as Defendants Responding Parties:                (1)       Riley Izydorczyk as Cross-Complainant                                                 (2)       Riley Izydorczyk, McNeill, and DRA as Defendants                                                  (3)       SU Notice:                                    OK  Rulings:                                  (1) The Motion for Summary Judgment of Cross-Complaint is DENIED. (2) The Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract in the Complaint is DENIED.  (3) The Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED IN PART and GRANTED IN PART as follows.  The request for summary judgment is DENIED.  The request for summary adjudication of the second and fourth causes of action (issues two and four in the motion, respectively) is DENIED AS MOOT.  The request for summary adjudication of issues one, three, five, and six is DENIED.  The request for summary adjudication of issue seven (punitive or exemplary damages) is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND            On November 24, 2021, SU filed this action against Riley[1], McNeill, DRA, and Does 1 through 10, inclusive, asserting the following causes of action:(1)       Breach of contract;(2)       Breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3)       Fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (4)       Fraud – negligent misrepresentation; (5)       Intentional interference with contract; (6)       Intentional interference with prospective economic advantage; (7)       Negligent interference with prospective economic advantage; (8)       Unjust enrichment; (9)       Accounting;(10)    Constructive trust; and(11)    Declaratory relief. The Complaint alleges the following, among other things. Riley, a fitness celebrity, hired SU to secure a long-term brand partnership with fitness brand Lululemon and its’ parent company Curiouser Products, Inc. (known publicly as “Mirror”). (Compl., ¶ 1.) The parties entered an exclusive management agreement, establishing the commissions that Riley would owe SU once Riley secured that partnership. (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 16.) SU performed all of its obligations under the Agreement and helped Riley form a long-term partnership with Lululemon and Mirror. (Compl., ¶ 56.) However, just before Riley’s deal with those companies closed on or around January 31, 2021, Riley attempted to terminate her agreement with SU to avoid paying SU commissions. (Compl., ¶ 5.) On information and belief, Defendant McNeill colluded with Riley to breach Riley’s agreement with SU. (Compl., ¶ 5.) “Due to Defendant Riley’s breach of the express terms of the Agreement and failure to perform, Plaintiff has suffered damages of no less than $90,000, exclusive of interest and fees.” (Compl., ¶ 60.) “As an alter ego of Riley, DRA is responsible for the debts of Riley.” (Compl., ¶ 59.)On February 24, 2023, Riley filed her operative Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TAXC”) against SU, Simmons, and Roes 1 through 10, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) fraud – intentional misrepresentation and (2) fraud – negligent misrepresentation. The TAXC alleges the following, among other things. “Cross-Defendants induced Riley into entering a purported management agreement (the ‘Agreement’) by misrepresenting to Riley that they personally worked with and personally managed multiple ‘big name’ brands and talent and had personally secured large deals for them  . . . .; personally had connections to secure large deals for Cross-Complainant  . . . [,] were working on a deal with Jagermeister for Cross-Complainant amidst other deals, such as with Puma and Lady Footlocker, for Cross-Complainant; and that Ms. Simmons and Simmons Unlimited was an established and experienced brand manager with ‘several clients.’ . . . [E]ach of the above-referenced representations were false. Cross-Defendants made [those] representations knowing that they were not true and that Riley would rely on them. Riley relied on [those] misrepresentations and would not have entered any purported agreement in their absence. Cross-Defendants were motivated to have Riley execute the Agreement so that Cross-Defendants could obtain monies under the appearance of having secured, or helped to secure, certain specific entertainment services for Riley.” (TAXC, ¶ 5.)Jury trial is set for June 10, 2024.  I.              MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT            On February 22, 2024, SU and Simmons (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) filed the instant motion for summary judgment of the TAXC.               On April 26, 2024, Cross-Complainant Riley filed her opposition to the motion for summary judgment.             On May 3, 2024, SU filed its reply to the motion for summary judgment.  DISCUSSIONApplicable Law“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(1).)“A . . . cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the … cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the … cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The . . . cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) Application to Facts Cross-Defendants move for summary judgment of the TAXC, arguing that there are no triable issues of material fact concerning the pleading’s first and second causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation of facts, respectively, because (1) the Cross-Defendants did not intentionally or negligently misrepresent any material facts prior to Riley entering into the management agreement (the “Agreement”) with SU and (2) even if Cross-Defendants intentionally or negligently misrepresented a material fact before entering into the Agreement with Riley, that representation did not cause Riley any harm.  Whether Cross-Defendants Made any Misrepresentation or False Statement  “‘The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)“Negligent misrepresentation is a separate and distinct tort, a species of the tort of deceit. Where the defendant makes false statements, honestly believing that they are true, but without reasonable ground for such belief, he may be liable for negligent misrepresentation, a form of deceit. [Citations.]” (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 407 [internal quotations omitted].) “The tort of negligent misrepresentation is similar to fraud, except that it does not require scienter or an intent to defraud.” (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 845.) “[T]he same elements of intentional fraud also comprise a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, with the exception that there is no requirement of intent to induce reliance [citation] . . . .” (Ibid.)            Under the first and second causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation, the TAXC alleges that on August 11, 2020, in Los Angeles, California, Simmons verbally misrepresented to Riley that Cross-Defendants (1) had personally worked with and personally managed multiple “big name” brands and talent (including, but not limited to, Jagermeister, Puma, and Lady Footlocker), and “big name” musical artists, (2) had personally secured large deals for those brands, talents, or musical artists; (3) had connections to secure large deals for Cross-Complainant, (4) were working on a deal with Jagermeister for Cross-Complainant amidst other deals, such as with Puma and Lady Footlocker; and (5) were an established and experienced brand manager with “several clients.” (TAXC, ¶¶ 16, 24.)            To prove that they did not make any misrepresentation or false statement (a necessary element for intentional and negligent misrepresentation), Cross-Defendants submit the declaration of Julieanna Goddard (“Goddard”), a social media personality, talent manager, marketing consultant/brand influencer, entrepreneur, and founder of the company 1AM Entertainment, LLC, a Florida limited company (“1AM”). (Goddard Decl., ¶ 3.) Goddard testifies that in or around March 2016, Simmons became the Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) of 1AM and served in that role for several years. (Goddard Decl., ¶ 5.) In 2016, Simmons was substantially involved in negotiating Goddard’s partnership with Puma, including compensation, donations to non-profits, and determining marketing campaign budget, among other things. (Goddard Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, while Simmons was COO of 1AM, music artist, producer, and fashion designer Kanye West (“West”) was a client and still currently a client of 1AM. (Goddard Decl., ¶ 7.) 1AM was involved in the marketing campaign behind the release of West’s “Wyoming Sessions,” a project where West released five (5) albums over five (5) weeks (“Project Wyoming”). (Goddard Decl., ¶ 7.) As the COO of 1AM, Simmons was directly and heavily involved in the marketing campaign surrounding West’s Project Wyoming. (Goddard Decl., ¶ 8.)              The Court finds that through Goddard’s declaration, Cross-Defendants have shown that they worked with or personally managed “big name” brands and musical artists, and Simmons was an established and experienced brand manager with several clients.             However, Cross-Defendants have not submitted admissible evidence showing that Cross-Defendants did not misrepresent, as alleged in the TAXC, that they “personally had connections to secure large deals for Cross-Complainant and were working on a deal with Jagermeister for Cross-Complainant amidst other deals, such as with Puma and Lady Footlocker, for Cross-Complainant  . . . .” (TAXC, ¶ 16.)            Therefore, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have failed to meet their initial burden of showing that Plaintiff cannot prove the element of misrepresentation in her intentional and negligent misrepresentation causes of action.  Whether Riley Suffered Harm as a Result of any Alleged Misrepresentation “[A]ctionable deceit also requires damages resulting from reliance on a misrepresentation. (Civ. Code, § 1709.)” (Building Permit Consultants, Inc. v. Mazur (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1415 (“Building Permit”).) “‘[F]raud without damage is not actionable’ because it fails to state a cause of action. [Citation.]” (Furia v. Helm(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 945, 956.)Here, the only evidence that Cross-Defendants have submitted to prove that Riley cannot prove damages in connection with her fraud claims is their counsel’s declaration attaching a copy of the alleged agreement directed at Riley, “dated December 9, 2020, from Curiouser Products, Inc. in connection with Riley’s deal with Lululemon/MIRROR,” and “from Lululemon dated December 9, 2020, directed to Riley and concerning her overall deal with Lululemon/MIRROR.” (Matthews Decl., ¶¶ 11, 12.) Counsel testifies that to his “knowledge, Simmons led negotiations and/or otherwise advised Defendant Riley on [those] deal[s] . . . .” (Matthews Decl., ¶¶ 11, 12.)However, the Court has sustained Riley’s objections to that testimony from Cross-Defendants’ counsel. For the reasons set forth above, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants have failed to meet their initial burden of showing that one or more elements of Plaintiff’s first cause of action for fraud – intentional misrepresentation and second cause of action for fraud – negligent misrepresentation, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)            Therefore, the burden does not shift to Riley. Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment of the TAXC is DENIED.             Requests for Judicial Notice            No requests for judicial notice were filed in connection with the motion for summary judgment.  Evidentiary Objections            On April 26, 2024, Riley filed evidentiary objections to evidence submitted in support of the motion for summary judgment. The Court rules on those objections (some of which are unnumbered) as follows. The Court OVERRULES Objection Nos. 1-5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 22, 24, and 25. The Court SUSTAINS Objection Nos. 6, 8, 10, “Simmons Decl., ¶ 11, pg. 3, lines 26-27 – pg. 4, lines 1-4,” “Simmons Decl., Exh. E,” 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32,33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, and 42.             CONCLUSION            The Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.Simmons Unlimited, LLC and Imani Simmons to give notice. II.            MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONOn February 23, 2024, SU filed the instant motion for summary adjudication (“MSA”) of the first cause of action for breach of contract in its Complaint. On April 26, 2024, Riley, McNeill, and DRA (collectively, “Defendants”) filed their opposition to the MSA.            On May 3, 2024, SU filed its reply. Applicable Law“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action . . . if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)            “A plaintiff . . . has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant . . . shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) Whether SU Gave Defendants the Required Notice Before Filing the MSAAs an initial matter, Defendants argue that the Court should deny the MSA because SU did not give the Defendants the requisite notice before the hearing.“Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State of California but within the United States  . . . . If the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by two court days.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(2).)“The importance of providing the minimum statutory notice of a summary judgment hearing cannot be overemphasized.” (Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1262 (“Robinson”).)“‘Because it is potentially case dispositive and usually requires considerable time and effort to prepare, a summary judgment motion is perhaps the most important pretrial motion in a civil case. Therefore, the Legislature was entitled to conclude that parties should be afforded a minimum notice period for the hearing of summary judgment motions so that they have sufficient time to assemble the relevant evidence and prepare an adequate opposition.’” (Robinson, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at p. 1262.)“‘[I]n light of the express statutory language, trial courts do not have authority to shorten the minimum notice period for summary judgment hearings.’ [Citation.]” (Robinson, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at p. 1262.)Here, Defendants argue the following.“On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff served its Motion on Defendants via electronic service, with a scheduled hearing date of June 11, 2024.” (Opposition, p. 7:5-6.)  “On February 27, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application and advanced the Motion hearing date to May 10, 2024.” (Opposition, p. 7:12-13 [emphasis removed].)Therefore, the “75-days’ notice in advance of the May 10, 2024 hearing date [was] Sunday, February 25, 2024, plus two court days for electronic service, meaning that the absolute latest date Plaintiff could have properly served its Motion was February 22, 2024. [Citation.] Plaintiff did not serve its motion until February 23, 2024 and thus, it was untimely.” (Opposition, p. 7:13-17 [emphasis removed].)Defendants have miscalculated the 75-days’ notice plus the two court days. “Increasing a 75–day period by two court days implies the addition occurs at the end of the 75–day period instead of at the beginning.” (Barefield v. Washington Mutual Bank (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 299, 303 (“Barefield”).)Therefore, if it is true as the Cross-Defendants argue, that the 75th day for SU’s motion fell on Sunday, February 25, 2024, then that date plus two court days was Tuesday, February 27, 2024. (See Barefield, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at p. 303 [“Applying this rule, the 75th day after defendant’s service of the summary judgment motion on Thursday, November 4, 2004, was Tuesday, January 18, 2005. Adding two court days makes the 77th day Thursday, January 20, 2005, which was the day scheduled for the motion to be heard. Defendant’s motion, therefore, was timely served and there was no error in the trial court’s ruling”].) The 77th day was not Thursday, February 22, 2024, contrary to the Cross-Defendants’ argument.Here, SU served and filed the MSA on Friday, February 23, 2024. Accordingly, the MSA is timely.  Application to FactsSU moves for summary adjudication of its first cause of action for breach of contract in its Complaint, arguing that there is no dispute that (1) the parties entered into the Agreement, (2) Simmons performed her obligations under the Agreement, (3) Riley failed to properly terminate the Agreement, (4) Riley entered into the brand partnership with Lululemon/MIRROR during the Agreement’s one-year term, and (5) Riley has failed to pay the contractually owed commissions to SU. Breach of Contract “A contract is a voluntary and lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good consideration, to do or not to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)To prove each element of its first cause of action for breach of contract, SU submits the declaration of Simmons, who attests to the existence of a contract between SU and Riley: “[Simmons’s] company (Simmons Unlimited) entered into a management agreement dated August 26, 2020 (the ‘Agreement’) with Deja Riley Izydorczyk (professionally known as, Deja Riley (‘Riley’)).” (Simmons Decl., ¶ 6, Exhibit 1 – a copy of the Agreement.) Simmons also attests to Riley’s breach of the contract and damages: “Attached as ‘Exhibit 36’ is a true and correct copy of an email dated February 2, 2020, from me to Defendants Riley, Deja Riley Athletics and McNeil regarding certain commissions that were owed at the time, and which have not been paid to date.” (Simmons Decl., ¶ 54.) “Attached as ‘Exhibit 37’ is a true and correct copy of an invoice from Simmons Unlimited to Defendant Deja Riley Athletics regarding certain commissions owed, which have not been paid to date.” (Simmons Decl., ¶ 55.) The Defendants did not object to those Exhibits on hearsay grounds, and the Court overruled other objections the Defendants had asserted against those Exhibits. However, as stated above, to meet its initial burden for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of contract in its Complaint, SU has to prove that it performed each element of the cause of action. Here, after sustaining Defendants’ objections to SU’s evidence, the Court finds that SU has failed to submit admissible evidence showing its performance under the contract. For example, the Agreement states that SU (which is included in the definition of “Manager” under the Agreement) agreed to “be Artist’s exclusive personal manager throughout the Territory and shall confer with, counsel, guide, advise and assist Artist in all matters pertaining to Artist’s entertainment career as a recording artist, musical performing artist, singer, composer of musical compositions, and as an actor  ….” (Simmons Decl., Exhibit1, Section 2(a).) SU has not submitted admissible evidence showing that it in fact counseled, guided, advised, and assisted Riley in all matters pertaining to her entertainment career as a recording artist, musical performing artist, singer, composer of musical compositions, and actor pursuant to the Agreement.             Therefore, because SU has failed to meet its burden, the burden does not shift to Defendants to show triable issues of one or more material facts exist as to the first cause of action for breach of contract in the Complaint.             Accordingly, the MSA is denied.  Requests for Judicial Notice            No requests for judicial notice were filed in connection with the motion for summary adjudication.  Evidentiary Objections            On April 26, 2024, Defendants filed their evidentiary objections to evidence submitted in support of the motion for summary adjudication. The Court rules on those objections as follows. The Court OVERRULES Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 41 (there are two objections numbered “41”), 42, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, and 53. The Court SUSTAINS Objection Nos. 12, 14, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 44, and 45.              Objection No. 13 is OVERRULED as to the testimony that Simmons’s company issued invoices to Riley, and the parties “never amended nor terminated the Agreement,” but SUSTAINED as to the rest of the testimony for lack of foundation.  CONCLUSION            The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.Simmons Unlimited, LLC to give notice. III.          MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONOn February 8, 2024, Riley, McNeill, and DRA (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication (“MSJ/MSA”) of SU’s claims in the Complaint. On April 26, 2024, SU filed its opposition to the MSJ/MSA.On May 3, 2024, Defendants filed their reply.  Jury trial is set for June 10, 2024.  Applicable Law“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(1).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action . . . if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)            “A defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.  Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  The plaintiff … shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action of a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) Application to Facts            Defendants move for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of the Complaint. In their motion, Defendants identify seven issues, which the Court addresses below.   ISSUE ONE: Whether there are triable issues of material fact as to the first cause of action for breach of contract against Defendants Riley and DJA The Complaint alleges the following under the first cause of action for breach of contract. On or around August 26, 2020, SU and Riley formed a contract when they entered into an exclusive management agreement (the “Agreement”). (Compl., ¶¶ 16, 55.) SU performed all of its obligations under the Agreement and helped Riley realize her objective of forming a long-term partnership with Lululemon/Mirror. (Compl., ¶ 56.) “Under the express terms of the Agreement, Defendant Riley was to pay Plaintiff Fifteen Percent (15%) of all Gross Monies (defined in the Agreement) earned or received by Defendant Riley during the Term. Plaintiff is also entitled to Ten Percent (10%) of all Gross Monies Defendant Riley earns or receives after the term in connection with agreements Plaintiff successfully secured or helped Defendant Riley secure during the Term.” (Compl., ¶ 56.) “The Parties agreed to an express Cure Provision, which required notice to the non-performing party of any claimed default or related misconduct (and also allowed for a thirty (30)-day period to cure any alleged non-performance). Defendant Riley has failed to provide Plaintiff with notice under the express terms of the Cure provision to date. The parties discussed amending the relationship at one point, but no agreement was ever reached between the parties to that extent and nothing was ever signed. After discussing the subject of amending the relationship, the issue of termination was mentioned by Nwoko on a call on or around January 7, 2020 (where Riley was not even present). Riley (the only person with authority to terminate the agreement with Plaintiff) never actually terminated Plaintiff. Defendant Riley never served proper notice on Plaintiff  regarding any purported termination and has failed to properly terminate the relationship to date. Defendant Riley entered into an arrangement with Lululemon/Mirror on or around January 31, 2021, while the Agreement was still in full force and effect.” (Compl., ¶ 56 [emphasis removed].) “Riley owes [SU] commissions for the earnings related to the Lululemon/Mirror partnership, as well as payment related to other relevant brand partnerships, but she has failed to pay Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 58.) “As an alter ego of Riley, DRA is responsible for the debts of Riley.” (Compl., ¶ 59.) “Due to Defendant Riley’s breach of the express terms of the Agreement and failure to perform, Plaintiff has suffered damages of no less than $90,000, exclusive of interest and fees.” (Compl., ¶ 60.)The Complaint asserts the breach of contract claim against Riley and DRA only.“A contract is a voluntary and lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good consideration, to do or not to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)Defendants move for summary adjudication of the breach of contract claim, arguing that there was never an agreement between Riley and SU only; the only agreement was between Riley on one hand and SU and 1AM jointly on the other hand because the term “Manager” in the agreement is used to define both SU and 1AM. “‘Under statutory rules of contract interpretation, the mutual intention of the parties at the time the contract is formed governs interpretation. (Civ. Code, § 1636.)” (Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 608 (“Santisas”).) “Such intent is to be inferred, if possible, solely from the written provisions of the contract. (Id., § 1639.) The “clear and explicit” meaning of these provisions, interpreted in their “ordinary and popular sense,” unless “used by the parties in a technical sense or a special meaning is given to them by usage” (id., § 1644), controls judicial interpretation. (Id., § 1638.) Thus, if the meaning a layperson would ascribe to contract language is not ambiguous, we apply that meaning.” (Santisas, supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 608.)“It is the outward expression of the agreement, rather than a party’s unexpressed intention, which the court will enforce.” (Winet, supra, 4 Cal.App.4th at p. 1166.)“[P]arol evidence is properly admitted to construe a written instrument when its language is ambiguous.” (Winet v. Price (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165 (“Winet”).) “Such evidence includes testimony as to the ‘circumstances surrounding the making of the agreement including the object, nature and subject matter of the writing’ so that the court can ‘place itself in the same situation in which the parties found themselves at the time of contracting.’ [Citations.]” (Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. G. W. Thomas Drayage & Rigging Co. (1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 40.)“The decision whether to admit parol evidence involves a two-step process.”.” (Winet, supra, 4 Cal.App.4th at p. 1165.)“First, the court provisionally receives (without actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the parties’ intentions to determine ‘ambiguity,’ i.e., whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by a party.” (Winet, supra, 4 Cal.App.4th at p. 1165.) “If in light of the extrinsic evidence the court decides the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the second step—interpreting the contract.” (Ibid.) “The trial court’s ruling on the threshold determination of ‘ambiguity’ (i.e., whether the proffered evidence is relevant to prove a meaning to which the language is reasonably susceptible) is a question of law, not of fact.” (Ibid.)“The second step … [is] the ultimate construction placed upon the ambiguous language ….” (Winet, supra, 4 Cal.App.4th at p. 1165.) “[W]hen no parol evidence is introduced (requiring construction of the instrument solely based on its own language) or when the competent parol evidence is not conflicting, construction of the instrument is a question of law ….” (Id. at p. 1166.)When a contract is not ambiguous, then parol evidence is not admissible. (Cf. Bionghi v. Metropolitan Water Dist. of So. California (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1364 (“Bionghi”) [“The court found that the contract was not reasonably susceptible to the meaning Abacus urged, and that parol evidence was thus not admissible, and granted summary adjudication to the MWD. We agree with the trial court. The termination clause is clear and unambiguous. With the words ‘The Agreement may be terminated by [the MWD] hereto 30 days after notice in writing,’ it provides that the only condition for termination is 30 days’ notice, and allows termination with or without cause”].)Indeed, “[t]estimony of intention which is contrary to a contract’s express terms ... does not give meaning to the contract: rather it seeks to substitute a different meaning.’ [Citations.]” (Bionghi, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1369.)Here, the alleged Agreement is attached to Simmons’s declaration filed on February 23, 2024, as Exhibit 1. The Agreement states the following in relevant part. THIS AGREEMENT (the ‘Agreement’), made as of this 26th day of August, 2020, by and between Simmons Unlimited LLC, 1 AM Entertainment (‘Manager’), on the one hand, and Deja Riley Izydorezyk p/k/a Deja Riley … (‘Artist’) on the other hand, shall constitute a complete and binding agreement between Artist and Manager with respect to Artist’s engagement of Manager as Artist’s personal manager.”(Simmons Decl., Exhibit 1 – the Agreement, p. 1, the preamble.)            “Civil Code, section 1430 reads: ‘An obligation imposed upon several persons, or a right created in favor of several persons, may be: 1. Joint; 2. Several; or, 3. Joint and several.’” (Douglas v. Bergere (1949) 94 Cal.App.2d 267, 269 (“Douglas”).)“Civil Code, section 1659 reads: ‘Where all the parties who unite in a promise receive some benefit from the consideration, whether past or present, their promise is presumed to be joint and several.’ The presumption is not conclusive. Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1962. It is rebuttable but controls in the absence of evidence to the contrary. [Citation.] It may be controverted by other evidence. Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1961.” (Douglas, supra, 94 Cal.App.2d at pp. 269–270.)“When [the presumption that a promise is joint and several is] controverted by other evidence [,] an issue of fact is made for the determination of the trial court and its conclusion is conclusive upon a reviewing court unless it is clearly unsupported by substantial evidence.” (Douglas, supra, 94 Cal.App.2d at p. 270.)Here, the Court finds that parol evidence shows that there is ambiguity regarding whether the term “Manager” in the Agreement meant that the contractual obligations of SU and 1AM Entertainment (“1AM”) were joint, several, or joint and several. On one hand, Riley testifies in her declaration that after meeting with Simmons on or about August 11, 2020, she “I agreed to engage with SU for management services on the condition that Goddard’s company, 1AM Entertainment, and SU, act jointly as ‘Manager’ under the Agreement because [she] felt that joint management by 1 AM Entertainment and SU gave me extra security given that 1 AM Entertainment had a long history of experience in the industry.” (Defendants’ Compendium of Evidence (“COE”), Exhibit 1 – Riley Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5.) On the other hand, in her declaration that was submitted in support of SU’s motion for summary adjudication, Julieanna Goddard, the CEO of 1AM testified: “Because of my close working relationship with Simmons, who substantially operated 1AM for several years, we anticipated and otherwise planned that Simmons would serve as the point/day-to-day contact for Riley, and I could be available on an ‘as needed’ basis to make certain calls on Riley’s behalf, if necessary. However, due to my working relationship with Simmons for several years, I knew that she was more than capable of managing any day-to-day issues for Riley, since Simmons previously played a substantial role in negotiating my brand partnership with Puma and since she was substantially involved in marketing album releases for Kanye West.” (Goddard Decl., ¶ 12.)Defendants also argue: “Although the Agreement specified Plaintiff SU and 1 AM Entertainment were to work jointly as the ‘Manager’ party, however, during the Introductory Period, 1 AM Entertainment was not present and did not perform its duties (UMF 18.), and thus, the ‘Manager’ party failed to perform its obligations under the agreement. Simmons emailed the parties on December 10, 2020, stating ‘we’re now 97 days into management and she [Goddard of 1 AM Entertainment] has not been present. As outlined in 3(a) the agreement has the 90 day trial term – we will not be moving forward with her.’ (UMF 19.) On or about December 11, 2020, Riley, McNeill, Simmons, and Ms. Nwoko had a telephone call in which Riley and Simmons agreed that 1 AM Entertainment had failed to perform under the Agreement during the trial Introductory Period, terminating the Agreement. (UMF 20.) As SU and Riley no longer wished to proceed with 1 AM Entertainment, they confirmed they were choosing to end the Agreement as drafted because 1 AM Entertainment would be removed. (Id.) Simmons emailed Goddard to advise that 1 AM Entertainment would be removed from the Agreement and Goddard was in agreement. (UMF 21.) ¶ Once 1 AM Entertainment was no longer performing its obligations with SU in the ‘Manager’ role, the entire Agreement was terminated, or, at a minimum, the Managing party was in breach that Riley did not excuse. (UMF 18.)” (Motion, p. 9:3-17.)The relevant part of the Agreement states:3. Term:(a) The initial term of this agreement (the ‘Initial Term’) shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue until the later of one (1) years from the date hereof, with an option to renew the term (‘Option Term’) for an additional one (1) year. The first ninety (90) days of the Initial Term shall be deemed an introductory period (‘Introductory Period), during which either party may choose to end this Agreement. The terms and conditions applicable to the Initial Term shall apply to the Option Term, if any. The option for the Option Term shall be deemed exercised by Manager unless either Artist or Manager provides the other with written notice to the contrary at any time prior to the expiration of the Initial Term. The Initial Term and the Option Term, if any, are hereinafter referred to as the ‘Term.’(Agreement, p. 2 [original emphasis removed; bold emphasis added].)Here, given the Court’s finding above, that the term “Manager” is ambiguous based on parol evidence, the Court finds that, consequently, a triable issue of material fact exists regarding whether 1 AM’s removal or termination from the Agreement effectively terminated the Agreement within the meaning of the Agreement such that SU is estopped from enforcing the terms of that Agreement. Next, Defendants argue that the purported Agreement is voidable because SU did not apply to register to do business in California until after the parties executed the Agreement, and 1AM is not registered to do business in California. In support of that argument, Defendants cite California Revenue and Taxation Code section 23304.1, which states: “Every contract made in this state by a taxpayer during the time that the taxpayer’s powers, rights, and privileges are suspended or forfeited pursuant to Section 23301, 23301.5, or 23775 shall, subject to Section 23304.5, be voidable at the request of any party to the contract other than the taxpayer.” (Opposition, p. 11:8-12 [emphasis added].)However, Defendants have not submitted any evidence showing that SU or 1AM entered into the Agreement with Riley at the time when the entities’ powers, rights, and privileges were suspended or forfeited pursuant to Sections 23301, 23301.5, or 23775 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. Indeed, just because SU was not registered to do business in California, that does not been that its powers, rights, and privileges were suspended or forfeited within the meaning of the relevant statutes. (See Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23302(a) [“Forfeiture or suspension of a taxpayer’s powers, rights, and privileges pursuant to Section 23301, 23301.5, or 23775 shall occur and become effective only as expressly provided in [Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23302(a)] in conjunction with Section 21020, which requires notice prior to the suspension of a taxpayer’s corporate powers, rights, and privileges”].) Therefore, the Court finds Defendants’ voidable argument unpersuasive. Defendants also argue that even if there was a contract between the parties and the Agreement was not voidable, the “Manager” party materially breached the Agreement and, thus, excused Defendants’ performance. That argument assumes that 1AM breach constituted SU’s breach under the Agreement since the Agreement included both entities within the definition of the word “Manager.” (See Motion, p. 12:20-24 [“Thus, with 1 AM Entertainment’s breach of its obligations and failure to act jointly with SU as the ‘Manager’ party, SU cannot establish that the condition precedent under which it would accrue rights under the purported Agreement has occurred. Because the condition precedent to the Agreement, namely 1 AM Entertainment’s participation in managerial duties with SU, has not occurred, Riley has no duty to perform and no breach can have occurred”].)However, as discussed above, the Court has found a triable issue regarding the meaning of “Manager” in the Agreement. Finally, Defendants argue that even assuming a valid Agreement existed between SU and Riley, SU’s breach of contract claim (alleging that Riley owes it commissions under the Lululemon/Mirror deal) lacks merit because (1) Riley sent a letter on January 14, 2021, terminating the Agreement and (2) Riley entered into the deal with Lululemon and/or Mirror after January 14, 2021. However, in so arguing, Defendants ignore that the Complaint alleges that Simmons was actively involved in facilitating the negotiations that would lead to the Lululemon/Mirror deal pursuant to the Agreement. (Compl., ¶¶ 24-41.)Therefore, the fact that Riley signed the deal after she sent her alleged termination notice is insufficient for Defendants to meet their initial burden of proving that SU’s breach of contract claim lacks merit. For those reasons, summary adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of contract is DENIED.  ISSUES TWO and FOUR: Whether there are triable issues of material fact as to the second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and the fourth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation against Defendant Riley            As Defendants argue, on February 16, 2022, this Court sustained the demurrer to the second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and fourth cause of action for fraud-negligent misrepresentation in the Complaint, without leave to amend.             Accordingly, the request for summary adjudication of the second and fourth causes of action is DENIED AS MOOT.  ISSUE THREE: Whether there are triable issues of material fact as to the third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation against Defendants Riley and DJA            Defendants move for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for fraud-intentional misrepresentation, arguing that it fails for the same reasons the first cause of action for breach of contract fails. (Motion, pp. 14:16-15:2.)            However, the Court has found triable issues of one or more material facts exist as to the breach of contract claim.             Accordingly, the request for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for fraud-intentional misrepresentation is DENIED. ISSUE FIVE: Whether there are triable issues of material fact as to the fifth cause of action for intentional interference with contract, sixth cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and seventh cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic advantage against Defendant McNeill            Like the claim above (i.e., the third cause of action), Defendants argue that the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action fail for the same reasons the first cause of action for breach of contract fails. (Motion, pp. 16:5-17:17.)Therefore, the request for summary adjudication of the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action is DENIED for the same reasons the Court has denied the request for summary adjudication of the third cause of action. ISSUE SIX: Whether SU can prevail on its derivative eighth cause of action for unjust enrichment, ninth cause of action for accounting, tenth cause of action for constructive trust and injunction, or eleventh cause of action for declaratory relief            Defendants again argue that summary adjudication is warranted for the same reasons they argued summary adjudication should be granted as to the first cause of action for breach of contract. (Motion, p. 19:4-9 [“Like all of Plaintiff’s previous causes of action, the failure of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim is necessarily fatal to these claims as well. No Agreement exists or ever existed between Riley, on the one hand, and Plaintiff SU, and only Plaintiff SU, on the other, as alleged in the Complaint [citations], and thus, Plaintiff is not entitled to the relief sought in these claims. Given the foregoing, this Court should grant summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s eighth through eleventh causes of action” (emphasis removed)].)Therefore, the request for summary adjudication of the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action is DENIED for the same reasons the Court has denied the request for summary adjudication of the third cause of action. ISSUE SEVEN: Whether SU can maintain a claim for punitive or exemplary damages             With regard to issue seven, Defendants argue: “As discussed herein, Plaintiff’s tort claims are premised upon the purported Agreement, which is invalid, and the alleged wrongful conduct is the lawful termination of that Agreement, which wholly fails to rise to the level of fraud, malice or oppression. (See generally, Compl. [RJN, Exh. 4].) Thus, even Plaintiff’s complaint does not allege facts sufficient to support punitive damages, much less can it provide triable issues of material fact in support herein. ¶ Therefore, Plaintiff is not entitled to punitive or exemplary damages.” (Motion, p. 20:1-6.)“‘In the usual case, the question of whether the defendant’s conduct will support an award of punitive damages is for the trier of fact, “since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar circumstances of each case.” [Citations.] [¶] But the issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher proof standard. While “the ‘clear and convincing’ evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at summary judgment.” [Citations.] “However, where the plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.”’ [Citations.]” (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762 (“Johnson”).)“[S]ummary judgment on the issue of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression. [Citations.]” (Johnson, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at p. 762 [internal quotation marks removed].)            “Fraud alone is an adequate ground for awarding punitive damages [citation] and it is immaterial that plaintiff’s recovery is in the from of specific restitution, rather than monetary damages.” (Horn v. Guaranty Chevrolet Motors (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 477, 484.)            Here, the Court finds that SU has failed to prove fraud by clear and convincing evidence. SU cites Paragraphs 8 and 32 of Attorney Matthews’s declaration. (Opposition, p. 18:18-21.) However, the Court has sustained Defendants’ evidentiary objections to those paragraphs and, in any event, the testimony in those paragraphs is not clear and convincing proof of fraud. SU also cites Paragraphs 36 and 45 of Simmons’s declaration, but those paragraphs also fail to provide clear and convincing proof of fraud. (Opposition, p. 18:17-24.)            Accordingly, the request for summary adjudication of the punitive damages claim is GRANTED.  Requests for Judicial Notice            On May 3, 2024, Defendants filed a Supplemental Request for Judicial Notice in support of the MSJ/MSA, seeking judicial notice of various documents filed in this case concerning the motions for summary judgment or adjudication.             Court records are proper subjects for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)          Accordingly, the unopposed request for judicial notice is GRANTED.  Evidentiary Objections            On May 3, 2024, Defendants filed evidentiary objections to evidence submitted in support of the opposition to the MSJ/MSA. The Court rules on those objections as follows. The Court SUSTAINS Objection Nos. 34-39, 41, 46-49, 52, 54, 56, 57, 59, 61, 63-67, 69-70, 72, 74, 78-79,  81, and 83-86. The Court OVERRULES Objection Nos. 1-27, 29-33, 42-44, 50-51, 53, 55,  58, 60, 62,  68, 71, 73, 75, 76, 77, 80, 82. With regard to the emails Simmons sent to various brands, those emails are not hearsay to the extent that they are being offered to show Simmons’s motive and state of mind at the time she was reaching out to those brands (i.e., she was reaching out to the brands to perform her duties under the alleged management agreement SU had with Riley); they are only hearsay if they are being offered for the truth of the matters asserted (e.g., that Riley would like to collaborate with Casper). Objection No. 28: OVERRULED as to the testimony that Simmons’s company issued invoices to Riley, and the parties “never amended nor terminated the Agreement,” but SUSTAINED as to the rest of the testimony for lack of foundation.Objection No. 40: OVERRULED as to McNeil’s emails but SUSTAINED as to the rest of the emails on hearsay grounds.  Objection No. 45: SUSTAINED as to Simmons’s emails on hearsay grounds, OVERRULED as to emails from Riley and McNeill.  CONCLUSION            The Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED IN PART and GRANTED IN PART as follows. The request for summary judgment is DENIED. The request for summary adjudication of the second and fourth causes of action (issues two and four in the motion, respectively) is DENIED AS MOOT. The request for summary adjudication of issues one, three, five, and six is DENIED. The request for summary adjudication of issue seven (punitive or exemplary damages) is GRANTED.             Moving defendants to give notice. 