 Case Number:  23STCV09441    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



TEA HERMANKOVA,
et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV09441




Hearing Date:


June 13, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION OF
  DEFENDANT RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT



            
Background
Plaintiffs Tea
Hermankova (“Hermankova”) and Tomas Hermanek, a Minor, by and through
his Guardian Ad Litem, Tea
Hermankova (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on April 27, 2023 against
Defendants Runway Sub Reit, LLC (“Runway”) and Bozzuto Management Company
(jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleged causes of action for (1) breach
of lease, (2) breach of implied covenant of habitability, (3) trespass, (4)
negligence, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6) maintenance of
nuisance, (7) constructive eviction, 
(8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (9) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Runway demurred to the
Complaint and moved to strike portions of the Complaint. On December 13,
2023, the Court issued a minute order in this action providing, inter alia,
that “Runway’s demurrer to the first, sixth, and eighth causes of action is
sustained, with leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
is sustained, without leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the second, third,
fifth, and seventh causes of action is overruled.” The December 13, 2023 minute
order further provides that “Runway’s motion to strike is granted in part and
denied in part, as set forth above. Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve an
amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this order. If no
amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court orders Runway to file and
serve its answer to the Complaint within 30 days of the date of this order.” 
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) breach of lease, (2) breach of implied covenant of habitability,
(3) trespass, (4) negligence, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6)
maintenance of nuisance, (7) constructive eviction, and (8) intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
Runway now moves for
an order striking portions of the FAC. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard
A
court may strike any “¿irrelevant,
false, or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
B.    Allegations of the FAC  
In the FAC, Plaintiffs
allege that since on or about May 16, 2022, Hermankova leased premises
from Defendants, located at 12760 W. Millennium Dr., Unit A408, Playa Vista,
California (the “Premises” and/or “Unit A408”). (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[d]ue to the unlawful and outrageous conduct as hereinafter set forth in
detail, Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas Hermansek,
could not reside at the Premises, and instead moved into 12760 W. Millennium
Dr., Unit A424, Playa Vista, California, (‘Unit A424’), pursuant to an
agreement entered into with the lessee of Unit A424, whereby Plaintiff
Hermankova paid monthly rent to the lessee of Unit A424.” (FAC, ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[f]rom the very beginning of Plaintiffs’
occupancy of Unit A408, pursuant to the Rental Agreement, Plaintiffs
experienced intolerable noise at night emanating from nine old and unmaintained
air conditioning units located directly above Plaintiffs’ unit on the roof, as
well as the refrigerator in Plaintiffs’ unit.” (FAC, ¶ 14.) Hermankova made
several complaints to Runway management regarding these conditions. (FAC, ¶
14.) Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n or about August 3, 2022, Hermankova was
confronted by Runway’s head manager of maintenance, ‘Dan,’…on the roof over
Hermankova’s unit, who physically pushed her and according to Runway’s own
written admission, Hermankova ‘almost fell over one of the pipes on the roof.’”
(FAC, ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[i]mmediately thereafter, instead of
rectifying the situation, Runway served Hermankova with a Three-Day Notice,”
and that “[t]he August 5, 2022 Three-Day Notice was not properly served and was
never followed up upon.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[a]fter
Plaintiffs’ complaints continued to remain unaddressed, and even hostilely
rebuffed, Hermankova entered into an arrangement with the lessee of Unit A424,
Ivan Philip, to pay him rent to stay in his unit while he was away in Europe,
so that Hermankova could recuperate in peace after her major cervical spine and
neck surgery scheduled for January 17, 2023. Pursuant to her agreement with
Ivan Philip, Hermankova and her minor 14-year-old son, Tomas, began occupying
Unit A424 on or about December 14, 2022.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n January 28, 2023, Runway and Bozzuto, by
and through their General Manager, Damanpak called the police, and informed the
police that Runway intended to change the door lock of Unit A424. After meeting
with the police at Unit A424, and Plaintiff Hermankova providing appropriate
paperwork concerning her arrangement with Mr. Philip and their payment of rent
to Mr. Philip, the police advised Runway that changing the locks would be
illegal and that the police did not recommend doing so. The police then left.”
(FAC, ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “on February 2, 2023, Runway, at Damanpak’s
direction, conducted an illegal lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor
son, Plaintiff Tomas from Unit A424, of which Hermankova and her minor son,
were in possession. Runway employees changed the lock on the door of Unit A424
while Hermankova was at a medical facility receiving post-operative tests and
treatment, and Tomas, her then 14-year-old son, was walking their dog.
Hermankova’s minor son returned to the unit with his dog and discovered that
Plaintiffs had been locked out of Unit A424.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) “After waiting
outside Unit A424 for over an hour, three male Runway employees approached
Tomas, one armed with a handgun. Two of the individuals entered the unit, and
told the armed individual not to let Hermankova’s son in. They left the unit
with unknown possessions in their hands. Tomas then called the Los Angeles
Police Department.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) “Police officers of the LAPD arrived at the
scene, and advised Runway management that their lockout was illegal and
directed them to return the keys for Unit A424 to Hermankova.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n two more occasions, February 6
and on February 7, 2023, Runway personnel unlocked the door to Unit A424 and
again attempted to illegally enter.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that “[i]n
addition to the August 5, 2022 Three Day Notice, Runway served two subsequent
Three Day Notices, one on January 25, 2023 and another on January 31, 2023.” (FAC,
¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege that “Runway management, including Damanpak and
Runway’s Leasing Manager, Keri Moody…forbade Hermankova or her minor son from
entering, or even calling the leasing office. Moreover, Runway denied access by
Hermankova to her account through the Runway portal. In fact, Runway’s
management continued a pattern of terrorizing Hermankova, apparently with the
intent to attempt to oust Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son from the
Premises by creating an environment so hostile that it amounted to a
constructive eviction.” (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
 
C.   
Alleged Allegations
Pertaining to “Overruled Causes of Action, Causes Not In Issue, and
Introductory Allegations.” 
As set forth above, on December 13, 2023, the Court
issued a minute order pertaining to Runway’s demurrer to the Complaint and motion to strike portions of the Complaint. The
Court’s December 13, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia, that
“Runway’s demurrer to the first, sixth, and eighth causes of action is
sustained, with leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
is sustained, without leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the second, third,
fifth, and seventh causes of action is overruled. Runway’s motion to strike is
granted in part and denied in part, as set forth above.”  
Runway
asserts that here, “without leave to amend, Plaintiff amended the Second Cause
of Action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, the Third Cause of
Action for Trespass, the Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant of
Quiet Use and Enjoyment, and the Seventh Cause of Action for Constructive
Eviction. The new allegations are set forth in Paragraphs 58, 59, 67, 68, 82,
83, 99, 100, 101, 102, and 103 and should be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 12:18-22.)
 Runway also asserts that “without leave to
amend, new introductory allegations were added. Those new allegations appear in
Paragraphs 14, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30 of the FAC.”
(Mot. at p. 12:23-24.) In addition, Runway asserts that “new allegations were
added in the Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence, which was not the subject
of the Demurrer. The new allegations appearing in the Fourth Cause of Action
are Paragraphs 70, 71, 73, and 75.” (Mot. at p. 13:1-3.) Runway asserts that
the foregoing allegations should be stricken. 
Runway
cites to Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th
1018, 1023, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[f]ollowing an order sustaining
a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the
plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s
order. The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of
action without having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of
action is within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Internal
citation omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs
assert that the “amendments were clearly within the scope of the
Court’s Order.” (Opp’n at p. 4:6-7.) As set forth above, the Court’s December
13, 2023 minute order in this matter provides, inter alia, that
“Runway’s motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part, as set forth
above.” (December 13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 14.)
As noted in the December 13, 2023 minute order, Runway moved to strike
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. The December 13, 2023 minute order provides,
inter alia, that “Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with
the second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability
(Compl., ¶ 51), the third cause of action for trespass (Compl., ¶ 58), the
fifth cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment (Compl., ¶ 69),
the sixth cause of action for nuisance (Compl., ¶ 77), the seventh cause of
action for constructive eviction (Compl., ¶ 83), and the eighth cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress (Compl., ¶ 90).” (December 13,
2023 Minute Order at p. 13.) The minute order
further provides as follows:
 
“Runway asserts that here, ‘[a]t no point in the Complaint do
Plaintiffs allege how or when Runway’s unnamed managing agent came to know of
the alleged wrongdoings of which Plaintiffs complains.’ (Mot. at p. 24:23-24.)
Plaintiffs do not respond to this point or address Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (b) in their opposition. In addition, as
noted by Runway in the reply, Plaintiffs’ Complaint also does not identify any
officer or director of Runway ‘who engaged in the wrongful conduct or who had
‘advance knowledge’ and/or authorized or ratified the alleged wrongdoing.’
(Reply at p. 6:26-7:1.) Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Runway’s
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations (other than those
pertaining to the sixth and eighth causes of action), with leave to amend.”
(December 13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 14, emphasis
added.)[1]
The Court finds that the allegations of
paragraphs 14, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 58, 59, 67, 68, 82, 83, 101, 102, and 103 of the FAC are within the scope of the Court’s
December 13, 2023 minute order granting Plaintiffs leave to amend their
punitive damages allegations. Thus, the Court denies Runway’s motion to strike
these allegations.  
Paragraphs 99 and 100
of the FAC are contained in the seventh cause of action for constructive
eviction and allege, inter alia, that  “[a]s a further proximate result of
Defendants’ conduct and Plaintiffs’ mental anguish, pain and physical injury,
Plaintiffs were required to, and did, incur medical and related expenses, all
to their further damage, in the sum according to proof at trial…As a result of
these acts of Defendants, Plaintiffs were required to, and did, obtain
necessary medical care and attention and will continue to require these
services for an indefinite period…” (FAC, ¶¶ 99-100.) In addition, Paragraph 25 of the FAC was amended to add the sentence, “[b]y
reason of Defendants’ unlawful and wrongful eviction of Plaintiffs, and as a
proximate result of being ejected from the Premises in the manner herein
described, Plaintiffs suffered great mental distress and became nervous and
ill, all to their damage.” (FAC, ¶ 25.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that
“Plaintiffs’ addition of emotional distress damages allegations to their
existing causes of action (including negligence), i.e., additions to paragraphs
25, 75, 99 and 100, in response to the Court’s prior order sustaining
Defendants’ previous demurrer as to the cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, is entirely proper,” and that “Plaintiffs are
entitled to prove their damages for emotional distress resulting from
Defendants’ constructive eviction and negligent maintenance of premises.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:18-25.) But as Plaintiffs acknowledge, the Court sustained
Runway’s demurrer to original Complaint’s ninth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, without leave to amend. (December 13, 2023 Minute Order at pp. 11, 14.) As discussed, “[f]ollowing an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for
judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or
her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order.” (Harris v. Wachovia
Mortgage, FSB, supra, 185
Cal.App.4th at p. 1023.) Thus, the Court finds that it is
appropriate to strike paragraphs 99 and 100 of the FAC as well as the relevant portion of
paragraph 25 of the FAC. 
Lastly, paragraphs 70, 71, 73, and 75 of the FAC contain additional allegations. These
paragraphs are contained within the FAC’s fourth cause of action for negligence.
Runway did not demur to the cause of action for negligence in the original
Complaint, and the Court did not grant Plaintiffs leave to amend the negligence
cause of action. In the opposition, Plaintiffs do not appear to provide any argument
as to how the new allegations in the FAC’s negligence cause of action are
purportedly within the scope of the Court’s December 13, 2023 minute order
granting leave to amend. 
Runway moves to strike the last sentence of
paragraph 25 of the FAC, and the first sentence of
paragraph 70 of the FAC. Runway also moves to
strike the entirety of paragraphs 71, 73, 75, 99, and 100
of the FAC. In light of the foregoing, the Court grants Runway’s motion to
strike these allegations.
D.    Punitive Damages 
Runway also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive damages. Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with the
second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability (FAC, ¶¶
57-58), the third cause of action for trespass (FAC, ¶¶ 66-67), the fifth cause
of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment (FAC, ¶¶ 81-82), the sixth
cause of action for nuisance (FAC, ¶¶ 91-92), the seventh cause of action for
constructive eviction (FAC, ¶¶ 101-102), and the eighth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress (FAC, ¶ 111-112). 
In the motion, Runway
asserts that “Plaintiffs have failed to plead facts that any ‘managing agent’
knew any employee was unfit or authorized/ratified any act.” (Mot. at p.
19:1-3.)[2] However,
Plaintiffs now allege, inter alia, that “Damanpak is the General manager
of both Runway Bozzuto, and Moody is the Leasing Manager for Runway. In
addition to the acts and conduct set forth in paragraph hereinabove committed
by ‘Dan,’ the Head Manager of Maintenance for Defendants in assaulting
Plaintiff Hermankova, and the acts and conduct of Runway employees as set forth
in paragraphs and hereinabove in threatening to, and in fact, locking
Plaintiffs out and physically threatening minor Plaintiff Tomas, Plaintiffs are
informed and believe, and thereon allege that all conduct complained of was
authorized, ratified, directed, undertaken or carried out by Damanpak, Moody
and Dan, and/or Does 1-10, whose identities have not yet been ascertained, but
when they are through discovery, Plaintiffs will seek leave to amend
accordingly.” (FAC, ¶ 26.) 
Runway cites to CRST, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1273, where the Court of Appeal found that “[a]s triable issues exist regarding Davis’s
preaccident knowledge of Contreras’s driving, we examine whether she was a
managing agent. Generally, principal liability for punitive damages [does]
not depend on employees’ managerial level, but on the extent to which they
exercise substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately
determine corporate policy. Thus, to establish that an individual is a managing
agent, a plaintiff seeking punitive damages must show that the employee
exercised substantial discretionary authority over significant aspects of a
corporation’s business. In this context, corporate policy refers to formal policies that
affect a substantial portion of the company and that are the type likely to
come to the attention of corporate leadership…The key inquiry thus
concerns the employee’s authority to change or establish corporate policy.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Runway asserts that here, “the FAC is void of any
facts that an alleged leasing agent, general manager, or manager of maintenance
at the apartment complex, had ‘the authority to change or establish corporate
policy’ for Runway.” (Mot. at p. 20:1-3.) In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert
that this argument is factual. Indeed, CRST, relied upon
by Runway, concerned the trial court’s denial of summary adjudication as to a
request for punitive damages. (Id. at p.
1258.) The Court of Appeal in CRST noted that “[b]ecause
there is no dispute that CRST is a
‘corporate employer,’ the remaining issue is whether ‘the advance knowledge’
and ‘conscious disregard’ was by a ‘managing agent of the corporation.’ (§ 3294, subd. (b).) Our focus is on Davis and Stanek,
the two employees identified as potential ‘managing agents’ in the TAC.” (Id. at p. 1272.) The Court of Appeal found that “[n]othing
before us suggests that Stanek had the requisite ‘advance knowledge’ regarding
Contreras's lack of fitness,” and that “[t]he record discloses no evidence that
Davis had the requisite authority.” (Id. at pp. 1273-1274.) With respect to Runway’s motion to strike here,
the Court is not determining whether there is evidence demonstrating that “Damanpak”
or “Moody,” are the “Managing Agents of Defendants Runway and Bozzuto.” (See
FAC, ¶ 29.) 
Runway also argues that “Plaintiffs have failed to
allege specific facts which satisfy the heightened pleading burden in
connection with a request for punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 13:7-9.) Pursuant
to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a), “[i]n an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
As used in Civil Code section 3294, “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)   “‘Fraud’
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)   
            Runway argues that “[t]he FAC, on its face, establishes the
action is grounded upon Defendant’s alleged failure to repair a noisy
refrigerator in Unit A408 and refrigerator condensors units on the roof.
Further, Plaintiffs complain that after they vacated Unit A408 and entered into
an ‘arrangement’ with the tenant of Unit A424 to sublet his Unit,
notwithstanding the fact subleasing is prohibited in the apartment building,
Defendant attempted to evict them from Unit A424…These facts do not show malice
nor do they meet the heightened burden, set forth above, for an award of
punitive damages.” (Mot. at pp. 17:22-18:2, emphasis omitted.) 
            But as noted by Plaintiffs, the
FAC alleges that “[o]n January 28, 2023, Runway and Bozzuto, by and through
their General Manager, Damanpak called the police, and informed the police that
Runway intended to change the door lock of Unit A424. After meeting with the
police at Unit A424, and Plaintiff Hermankova providing appropriate paperwork
concerning her arrangement with Mr. Philip and their payment of rent to Mr.
Philip, the police advised Runway that changing the locks would be illegal and
that the police did not recommend doing so. The police then left…Nevertheless…despite
the police officers’ admonition, and in direct contravention of California law,
on February 2, 2023, Runway, at Damanpak’s direction, conducted an illegal
lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas from Unit A424,
of which Hermankova and her minor son, were in possession…After waiting outside
Unit A424 for over an hour, three male Runway employees approached Tomas, one
armed with a handgun. Two of the individuals entered the unit, and told the
armed individual not to let Hermankova’s son in.” (FAC, ¶¶ 19-20.) The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged “malice” for purposes of
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
denies Runway’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Runway’s motion as
to paragraphs 71, 73, 75, 99, and 100 of the FAC,
the first sentence of paragraph 70 of the FAC, and the
last sentence of paragraph 25 of the FAC, without
leave to amend. 
Runway is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  June 13, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


