  Case Number:  20SMCV01023    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Klenk v. Behringer
Harwood Redwood LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV01023
MOTION:                  Motion
for New Trial; Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
HEARING DATE:   3/6/2024

 
Legal
Standard
Motion
for New Trial
 
“A motion for new trial is a
creature of statute . . ..” (Neal
v. Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.)
A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 657 and 659. Under
CCP section 657, a motion for new trial may be granted if there is any:
 
[¶] 1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. [¶] 2.
Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been
induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of
chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the
jurors. [¶] 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against. [¶] 4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial. [¶] 5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
[¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision,
or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law, occurring
at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.  
 
(CCP, § 657.)  
 
When ruling on an application for a
new trial, the court sits as an independent trier of fact. (Lane v. Hughes Aircraft Co.
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 405, 412.) The court, therefore, has broad discretion to
order new trials, limited only by the obligation to state its reasons for
granting a new trial and the existence of substantial evidence in the record to
support those reasons. (Ibid.)
In assessing the need for a new trial, the court must rely on its view of the
overall record, taking into account such factors, among others, as the nature
and seriousness of the alleged misconduct, the general atmosphere, including
the judge’s control, of the trial, the likelihood of prejudicing the jury, and
the efficacy of objection or admonition under all the circumstances. (Dominguez v. Pantalone (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 201, 211.)
 
JNOV
 
A motion for judgment
notwithstanding verdict (“JNOV”) challenges whether the evidence was sufficient
to prove the claims or defenses asserted by the opposing party and now embodied
in the jury’s verdict. (CCP §629; Moore v. San Francisco (1970) 5
Cal.App.3d 728, 733-734.) It has the same function as a motion for nonsuit or
directed verdict, the only difference being that the JNOV motion lies after a
verdict for the opposing party has been rendered. (Beavers v. Allstate Ins.
Co. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 310, 327.) The issue is whether these facts
constitute a prima facie case or defense as a matter of law. (Fountain
Valley Chateau Blanc Homeowner's Ass’n v. Department of Veterans Affairs
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 743, 750.) A JNOV motion “may be granted only if it
appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the party
securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence in support.” (Sweatman
v. Department of Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Wendy Klenk moves for a
new trial and for JNOV on Plaintiff's causes of action for Tortious Breach of
the Warranty of Habitability and for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment. In her new trial motion, Plaintiff contends that the court erred in
excluding evidence of certain test results showing the levels of formaldehyde
and volatile organic compounds. Plaintiff also contends that the court should
have allowed into evidence its ruling on the preliminary injunction. In her
JNOV motion, Plaintiff argues that the jury failed to consider the binding
impact of the admissions by Defendants’ corporate designee that Plaintiff's
apartment home was uninhabitable due to the "presence of potentially
dangerous chemicals" and that the apartment had
been under construction since November 2022 through the time of trial and
therefore was uninhabitable during that time frame.
 
New Trial
 
            Plaintiff
asserts that she should have been allowed to submit evidence of the test
results by an independent laboratory, LA Testing, showing the levels of
formaldehyde and VOCs in samples obtained from the apartment. Plaintiff
contends that the court erred by excluding such evidence as hearsay without an
exception, which disallowed Plaintiff’s experts from relying on the results.
(See People v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665 [experts may not opine on
case specific hearsay without an independent foundation for such facts].)
Plaintiff argues that the business records exception applies to any hearsay,
and that the lab results were not hearsay since they were computer generated. The
Court remains unpersuaded on both points.
 
At best, Plaintiff only
demonstrates that the business record exception might apply to the first layer
of hearsay—the reports themselves. This would not apply to the case-specific
hearsay regarding the sampling and testing of the chemicals in Plaintiff’s
apartment. Two individuals that did not testify, Jenny Dang and Hon Pham,
performed the tests. (11/27/2023 Trial Transcript at 70:4–17, 73:26–28.) Ms.
Dang and Ms. Pham had to engage in a nuanced, multi-step testing process which
included calibrating machines, opening vials of samples, desorbing them into
different media, and loading them into specialized instruments. (Id. at 25-38,
51.) Mr. Chapman did not observe or conduct the tests, and could only verify
that the analysts’ signed certifications, confirmed by electronic time records.
(Id., at 83.) Mr. Chapman therefore could not provide foundation for the
substance of the test results. Furthermore, this record clarifies that the test
is not based solely the output of a machine but involves a series of steps and
analyses taken by numerous people. The Court therefore properly excluded
Plaintiff’s experts from relying on the test results as case-specific hearsay.  Moreover, “When a record is not made to
facilitate business operations but, instead, is primarily created for later use
at trial, it does not qualify as a business record.”  (Sanchez, 63 Cal. 4th at
695, fn. 21.)  Here, the tests were
conducted during the pendency of this litigation and were created for use at
trial.  Thus, the business records exception
would not apply.
 
The Court also properly excluded
the preliminary injunction orders from the record at trial. Plaintiff again
fails to cite authority supporting the admission of a prior court order at
trial, especially a preliminary injunction order. This is a logical result
because a prior court ruling is not evidence. Indeed, a trial court’s order “[g]ranting
or denying a preliminary injunction is not an adjudication of the ultimate
rights in controversy” but only serves to “preserve the status quo pending a
determination of the merits of the action/” (Tulare Lake Canal Company v.
Stratford Public Utility District (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 380, 396.) It would
therefore be improper to offer the court’s preliminary ruling as evidence.
 
Accordingly, the new trial motion
is DENIED.
 
JNOV
 
Essentially, Plaintiff argues that
the identified facts establish, as a matter of law, that the Property was uninhabitable.
Plaintiff contends that the jury was “bound” to accept the fact that the
apartment contained "potentially dangerous chemicals" and that the
mere presence of "potentially dangerous chemicals" makes an apartment
uninhabitable. Plaintiff posits no legal authority in support of either
position.
 
The elements for a breach of the
implied warranty of habitability cause of action are: (1) the existence of a
material defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability; (2) notice
to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s
discovery of the condition; (3) the landlord was given a reasonable time to
correct the deficiency; and (4) resulting damages. (Erlach v. Sierra Asset
Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.) Whether the defect is substantial
(and thus a cognizable breach) or de minimis (no actionable breach) is decided
on a case-by-case basis. (Hall v. Municipal Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 641,
644.)  
 
“[E]very lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment.”
(Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281,
1299, citing Civ. Code, § 1927.) “The¿covenant of quiet enjoyment
‘insulates the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord,
or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a¿tenants¿right to use and
enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” (Andrews
v. Mobile Aire Estates¿(2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588.) “Minor
inconveniences and annoyances are not actionable breaches of the implied
covenant of quiet
enjoyment.” (Id., at 589.) “To be actionable, the [landlord’s] act or
omission must substantially interfere with a [tenant’s] right to use and enjoy
the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” (Id.)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff does not explain why the
mere presence of “potentially dangerous chemicals” in a dwelling would
constitute an uninhabitable dwelling as a matter of law. First, this phrase is
vague as to the concentration and type of chemicals. In fact, the record shows
that potentially dangerous chemicals are present everywhere. The
relevant question is not whether such chemicals are present, but how much are
present. (11/17/2023 Trial Transcript at 84:22–26 [“[T]here’s a baseline of
formaldehyde that’s pretty much present in the environment almost everywhere .
. . there’s going to be some formaldehyde in everybody’s homes.”]; 85:22–23
[“Q: Do we have VOCs present in our daily lives? A: Again, Correct.”]; 86:12–15
[“[T]here’s mold everywhere in the face of planet earth. And the question is
not whether mold is present or not, but how much of it is present.”].) Without
knowing the level of the chemicals, a fact finder could not conclude that the apartment
was uninhabitable due to the mere presence of those chemicals. 
 
Plaintiff points to testimony that,
in Ms. Vaca’s opinion, Defendants had a duty to provide a habitable apartment,
which would include “confirming that there is not the presence of potentially
dangerous chemicals in the apartment” (11/21/23 Trial Transcript at 49) and
that “in general” the presence of potentially dangerous chemicals in the
apartment would “make the apartment uninhabitable until [Defendants have] been
able to verify that [the chemicals] are no longer a concern” (Id., at 51).
While these statements are on the record, the testimony is not outcome
determinative. Plaintiff does not show why the jury had to follow Ms. Vaca’s
generalized opinion. Plaintiff does not demonstrate that Ms. Vaca’s opinion supersedes
the Court’s instruction and the jury’s independent determination on what
constitutes a material breach of habitability. 
 
Likewise, Plaintiff does present
authority that any construction taking place on a property, by itself,
would render the property uninhabitable or violate a quiet enjoyment covenant.
Ms. Vaca testified that the apartment was under renovation since November 2022
through the time of trial. However, this alone would not require the jury to
conclude that the apartment was uninhabitable during that time frame. It is not
“self-evident” that having ongoing construction was a material breach of
habitability. It would depend on the facts and circumstances of the
construction. Here, a reasonable juror could conclude, based on the totality of
the record, that the construction concerning “cabinet replacements, baseboards,
fixtures, things of that nature” did not materially affect Plaintiff’s
enjoyment of her lease. Further, a reasonable jury could have accepted Ms.
Vaca’s explanation about why the remodeling was taking longer than usual and
concluded that the complications of Plaintiff’s litigation slowed the project.
(11/21/2023 Trial Transcript at 60-62.) A reasonable juror could conclude that
Defendants were taking a reasonable amount of time to correct the deficiencies
considering such circumstances. 
 
Plaintiff therefore fails to cite evidence
which would support Defendants’ liability as a matter of law. Otherwise,
substantial evidence exists to support the jury’s findings of no liability on
the habitability and quiet enjoyment claims. Plaintiff points to no error in
the Court’s jury instructions which might have led them astray as the elements
of Plaintiff’s claims. Accordingly, the JNOV motion is DENIED.