 Case Number:  22STCV20384    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JENNIFER MONTZINGO 
 
        
  vs.
 
AI AI LEUNG, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV20384  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 11, 2023



 
Defendants’
motions to compel are MOOT. Plaintiff is sanctioned, jointly and severally with
counsel, $1050.00, payable within 30 days.
 
On 6/22/2022,
Plaintiff Jennifer Montzingo (Plaintiff) filed suit against Ai Ai Leung,
Patrick Lau, and AP Development, LTD (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1)
housing discrimination; (2) violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (3) general
negligence; (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (6) violation of
privacy; (7) unlawful entry into dwelling; (8) unlawful termination of utility
by landlord; (9) unlawful obstruction of access to property; and (10) breach of
the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. 

 
            Now,
Defendants move to compel responses to their Form Interrogatories and Requests
for Production (RFP). Defendants also move to have their Requests for Admission
(RFAs) deemed admitted. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that good cause exists to compel responses to this discovery. 
 
            Plaintiff
did not file a formal opposition, given that the advancement of these motions
via ex parte meant that the opposition would have been due the day the ex parte
was heard. However, in a declaration filed 9/28, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants have engaged in discovery abuses by maintaining these motions. For
example, Plaintiff submitted evidence that Defendants reneged on their
agreement to waive the 8/18/2023 response deadline leaving Plaintiff only three
days to respond to the subject requests. Plaintiff also argues that the 132
RFAs consist of oppressive requests designed solely to burden like: 
 
Admit that
LEUNG and LAU supplied YOU with bed linens after YOU informed them that YOU did
not have any. 
 
Admit that
LEUNG supplied YOU with new bathroom towels after YOU informed them that YOU
did not have any.
 
Admit that
YOU were not required to pay the gardening bill during YOUR tenancy at the
DEVERON HOUSE.
 
Admit that
YOU refused to remove YOUR motorized wheelchair from Defendant’s garage when
Defendants requested that YOU move it to another location. 
 
(See Def.s’
Mot. To Deem Matters Admitted, Ex. A, p. 3, Nos. 45-46; p. 4, No. 46; p.5, No.
77.)
 
Finally, Plaintiff
indicates that she will be in substantial compliance with the requests by the
time of the hearing. (See CCP § 2033.280, subd. (c.).) 
 
Assuming
Plaintiff provides responses prior to this hearing, the Court finds that the
motions are moot. However, the Court still finds sanctions to be warranted.
Defendants served Plaintiff with the RFPs on 6/8/2023, and the Form
Interrogatories and RFAs on 6/16/2023. Plaintiff did not seek a protective
order or respond with objections based on a belief that the requests were
improper. Even accepting that Defendant reneged on an agreement to extend the
8/18 deadline, this does not explain why by mid-October Plaintiff has still not
provided any responses.      
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motions to compel are moot. Plaintiff is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $1050.00. ($350/hr x 3 hrs.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 