 Case Number:  21STCV26285    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SUBRIGO
  COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, et al.
                           
         vs.
 
TURNER
  CONSTRUCTION COMPANY 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  21STCV26285 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: October 11, 2023



 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
On 7/16/2023,
Plaintiff Subrigo Communications Corporation and Subrigo Networks Corporation
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Turner Construction Company and
Silverado Contractors, alleging negligence. 
 
            On
7/11/2023, Plaintiff was granted leave to amend to file a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC).
 
            Now,
Defendant Turner Construction Company and Silverado Contractors, Inc.
(Defendants) demur to Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that the new allegations against them in the SAC do not relate back to
the original Complaint’s allegations, and thus are barred by the applicable
three-year statute of limitations.  
 
The statute
of limitations for claims asserting damage to property is three years. (Code of
Civ. Proc. § 338.)
            
            Here,
Plaintiffs allege that on or about July 17, 2018, Defendants began performing
construction on the parking lot between One Wilshire and Quinby. (SAC ¶14.) On
7/19/2018, Defendants used a backhoe to remove a slab of concrete that was
wrapped around the conduits, and in doing so fractured the conduits that the
concrete was wrapped around (hereinafter the Incident.) (SAC ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs
allege that while the aforementioned damage did not result in any service
interruptions, it “jeopardized the stability of the network” and “increased the
likelihood that Plaintiffs’ customers would have service interruptions or
network speed issues.” (SAC ¶16.) Plaintiffs further allege they have sustained
damages in the form of increased costs to sustain their services, lost
customers due to damage to Plaintiffs’ business reputation and value. (SAC ¶¶
17, 18.)
 
In the SAC,
Subrigo International asserts a cause of action for negligence against
Defendants for the first time arising out of the Incident.
 
In order for
the relation-back doctrine to apply, “the amended complaint must (1) rest on
the same general set of facts, (2) involve the same injury, and (3) refer to
the same instrumentality, as the original one.” (Norgart v. Upjohn Co.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 408-409.) In addition, “a new plaintiff cannot be joined
after the statute of limitations has run where he or she seeks to enforce an
independent right or to impose greater liability upon the defendant. (Quiroz
v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1279.)
 
In Bartalo
v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 526, 534 [124 Cal.Rptr. 370], the
court held that an amendment to add a new plaintiff who had been injured in the
same car accident as the original plaintiff would not benefit from the relation
back doctrine because it was a wholly distinct legal obligation. The claim of
the new plaintiff was time-barred, as a result. The Bartalo court
applied the rule that each truly separate plaintiff has his own independent
“cause of action” and that each such claim therefore carries its own statute of
limitations. (Id. at p. 533.)
 
After review,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient at the pleading
stage to show the relation-back doctrine applies.
 
In Pasadena
Hospital, the Court permitted an individual plaintiff to add a corporation
that was the professional corporation for his medical practice because the same
claims and basic facts governed both plaintiffs. (Pasadena Hospital Assoc.
v. Superior Court, 204 Cal.App.3d 1033, 036.) Moreover, the additional
plaintiff existed pre-filing. (Ibid.)
 
 Similarly, here, the injuries that Subrigo
International has articulated are the same as those discussed in the previous
iterations of the complaint. Namely, Plaintiffs have alleged that they have
incurred damages as a result of Defendants’ conduct, including damages arising
from replacement and migration costs, loss of use of Conduit 2571, and loss of
use of the 864-count cable beginning July 19, 2018. (See Original Complaint
¶15, FAC ¶18, SAC ¶18.) The damage is defined and limited in scope to the
damages resulting from the Incident. As such, Plaintiffs’ claims against all
Defendants rely on the same facts, injury, and recovery sought in the original
Complaint. 
 
As a final
note, Plaintiffs contend in opposition that Defendant’s argument is in bad
faith because Defendant already raised the time-barred objection in opposition
to Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend. However, that issue was never taken
up by the Court. Rather, the Court granted the motion on the basis that the
California public policy strongly favors amendment, this case is still at an
early stage, and the sufficiency of the pleadings could be tested on demurrer.
As such, the Court declines to find this motion frivolous or to set an OSC for
sanctions as requested by Plaintiffs. 
 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October 
  , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 