  Case Number:  21STCV13225    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BRANDON POWELL 
                           
         vs.
 
VENICE DEVELOPMENT INC., et al.

 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV13225
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 11, 2023



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to enforce settlement is GRANTED. 
 
            On
4/7/2021, Plaintiff Brandon Powell (Plaintiff) filed suit against Venice
Development, Inc., the Cadillac Hotel, and Sris Sinnathamby, alleging: (1)
unlawful discrimination; (2) adverse employment action; (3) unfair business
practices; and (4) negligence. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to enforce settlement. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order of entry of judgment and liquidated damages in the amount of
$10,000 against Defendants Venice Development, Inc. and Sris Sinnathamby, pursuant
to the terms of the Settlement Agreement entered into between the parties on
2/21/2023. 
 
            Per
the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Defendant agreed to pay $25,000 in
exchange for a release of all claims that Plaintiff held at the time. 
            
            Plaintiff
claims that despite having performed all the primary terms of the
agreement—chief among them to dismiss this lawsuit and the DLSE Complaint with
prejudice—Defendant has failed to make the $25,000 payment. 
 
            Plaintiff
notes that Paragraph 17 of the Settlement Agreement includes a liquidated
damages provision which provides:
 
Liquidated
Damages. In the event of a breach of any term of this Agreement, the Parties
acknowledge and agree that it would be impractical or extremely difficult to
ascertain the amount of actual damages. For this reason, the Parties agree that
any breach shall result in the imposition of liquidated damages in the amount
of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), per each occurrence. The Parties
acknowledge and agree that this amount is reasonable under the circumstances
existing at the time this Agreement is being made and executed.
            
            After
review, the Court finds that Plaintiff is owed $25,000 under the Agreement,
plus $10,000 in liquidated damages for the failure to timely pay. Defendant did
not oppose this motion and thus is considered to have conceded to the merits of
the motion.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement is granted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 