  Case Number:  23STCV29354    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
3, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Orlando
Garcia v. Link Investment Group, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV29354

 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Fox Holdings, LLC, Tal Hassid, Alona Hassid (Fox Defendants); Defendant
Nathalie Lara
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Orlando Garcia[1]
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
by the Fox Defendants to the First and Second Causes of Action for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action;
2.      Demurrer
by Defendant Lara to the entire Complaint for failing to state sufficient facts
sufficient to constitute a claim.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
Fox Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety;
2.      Defendant
Lara’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety;
3.      Leave
to amend is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Orlando Garcia (Plaintiff)
filed a Verified Complaint against Defendants Link Investment Group, LLC, Fox
Holdings, LLC, Tal Hassid, Alona Hassid, and Nathalie Lara (Defendants) with
nine causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Eviction; (2) Violation of Civil Code
1940.2; (3) Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision; (4) Negligence; (5) Unfair
Business Practices; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (8) Violation of County of Los
Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (RSPTO); (9) Elder Abuse – Physical and
Emotional Abuse (Cal. WIC Sec. 15600, et seq.).
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff leased and occupied a
two bedroom dwelling located at 1631 Nadeau St., Los Angeles, CA 90001 (the
Property). Plaintiff alleges Defendants wrongfully evicted him from the Property.

 
On July 2, 2024, the Fox Defendants filed the instant
demurrer.
 
On August 1, 2024, Defendant Lara filed the instant
demurrer.
 
On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed what is labeled an
opposition to the Fox Demurrer that indicated Plaintiff had passed away.
 
On November 6, 2024, the court held a hearing on the Fox
Defendants’ demurrer whereby counsel conferred with the court regarding status
of a personal representative for the deceased Plaintiff.
 
On November 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed untimely oppositions
to the Fox Defendants’ and Defendant Lara’s demurrers. Reply briefs were due on
or before November 22, 2024. As of November 26, 2024, the court has not
received reply briefs.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations
pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. (CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so
satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant
to CCP §430.41(a)(2) & (3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to
motions to strike. (CCP § 435.5.)
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿ 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court grants the Fox Defendants’
request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452(d), (h); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes
judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content
and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Fox Defendants’ Demurrer
 
First Cause of Action:
Wrongful Eviction
 
The Fox Defendants contend that this claim fails because a
landlord cannot be held liable for wrongful eviction when they recover
possession pursuant to orderly judicial process. Plaintiff argues their claim
survives because they alleged Defendants used fraud to evict Plaintiff by
providing a deficient proof of service on the court in the unlawful detainer
matter.[2]
 
Plaintiff’s claim for wrongful eviction is premised on
violation of Civ. Code § 789.3. That section prohibits landlords from interrupting
or terminating utility services with the intent to terminate a tenancy. (Civ.
Code § 789.3(a).) It also prohibits landlords from intending to terminate a
tenancy by: (1) “[p]reventing the tenant from gaining reasonable access to the
property by changing the locks . . .”; (2) removing “outside doors or windows”;
or (3) removing “from the premises the tenant’s personal property . . . .” (Id. at subd. (b).) However, that section
“shall [not] be construed to prevent the lawful eviction of a tenant by
appropriate legal authorities . . . .” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claim fails because they allege the
Sheriff locked them out of the Property after an Unlawful Detainer action in
Defendants’ favor. (Complaint ¶¶ 24, 25, 28, 52, 56.) As plead, this is not a
violation of Civ. Code § 789.3.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the Fox Defendants’
demurrer to the First Cause of Action.
 
Second Cause of
Action: Violation of Civ. Code § 1940.2
 
The Fox Defendants contend that this claim fails because
executing on a valid writ of possession is not a violation of Civ. Code §
1940.2. Plaintiff argues this claim survives because the writ of possession was
fraudulently obtained. However, Plaintiff provides no authority supporting this
argument.
 
A landlord shall not influence a tenant to vacate a dwelling
by the following acts: 
 
“(1) Engage in conduct that
violates subdivision (a) of Section 484 of the Penal Code.
(2) Engage in conduct that
violates Section 518 of the Penal Code.
(3) Use, or threaten to use, force,
willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct that
interferes with the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the premises in violation
of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm in a
reasonable person. Nothing in this paragraph requires a tenant to be actually
or constructively evicted in order to obtain relief.
(4) Commit a significant and
intentional violation of Section 1954.”
(Civ. Code § 1940.2(a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claim against the Fox Defendants is not
for any of the aforementioned conduct. Instead, as discussed above, the
misconduct is pursuing an Unlawful Detainer action. (Complaint ¶¶ 24, 25, 28,
52, 56.)
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the Fox Defendants’
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.
 
Defendant Lara’s Demurrer
 
Defendant Lara contends that all of the claims against her
fail because Plaintiff has not alleged that she is the landlord and that she
cannot improperly oversee herself as an agent. Plaintiff does not dispute that
Defendant Lara is an agent but argues, without authority, that she is
nonetheless liable to Plaintiff.  
 
Here, Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged any claim against
Defendant Lara in her individual capacity. The court rejects Plaintiff’s arguments
and will not research the merits of their claim for them.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant Lara’s demurrer
to the Complaint in its entirety.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a
reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect. (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018, 1035.) The burden is on Plaintiff to establish that
the defect is reasonably capable of cure with leave to amend. (Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723,
742.) Here, Plaintiff did not request leave to amend. The court is inclined to
deny leave to amend because Plaintiff is deceased and counsel has not indicated
who, if anyone, will succeed his claims.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.The Fox Defendants’ Demurrer is
SUSTAINED in its entirety;
2.Defendant Lara’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED in its entirety;
3.Leave to amend is DENIED.
 
Pursuant to CCP § 581d, this written order of dismissal
constitutes a judgment as to Defendant Reddit, Inc. and shall be effective for
all purposes. The Clerk shall note this judgment in the register of actions in
this case.
 
The Fox Defendants are to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 3, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


