  Case Number:  21STCV06691    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff Sylvia Santiago’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories from Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals is GRANTED in part. As to
Interrogatories No. 80, 81, and 83, Plaintiff may obtain discovery concerning
only non-managerial RNs in the following departments at the Baldwin Park
facility: Labor & Delivery,
Acute Care Obstetrics – Unit 1, Neo Natal ICU – Unit 1, and
Obstetrics/Gynecology. The motion is DENIED as to Interrogatory No. 82.
No sanctions are awarded.
 
 
I.      
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to
the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010(a).) If a
propounding party is not satisfied with the response served by a responding
party, the former may move the court to compel further interrogatory
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300;
Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  The propounding party must demonstrate that
the responses were incomplete, inadequate or evasive, or that the responding
party asserted objections that are either without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a)(1)–(3); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 403.)
Plaintiff Sylvia Santiago moves to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories No. 80–83 from Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals (Defendant). These Interrogatories seek the following
information:
 
·        
80: For
every individual YOU hired as a Registered Nurse at Baldwin Park between
January 1, 2017 and the present, state their full name, date of hire, date of
birth, job title, department, date of separation, and reason for separation.
·        
81: For
every individual EMPLOYED as a Registered Nurse at Baldwin Park who has separated
their EMPLOYMENT with YOU between January 1, 2017 and the present, state their
full name, date of hire, date of birth, job title, department, date of
separation, and reason for separation.
·        
82: For
every individual YOU hired as a Registered Nurse at Baldwin Park between
January 1, 2017 and the present, IDENTIFY the individual who made the hiring
decision on YOUR behalf.
·        
83: For
every individual EMPLOYED as a Registered Nurse at Baldwin Park who has separated
their EMPLOYMENT with YOU between January 1, 2017 and the present, IDENTIFY the
individual who made that decision on YOUR behalf.
 
(Separate Statement.) Defendant initially
responded to these interrogatories with objections, on the grounds that the
information sought was private, irrelevant, and burdensome to obtain, but
provided supplemental responses indicating its potential willingness to provide
responsive information relating to Plaintiff’s department, and for employees
terminated for the same nominal reason as herself. (Separate Statement.)
 
The parties met and conferred, and to date have
evidently eliminated all contention as to Interrogatory No. 82. (Opposition at
p. 8; Mohrsaz Decl. ¶ 10.)[1]
The parties also agreed that, as to the information concerning the registered
nurses, any information produced would be limited to non-managerial employees.
(Motion at pp. 8–9.) However, Defendant proposed to limit the scope of
information to particular departments in which Plaintiff worked: Labor &
Delivery, Acute Care Obstetrics – Unit 1, Neo Natal ICU – Unit 1, and
Obstetrics/Gynecology. (Motion at p. 8.) Defendant also proposed that the RNs
identified be limited to those with particular reasons for termination that
overlapped with Plaintiff’s allegations: involuntary termination for failure to
return from leave; voluntary termination due to the employee not returning from
leave; employee dissatisfaction; or no reason for termination offered. (Motion
at pp. 8–9.) Plaintiff argues that limiting the information by department and
termination reason is unwarranted. (Motion at p. 9.)
 
Plaintiff argues that the information sought
is relevant because hiring, termination, age, and contact information for other
RNs would provide the basis for conducting a statistical analysis of
Defendant’s hiring and firing of similarly situated employees. (Motion at p.
5.) Plaintiff relies principally on two cases: Diaz v. American Telephone
& Telegraph (9th Cir. 1985) 752 F.2d 1356, and Puerto v.
Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242. 
 
In Diaz, the
Ninth Circuit reversed a trial court’s summary judgment ruling in a Title VII
case, in which the court had declined to rule upon the plaintiff’s motion to
compel the defendant “to provide . . . information about its hiring and
promotion patterns in the Western Region (covering the Western portion of the
United States).” (Diaz, supra, 752 F.2d at p. 1362.) The court
held that “[s]tatistical evidence is unquestionably relevant in a Title
VII disparate treatment case,” and that the plaintiff could obtain statistics
concerning the broader region beyond his particular district, because the
plaintiff alleged “that his employer . . . engages in a region-wide policy of
discrimination,” and “[t]he existence of a pattern of racial disparity in AT
& T's employment decisions would allow for an inference about its motives.”
(Id. at p. 1363.) In the present motion, Plaintiff argues that under
this authority, “Plaintiff would be entitled to discover statistical data for
[Defendant]’s entire west coast region. Instead, she seeks far narrower
discovery only pertaining to the facility she worked at.” (Motion at p. 11.)
 
In Puerto v. Superior Court
(2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, the appellate court reversed a trial
court order requiring prior opt-in from 2600 to 3000 employees before the
wage-and-hour plaintiffs could obtain their contact information, after the
employer had identified them as percipient witnesses in its interrogatories The
court held that “[t]he disclosure of the names and addresses of potential
witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial discovery” (Id. at
p. 1249–1250),  and that while the
employees had a reasonable expectation in their contact information retained by
their employer, “a percipient
witness's willingness to participate in civil discovery has never been
considered relevant—witnesses may be compelled to appear and testify whether
they want to or not.” (id. at pp. 1251–1252.) In the present motion, Plaintiff
argues that, “[j]ust as in Puerto, Plaintiff’s coworkers are potential
percipient witnesses to the discrimination and harassment Defendant is alleged
to have committed and which Plaintiff contends pervaded Baldwin Park in the
years leading up to her termination.” (Motion at p. 12.)
Plaintiff’s authorities are inapposite. Diaz
concerned the discovery of “statistical information,” specifically regarding
the employer’s hiring and promotion patterns. (Diaz, supra, 752
F.2d at p. 1364.) But the discovery at issue here does not seek statistical
information; it seeks the individual names, ages, hiring dates, and causes of termination
for each RN at the Baldwin Park facility since 2017. This information’s
relation to the Diaz  decision is
that Plaintiff claims it is necessary to “allow Plaintiff to conduct any
meaningful statistical analysis.” (Motion at p. 13.) There is thus a key
difference from Diaz: in that case, statistical information was
the material sought. Here, statistical information is the reason why
Plaintiff seeks the material at issue. Plaintiff thus reads Diaz to
embrace a far broader rule of discovery than it announced. While Diaz
permits a party to seek statistical information, it does not speak to a
plaintiff’s right to obtain personal information concerning each individual
datum upon which the statistics are based. The contrary position lacks any
limiting principle, which Plaintiff demonstrates by contending that the Diaz
decision entitles her to documentation concerning each and every employee
discharged by Defendant across its entire west coast operations, all to
vindicate her individual discrimination claim. (Motion at p. 11.) This is
overbroad discovery.
Nor is Puerto of much help to Plaintiff, for the
simple reason that the contact information in that case was for individuals who
had previously been identified by name as percipient witnesses. In that case,
the employer was asked to identify all individuals with knowledge concerning
the wage-and-hour claims at issue, to which the employer responded with
“between 2600 and 3000 names and positions.” (Puerto, supra, 158
Cal.App.4th at p. 1246.) When the employer attempted to backtrack
from its prior identifications by withholding contact information, the
appellate court admonished its attempt to “escape the significance of its
disclosure of the list of employees and job titles as a supplemental response
to Form Interrogatory No. 12.1, which seeks the identification of those people
[the employer] knows or claims to be percipient witnesses.” (Id. at p.
1248.) Here, Plaintiff offers no basis to believe that every RN in the Baldwin
Park facility is a percipient witnesses with knowledge related to her claims. 
Puerto’s relevance to
this case is rather to establish the legitimacy of Defendant’s privacy
objections. The court there held that employees possessed a reasonable
expectation of privacy in their contact information. (Puerto, supra,
158 Cal.App.4th at p. 1252.) The court also held that this
disclosure did not mark a serious intrusion upon this expectation, as it
consisted only of contact information for individuals whose identities as
percipient witnesses had already been revealed. (Id. at p. 1253–1254.)
Here, however, the identity of the individuals has not yet been disclosed. Nor
is there any showing as to whether or which of them are percipient witnesses. And
finally, the interrogatories also seek the employees’ dates of birth, duration
of employment, and the reasons for their termination. Plaintiff thus seeks
“personnel information” beyond mere means of contacting percipient witnesses, a
notably more intrusive measure than that contemplated in Puerto. (Id.
at p. 1253.) 
It is therefore necessary to
balance the privacy interests of the individuals whose information is requested
against the utility of this information for this litigation. “If there is a
reasonable expectation of privacy and the invasion of privacy is serious, then
the court must balance the privacy interest at stake against other competing or
countervailing interests, which include the interest of the requesting party,
fairness to the litigants in conducting the litigation, and the consequences of
granting or restricting access to the information.” (Puerto, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at p. 1251.)
Plaintiff argues that the information sought is relevant
for two reasons, beyond statistical analysis. First, Plaintiff claims to allege
a disparate impact claim, to which this discovery will prove relevant. (Motion
at p. 11.) Second, Plaintiff argues that information for employees outside her
department is relevant because one of the accommodations sought by Plaintiff
was a transfer out of her department. (Motion at p. 9.)
Neither contention is persuasive. Plaintiff alleges no
discrete count for disparate impact, and her allegations on this theory are
limited to the sentence, “The policies of Defendants which were neutral on
their face resulted in a disparate impact on the class of disabled employees
including plaintiff who was treated differently because of her disability.”
(Complaint ¶¶ 47, 58, 68.) Neither this allegation nor the other allegations in
the Complaint make reference to the particular policy with which Plaintiff
takes issue, as is requisite for a disparate impact claim. (See Villafana v.
County of San Diego (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1012, 1017.) Moreover, the
allegation furnishes no “subject matter” upon which any discovery, or good
cause therefore, can be based. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Finally, Plaintiff
does not explain how her applications to transfer to other departments relate
to hiring and firing data for the RNs who worked in those departments.
Defendant is therefore entitled to a restriction on the
scope of these interrogatories to those departments in which Plaintiff worked,
i.e. Labor & Delivery, Acute Care
Obstetrics – Unit 1, Neo Natal ICU – Unit 1, and Obstetrics/Gynecology. Interrogatories
limited to these departments are more likely to reveal individuals with
knowledge of Plaintiff’s claims and who may have experienced conduct similar to
what Plaintiff experienced at the hands of the same decision makers. (See
Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy/Spastic Children's Foundation of Los
Angeles and Ventura Counties (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 759.) They are
also more likely to have statistical bearing upon Plaintiff’s allegations. These
same factors, however, weigh against adopting Defendant’s other proposed
limitation to only those employees whose terminating circumstances were similar
to those alleged by Plaintiff here. Thus while the interrogatories are properly
limited by department, no limitation based on the reason for termination is
proper.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED in part. As to
Interrogatories No. 80, 81, and 83, Plaintiff may obtain discovery concerning
only non-managerial RNs in the following departments at the Baldwin Park
facility: Labor & Delivery, Acute
Care Obstetrics – Unit 1, Neo Natal ICU – Unit 1, and Obstetrics/Gynecology.
The motion is DENIED as to Interrogatory No. 82. 
II.    SANCTIONS
Statute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon
a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response
to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for
admission, absent substantial justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
Plaintiff seeks $6,960.00 in sanctions, representing 11.5
hours of attorney work at $600 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee. (Mohrsaz Decl.
¶¶ 11–12.) As Defendant’s opposition to the motion was with substantial
justification, no sanctions are warranted. 
 


