  Case Number:  23PSCV00287    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative
Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’ Application for Default Judgment is TBD:
DENIED without prejudice, or, in the alternative, GRANTED upon dismissal of the
individual defendant. 
 
Background
 
This is a breach of contract case. Plaintiff Progressive
Real Estate Partners L.P. alleges the following against Defendants Robert H Ko
(“Ko”) and Celda Inc.: Plaintiff is a commercial real estate broker who entered
into two separate written Exclusive Listing Agreements with Defendants that
gave Plaintiff the exclusive right to negotiate leases on behalf of Defendants.
Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiff a commission for its services for the
procuring of a tenant at two listings at the rate of six percent (6%) for a
lease term for years one through five, and four percent (4%) for years five
through ten. Plaintiff has procured tenants, but Defendants have not paid
Plaintiff the $85,647.27 commissions owed (not including interest, cost, and
attorney fees). 
 
On January 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit for: 1.     Breach
of Contract 2.     Open
Book Account 3.     Account
Stated
On April 24, 2023, default was entered against Defendants. 
 
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant default
judgment application.
 
Discussion
 
The only defect the court finds is that Plaintiff seeks to
hold the individual Defendant Ko personally liable as well. 
 
It is
well-established that directors, managers, and/or officers are not
personally liable on contracts signed by them for and on behalf of the
corporation unless they purport to bind themselves individually. (United
States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.) 
 
Here, however, according to a review of the
agreements, Ko is not designated as a guarantor but merely as the owner
of Celda, Inc. (Complaint p. 12 of 18 of PDF; p. 18 of 18 of PDF.)
Accordingly, as Ko signed the agreements in the scope of his employment for and
on behalf of the corporation, and not as a contracting party (ibid), Ko cannot be
personally liable on the contract. 
 
Conclusion
 
Should Plaintiff dismiss Ko from the request for default
judgment and should Plaintiff file an amended/revised JUD-100 form, the court
will grant the request for entry of default judgment. Should Plaintiff not
dismiss Ko, the application is denied without prejudice. 
 
 