 Case Number:  23STCV19539    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  48       SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      FRANK ROJAS,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.,                           Defendant.   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )            CASE NO.: 23STCV19539   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S    MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES; GRANTING IN PART    PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS   Dept. 48 8:30 a.m. March 7, 2024      On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff  Frank Rojas filed this action against Defendant Volkswagen Group of America Inc.  arising from Plaintiff’s purchase of an allegedly defective vehicle. On  September 6, 2023, Plaintiff served Special Interrogatories (Set One) and Request  for Production of Documents (Set One) on Defendant.  (Rivero Decl. ¶¶ 25-26.)  On October 30, 2023, pursuant to an extension  of time, Defendant served responses.  (Rivero  Decl. ¶¶ 28-29.)  After meeting and conferring  and granting extensions, Plaintiff filed motions to compel further responses on  January 29, 2024.  (Rivero Decl. ¶¶ 30-35  & Exs. 16-21.) MOTION  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES A  party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding  party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option  to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit  or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,  subd. (a).) Plaintiff  seeks further responses to Special Rog Nos. 2, 7, 17-27, and 32.  (See Notice of Motion.) Special  Rog No. 2 asks Defendant to identify all repair documents (as specifically defined  in the requests) issued for the same vehicle that pertain to the electrical defect.  This request is limited to the same vehicle and  defect alleged by Plaintiff, and it is relevant to Defendant’s failure to repair  the vehicle and failure to make sufficient service literature and replacement parts  available.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED. Special  Rog No. 7 asks Defendant to identify all documents on which Defendant relies in  determining whether a consumer complaint constitutes a substantial impairment.  This is relevant to Defendant’s refusal to repair  or replace the vehicle and whether Defendant acted willfully.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED. Special  Rog Nos. 17-27 ask Defendant to identify all documents (1) underlying its publication  of Technical Service Bulletins 2061257/2, 2071185/1, 2069747/3, 2068435/1, 2063913/4, 2063913/6,  and 2067557/1 to its network of authorized dealerships; (2) underlying its publication  of  Recall 91DZ to its network of authorized  dealerships; and (3) intended to address the conditions resulting in activation  of DTC U0447-00, DTC U0155-00, and DTC U10C0-00.  Defendant objected and responded, “Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230, please see and dealer repair orders (Exhibit  C) and Recall/TSBs (Exhibit G) produced in response to the Plaintiff's request for  production.”  Plaintiff has not shown why  this response is deficient.  Defendant’s objections  are overruled.  The motion is DENIED. Special  Rog No. 32 asks Defendant to identify all databases that Defendant or its agents,  employees, and/or representative maintain which contain electronically stored information  relating to Defendant’s efforts to investigate, diagnose, assess, determine, modify,  repair, and/or evaluate the electrical defect in the same vehicle.  This is relevant to Defendant’s refusal to repair  or replace the vehicle and whether Defendant acted willfully, and Plaintiff requests  only the identity, not the contents, of the databases.  Defendant’s boilerplate objections are overruled.  Defendant’s objections erroneously refer to “BRAKE  DEFECT(S),” and it is not apparent how the identity of databases “seeks information  from third parties and/or information equally available to Plaintiff” and “seeks  the disclosure of information protected by the attorney-client and work-product  privileges . . . [and] seeks the premature disclosure of expert information.”  This further highlights the boilerplate nature  of Defendant’s objections.  The motion is  GRANTED. The  motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above.  Defendant is ordered to provide verified, supplemental  responses within 30 days. MOTION  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS A  party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents  if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is  incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,  or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing  good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) Plaintiff  seeks further responses to RFP Nos. 7, 8, 10-14, and 27-30.  (See Notice of Motion.) RFP  No. 7 seeks the Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals published by Defendant and  provided to Defendant’s authorized repair facilities within California from 2021  to the present.  After objecting, Defendant  responded that it would produce all non-privileged documents for its “policies/procedures  and training materials pertaining to the pre-litigation handling of California consumers’  repurchase/replacement requests,” upon execution of a protective order.  Defendant’s overbreadth objection is sustained,  and all other objections are overruled.  This  request seeks materials beyond those applicable to Plaintiff’s vehicle and the alleged  defects.  The motion is GRANTED IN PART.  Defendant must produce the requested materials  for only the same make and model as Plaintiff’s vehicle. RFP  No. 8 seeks a copy of the Workshop or Service Manual specifying diagnosis and repair  procedures for the same vehicle.  This request  is limited to the same vehicle, and it is relevant to Defendant’s failure to repair  the vehicle and failure to make sufficient service literature available.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED. RFP  Nos. 10-14, 27-30 seek all documents (1) constituting any internal analysis or investigation  by Defendant regarding the electrical defect in the same vehicle; (2) reflecting  Defendant’s decision to issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions,  technical service bulletins and recalls concerning the electrical defect in the  same vehicle; (3) containing customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and  warranty claims regarding the electrical defect in the same vehicle; (4) reflecting  failure rates of the same vehicle due to the electrical defect; (5) constituting  any fixes for the electrical defect in the same vehicle; (6) of communications between  Defendant and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regarding the electrical  defect in the same vehicle; (7) of NHTSA complaints regarding the electrical defect  in the same vehicle; (8) of Early Warning Reports that Defendant submitted to the  NHTSA regarding the electrical defect in the same vehicle; and (9) of TREAD reports  that Defendant submitted regarding the electrical defect in the same vehicle.  This is limited to the same defect and vehicle  alleged by Plaintiff, and it is relevant to Defendant’s refusal to repair or replace  the vehicle and whether Defendant acted willfully.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED. The  motion is GRANTED IN PART as set forth above.   Defendant is ordered to provide verified, supplemental responses within 30  days. Moving  party to give notice. Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org  indicating intention to submit.  If all parties  in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are  required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)  is also on calendar.             Dated this 7th day of March 2023                     Hon. Thomas D. Long Judge of the Superior    Court        