 Case Number:  23STCV24825    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KEVIN GARLINGTON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TAMMY Y. WADE, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV24825
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANT’S
  DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 7, 2024



 
On
December 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kevin Garlington filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Tammy Y. Wade, Tammy Y. Wade for Serenity
Inclusive Family Services LLC, Serenity Inclusive Family Service LLC, Crystal
Diane Adams, Tranika Yvette Hickman, South Central Los Angeles Regional Center
for Persons with Dev. Disabilities, Inc., Dexter Henderson, Cherylle Mallinson,
Isaac Curtis, Monica Mahon, Jetta Turner, Evelyn Galindo, Janice Bloomer
Buchanan, Janet Talford, Pamela Brownridge, Tameko Brownridge, Karen
Washington, Eugene Washington, Dionne Borden, and Alexandra Sanders
(collectively “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach
of contract, (3) intentional tort, and (4) general negligence.  
On
January 16, 2024, Defendant South Central Los Angeles Regional Center for
Developmentally Disabled Persons, Inc. (“SCLARC”) filed and served a demurrer
and motion to strike as to the FAC. The demurrer and motion to strike are
unopposed. 
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  A special demurrer
for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant
or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully.  (Ibid.)  “If there is any reasonable possibility that
the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.”  (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.)  
A.        The Meet and Confer Requirement Has
Been Met.
Before
filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading sought to be demurred to, in person or
telephonically or by video conference, for the purposes of determining whether
an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  An insufficient meet and confer process concerning a
demurrer is not grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(4).)  A motion to
strike has similar meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.) 
Counsel
for Defendant SCLARC, Michael R. Mauge (“Mauge”), declares that on June 10,
2024, he spoke with Plaintiff telephonically and no agreement was reached on
the issues underlying Defendant SCLARC’s demurrer and motion to strike. (Mauge
Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
B.        The FAC is not Uncertain.
Initially,
the Court will address the argument of Defendant SCLARC that the FAC is vague
and uncertain. The Court rejects such contention as the alleged acts of
Defendant SCLARC are sufficiently identified in the FAC. While the FAC may not
be as clear and cohesive as Defendant SCLARC would like, the FAC is clear
enough for Defendant SCLARC to ascertain the claims asserted against Defendant
SCLARC. Thus, the Court overrules the demurrer of Defendant SCLARC on the
grounds of uncertainty. 
The
Court notes, as a tertiary issue, that the demurrer is only brought on behalf
of Defendant SCLARC yet makes arguments as to Defendants Dexter Henderson,
Cherylle Mallinson, Isaac Curtis, Monica Mahon, Jetta Turner, and Evelyn
Galindo. The Court will only analyze whether the FAC states a sufficient cause
of action against Defendant SCLARC only since the other defendants did not file
a demurrer as to the FAC. If another defendant wished to challenge the
sufficiency of the FAC, then such defendant should have joined the demurrer or
otherwise filed a demurrer to the FAC. 
C.        The Second Cause of Action for Breach
of Contract is Insufficient.
Defendant
SCLARC argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract fails.  (Demurrer at pp. 8-9.)
“The
standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178, citation omitted.) 
The
FAC alleges that, on February 4, 2019, Plaintiff, Original Serenity, and Tammy
Y. Wade entered into a contract. (FAC ¶ 18; Exhibit A.) On or about July 10,
2023, Defendant Tammy Y. Wade defaulted on the LLC Operating Agreement by
conducting a conversion of the Original Serenity. (FAC ¶ 18.) The FAC alleges
that Defendant Tammy Y. Wade and Defendant SCLARC are withholding rights to the
company, interest thereto, and even profits from Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 18.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Tammy Y. Wade also organized a new LLC, with a
similar name to the Original Serenity, against and without Plaintiff. (FAC ¶
18.) 
Although
purporting to attach the written contract thereto that is the subject of the
second cause of action in the FAC, the Court notes that Plaintiff did not
attach a written contract to the FAC. The purported written contract is
attached to the initial complaint in this action and is therefore before the
Court. The Court finds that the second cause of action for breach of contract
does not allege that Defendant SCLARC was a party to the LLC Operating
Agreement.  Thus, based on the
allegations of the FAC, there is no contract between Plaintiff and Defendant
SCLARC. A review of the Operating Agreement shows that Defendant SCLARC is not
a signatory to such an agreement. Plaintiff has therefore failed to state a
cause of action for breach of contract against Defendant SCLARC. 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained. 
D.        The Third Cause of Action Intentional
Tort is Insufficiently Alleged.
Defendant
SCLARC contends that the third cause of action fails. (Demurrer at pp. 9-10.) 
Pursuant
to the third cause of action, the FAC alleges that Defendant SCLARC “intentionally
collaborated and intentionally assisted in the conversion of Original Serenity and
intentionally assisted in breach of the LLC Operating Agreement between
Defendant Wade and the Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 19.) Based on the allegations of the
third cause of action, it appears that Plaintiff is alleging both conversion
and intentional interference with contractual relations causes of action against
Defendant SCLARC. The third cause of action is labeled “Intentional Tort.” 
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.”  (Lee v.
Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
The
elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2)
defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.”  (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)
The
FAC does not allege a cause of action for conversion against Defendant SCLARC as
there is no allegation that Plaintiff owned or had a right to property, or how
Defendant SCLARC wrongfully disposed of any of Plaintiff’s property rights.  Plaintiff has merely alleged conversion
without any sufficient facts in support thereof. 
The
FAC also does not state a claim for intentional interference for contractual
relations against Defendant SCLARC. Plaintiff does not allege a valid contract,
Defendant SCLARC’s knowledge of such a contract, or what acts Defendant SCLARC
took to disrupt a contractual relationship. 
As
such, the third cause of action does not state cause of action for intentional
tort against Defendant SCLARC. 
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained. 
E.        The Fourth Cause of Action for
General Negligence Fails.
Defendant
SCLARC contends that Plaintiff’s claim for general negligence fails.  (Demurrer at pp. 10-11.)
In
order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of
(1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.”  (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671, citation omitted.)
The FAC alleges that Defendant SCLARC “ignored whistleblower
complaints and inquiries . . . by the Plaintiff, alerting them of fraudulent
federal billing taking place against all consumers, who cannot help themselves in
this particular regard, served by their organization, whose services are under
their coordination of California Title 17 guidance, via direct e-mail and
direct telephone calls to representatives of the organization.”  (FAC ¶ 20.) 
The Court finds that the fourth cause of action for general
negligence is insufficiently alleged. Plaintiff has failed to allege the
elements of duty, breach, and causation. As such, Plaintiff has not set forth
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against Defendant SCLARC for
negligence. 
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained.
F.         Conclusion
The
demurrer of Defendant SCLARC to the second, third, and fourth causes of action
in the FAC is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. While Plaintiff is
representing himself in pro per, a pro per litigant is held to
the same standards as an attorney. (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 536, 543.) Thus, if and when a Second Amended Complaint is filed,
the Court orders Plaintiff to set forth the causes of action and facts therein in
a clear and concise manner and label such causes of action.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendant
SCLARC moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for attorneys’ fees from the FAC as
well as Plaintiffs’ claim for permanent and mandatory injunctions against
Defendant SCLARC. 
Attorneys’
fees are allowed only when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10)(A)-(C).) Here, the FAC does not allege any basis
for attorneys’ fees pursuant to contract, statute, or law. 
“To
qualify for a permanent injunction, the plaintiff must prove (1) the elements
of a cause of action involving the wrongful act sought to be enjoined and (2)
the grounds for equitable relief, such as, inadequacy of the remedy at law.” (City
of South Pasadena v. Department of Transportation (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th
1280, 1298.) 
Here,
the FAC does not allege that there is an inadequate remedy at law to warrant an
injunction against Defendant SCLARC. Moreover, only the second through fourth
causes of action in the FAC are asserted against Defendant SCLARC. As indicated
above pursuant to the Court’s discussion of the demurrer, such causes of action
are insufficiently alleged against Defendant SCLARC. Thus, Plaintiff lacks a
valid cause of action upon which to base a request for a permanent injunction
against Defendant SCLARC. 
Additionally,
given that the demurrer and motion to strike are both unopposed, there is an
inference they are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
The
motion to strike is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all
parties in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the
Court are required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management
Conference) is also on calendar. 
 
        
Dated this 7th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 