 Case Number:  23STCV26971    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JAY IMPORT
  COMPANY, INC., a New
York Corporation, 
                        Plaintiff and Petitioner,
            vs.
 
PIXIOR, LLC, a California limited
  liability
company, SEKO WORLDWIDE, LLC, an
Illinois limited liability company, and
  DOES 1
to 10, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants
  and Respondents.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV26971
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PETITION TO CONFIRM
  ARBITRATION AWARD AND DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AS MOOT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 7, 2024



 
On
November 2, 2023, Plaintiff Jay Import Company, Inc. filed this action against Defendants
Pixior, LLC and Seko Worldwide, LLC.  
On
November 6, 2023, the Court denied an ex parte application by Plaintiff to
enforce an arbitrator’s temporary order made pursuant to Plaintiff’s request
for emergency relief under JAMS Rule 2(C) on procedural grounds.
On
November 7, 2023, Defendants filed their answer and on the same day, moved to
compel arbitration and request for dismissal.
On
December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed an ADR-106 petition to confirm a “partial
final” JAMS arbitration award issued by the Hon. Barry Baskin following an
emergency hearing on November 13, 2023 (the “Partial Final Award” or “PFA”). 
On
December 26, 2023, Defendants filed their opposition to the petition. Plaintiff
replied on December 29, 2023. 
On
February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a limited opposition to Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration. 
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
This
dispute arises out of a Warehousing, Distribution & E-Commerce Fulfilment
Service Agreement (the “Agreement”) dated December 30, 2021 between Plaintiff and
defendant Pixior, LLC. Defendant Seko Worldwide, LLC acquired Pixior in August
2022. Under this Agreement, Defendants were to render services to Plaintiff at a
rate of $0.21 per cubic foot.
Section
25 of the Agreement contains an arbitration clause. 
Section
27 of the Agreement states that the agreement between the Parties as set forth
in the Agreement is the full agreement of the Parties and may not be amended
without a written instrument signed by all the Parties.
In
April 2022, Defendants sent a notice of rate increase from $0.21 per CU/FT to
$0.35 per CU/FT. Pixior’s CFO disputed the increased charges. In or about
September 2022, Pixior began charging an additional long-term storage charge
for products stored in its warehouse for longer than 90 days. During the more
than ten-year relationship between the Parties, until September 2022, Pixior
never assessed any Long Term Storage Charges against Jay, despite Jay’s having
stored goods at Pixior’s warehouse for over 90 days during that period.
Starting
January 2023, Pixior began placing Plaintiff’s goods on shipping holds due to
nonpayment of the additional charges that the parties had not agreed on in the
Agreement. 
On
October 16, 2023, Defendants sent Plaintiff a Notice of Enforcement of
Warehouseman’s Lien in the amount of $1,346,775.39. The Lien provided that
failure to pay the stated amount by October 30, 2023 would entitle Defendants
to sell Plaintiff’s goods that are stored in Defendants’ warehouse.
Plaintiff
sought an emergency arbitration hearing, which occurred on October 27, 2023. On
November 16, 2023, the arbitrator issued the Partial Final Award prohibiting
Defendants from enforcing its purported lien during the pendency of
arbitration, and requiring Defendants to allow Plaintiff to retrieve its goods
from Defendants’ warehouse. In exchange, Plaintiff posted a $500,000 bond,
which corresponds to Plaintiff’s estimate of the value of its goods in
Defendants’ possession.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The Court takes judicial notice of
the Declaration of Yassine Amallal dated October 26, 2023.
 
PETITION
TO CONFIRM PARTIAL ARBITRATION AWARD
            Legal Standard
A
party may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate an arbitration
award, and a response to a petition may request that the court dismiss the
petition or confirm, correct, or vacate the award.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1285, 1285.2.)  The petition or response must set forth (1)
the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate, (2) the
names of the arbitrators, and (3) the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators, or attach a copy.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 1285.4, 1285.6.)  The
court must either confirm the award as made, correct the award and confirm it
as corrected, vacate the award, or dismiss the proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
Under the California
Arbitration Act (“CAA”), the court must vacate the award if it determines that
(1) the award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue means; (2)
there was corruption in any of the arbitrators; (3) the rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator; (4) the
arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted; (5) the
rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the
arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor
or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the
controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions
of this title; or (6) an arbitrator making the award failed to make required
disclosures or failed to disqualify himself.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2,
subd. (a).) 
            Discussion
            Partial arbitration awards are
enforceable
Defendant
opposes confirmation of the arbitration award on several grounds. First,
Defendant argues that the PFA cannot be confirmed because it is not a proper
“award” under CCP § 1283.4, which states that “[t]he award . . . shall include
a determination of all the questions submitted to the arbitrators the
decision of which is necessary in order to determine the controversy.”
(Emphasis added.) Defendants argue that the PFA was re-styled from a temporary
restraining order previously issued by the same emergency arbitrator. In reply,
Plaintiff characterize the PFA as an incremental award that should be given
deference because it represents the arbitrator’s determination of what issues
are necessary to an ultimate decision. Hightower v. Superior Court
(2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1415 is on point. There, the court of appeal held that
the arbitrator’s partial final award was valid. The court stated that an
arbitrator can resolve certain areas of a dispute with a “partial final award”
and reserve jurisdiction to later decide, by a “final award,” issues that will
likely arise when the remedy is implemented. The court reasoned that the
principle of arbitral finality did not preclude the arbitrator from making a
final disposition of a submitted matter in more than one award. The “incremental
award process is within the “broad scope” of an arbitrator's authority to
fashion an appropriate remedy.” (Hightower, supra, at1419.)
An
injunction was proper because Plaintiff was likely to prevail on the merits and
would have suffered significant, if not irreparable harm
Secondly,
Defendants argue that the petition must be denied because the arbitrator erred
in finding that Plaintiff would be irreparably harmed by Defendants’ warehouse
lien. In explaining the elements that must be established to issue a
preliminary injunction, Defendants rely on San Francisco Newspaper Printing
Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438. Defendants make an
improper pin cite, and nowhere in the decision does the court lay out the four
elements that Defendants allege must be met for a preliminary injunction.
(Opp’n, 12:25-26.) Instead, that case stands for the position that a
preliminary injunction must not issue “unless it is reasonably probable that
the moving party will prevail on the merits.” (San Francisco, supra,
at 442.) Here, the PFA is unequivocal that Plaintiff is likely to succeed on
the merits. “Pixior’s unilateral, unreasonable, and unconscionable conduct by
impeding Jay’s business operations is in violation of the Agreement and is
unlawful. Pixior is effectively holding Jay’s goods, and therefore its
business, for a ransom of $1.3 million.” (Petition, Attachment 8(c) [“PFA”],
10:1-3.) 
Even
though Defendants have not shown that the law requires a showing of irreparable
harm, the arbitrator did find that “Jay will suffer irreparable harm due to the
material infringement on Jay’s property rights should Respondents alienate
Jay’s Stored Merchandise through foreclosure on the Warehouse Lien before Jay’s
claims can be heard and resolved in arbitration. No amount of pecuniary
compensation would afford adequate relief given Pixior is essentially holding
Jay’s products and goods in its warehouse(s) for ransom and refusing to
distribute and/or ship Jay Import’s products and goods. Jay therefore also
suffers the difficult-to-calculate harm to Jay’s goodwill. Jay’s business
relationships, including with Amazon, will irrevocably harmed by Respondents’
unlawful conduct.” (Id., 14:12-19.)
Defendants
argue that the arbitrator impermissibly relied on the Declaration of Michael
Jacobowitz in finding irreparable harm. However, Jacobowitz sufficiently laid
foundation for his knowledge by declaring that he is the Vice President of
Plaintiff Jay Import Company, Inc., and that he is familiar with Plaintiff’s
business records in relation to Defendants. (Kaufman Decl., Exh. 3 [“Jacobowitz
Decl.”], ¶¶1-2.) In finding irreparable harm to Plaintiff’s business, the TFA
notes that “Pixior put Jay’s goods on hold a total of twelve times in 2023.
Some of the shipping holds were more egregious and expensive for Jay than
others. For instance, during the June shipping hold, Pixior turned away
multiple trucks that had appointments at Pixior’s warehouse to pick up Jay’s
goods and take them to Jay’s retail customers. . . . Pixior’s actions have
rendered Jay unable to fulfill orders of its products and goods from
third-party buyers on at least twelve different occasions.” (TFA, 6:18-25.
Internal citations omitted.) There is proper evidentiary basis for the
arbitrator’s order for a preliminary injunction. 
Defendants
could not require Plaintiff to pay waived long-term storage fees
Thirdly,
Defendants argue that the petition must be denied because the arbitrator erred
in finding that the parties had waived long-term storage fees. $773,231 of the
total $1,291,776 in dispute as of September 2023 arises from Defendants’
imposition of long-term storage fees. Defendants argue that they were entitled
to charge those fees, despite the parties’ course of dealing and performance up
to that point, because the Agreement contained an enforceable anti-waiver
clause. No-waiver clauses like the one in the Agreement are commonplace.
California courts have often found that course of dealing and performance may
modify a contract or estopp a party from deviating from established
expectations. (See, e.g., Gould v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1176, holding that an antiwaiver provision itself may be
waived; and Wind Dancer Production Group v. Walt Disney Pictures (2017)
10 Cal.App.5th 56, holding that the existence of an antiwaiver clause does not
establish that, as a matter of law, it was unreasonable for the plaintiffs to
rely on the defendant’s course of conduct.) The mere fact that the Agreement
contained a no-waiver provision does not mean that PFA was erroneously decided.
An
arbitrator may grant relief as necessary
Lastly,
Defendants argue that the petition must be denied because the arbitrator
exceeded his powers by ordering relief that Plaintiff did not seek in its
complaint. Specifically, the operative complaint in the JAMS arbitration does
not seek injunctive relief. Plaintiff does not dispute this. However, there is
no requirement that a request for injunctive relief be included in a complaint.
At the very least, Defendants do not point to any authority to the contrary. In
fact, the plain meaning of CCP § 526 suggests that an injunction can be granted
even if it is not specifically requested. Section 526 provides that an
injunction may be granted when any part of the relief demanded consists
in restraining the commission of the act complained of, as well as when “it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action.” (CCP § 526(a)(1)-(2).) Defendant cannot
prevent confirmation of the PFA on this ground.
Accordingly,
the PFA is indeed a binding arbitration award that can be confirmed.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION
            Prior to Plaintiff’s petition to confirm the arbitration
award. Defendants had moved to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and
dismissal of the action.
            Legal Standard
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff
to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the
Court determines that an agreement to arbitrate exists, it then considers
objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.) 
The Court must grant a petition to
compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel
arbitration or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement. 
(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based
upon grounds applicable to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud,
duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
Discussion
Plaintiff
filed only a limited opposition. Plaintiff does not dispute that the parties
entered into a contract that contains an arbitration provision and are
litigating the same causes of action in a JAMS arbitration.
However,
Plaintiff opposes on three limited grounds. First, Plaintiff opposes
Defendants’ motion insofar as it is unnecessary, because the parties are in a
JAMS arbitration already. Second, Plaintiff opposes Defendants’ motion insofar
as they seek the dismissal of Plaintiff’s complaint rather than a stay pending
completion of arbitration. Third, Plaintiff opposes Defendants’ motion to the
extent it affects Plaintiff’s Petition to Confirm the Partial Final Award it received
in the JAMS arbitration, which is calendared for the same day as the hearing on
Defendants’ motion and discussed at length above.
Because
the parties are already in arbitration, Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is moot. As for Defendants’ request for dismissal of Plaintiff’s
claims, Defendants’ fails to provide supporting authority. In fact, the cases
Defendants cite in their moving papers support a stay of civil proceedings.
(Motion, 8:1-24.)
Accordingly,
the motion is denied as moot. 
 
CONCLUSION
The
petition to confirm the arbitration award is GRANTED. 
The
motion to compel arbitration award is DENIED. The Court orders a stay of
proceedings pending arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
       Dated this 7th day of March 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 