 Case Number:  22STCV17014    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CANYON COUNTRY MOBILE HOME
  ESTATES, LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ADMIRAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV17014
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 9, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant Admiral Insurance Company (“Admiral”) moves for
summary judgment against Plaintiff Canyon Country Mobile Home Estates, LLC (“Canyon
Country”).  
 
The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment.
 
Background
 
The following facts are taken from the parties’ separate
statements except where otherwise noted. The Court does not consider the
parties’ reply separate statements, which are not authorized by statute. (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252.)
 
This case is an insurance coverage dispute under an
environmental liability policy which Admiral issued to Canyon Country. The policy
for “Cleanup Costs” resulting from a “Pollution Condition.” Canyon Country owns
and operates a mobile home park (the “Property”) which has an on-site septic
system for the treatment and disposal of wastewater. 
 
The Insurance Policies
 
Admiral issued Environmental Impairment Liability Policy No.
FEI-EIL-11555-00 (the “2012 Policy”) to Canyon Country for the period of
December 5, 2012 to December 5, 2015. (UMF 9.) Admiral issued Environmental
Impairment Liability Policy No. FEI-EIL-11555-01 (the “2015 Policy”) to Canyon
Country with an effective period of December 5, 2015 to December 5, 2018.
Except for their effective dates, the two policies include the same
limitations, conditions, and terms for coverage. (UMF 15.) The FAC alleges a
violation of the 2015 Policy only.
 
The Insuring Agreements of the 2012 Policy and 2015 Policy
provide, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
“[Admiral] shall pay, up to the Limits of Liability
and in excess of the Self-Insured Retention, on behalf of the Insured
all:
 
• Cleanup Costs of the Insured;
 
• Liabilities for Property Damage to a Third
Party (including Cleanup Costs);
 
• Liabilities for Bodily Injury to a Third party,
and
 
• Defense Expenses
 
resulting from Pollution Conditions at, upon,
within, under or migrating from a Scheduled
Location which commenced during the
Policy Period or after the Retroactive Date,
if any and were Discovered and reported to
[Admiral] during the Policy Period, ….”
 
(UMF 16 [emphasis in original].)
 
The 2015 Policy defines “Cleanup Costs” as “reasonable and
necessary costs incurred in performing Corrective Actions and/or Restorative
Actions at, upon, within, under or migrating from a Scheduled Location.”
(UMF 17 [emphasis in original].)
 
“The term Corrective Actions means actions undertaken
with the prior written approval of [Admiral] to investigate, test, sample, monitor,
cleanup, remove, remediate, treat, dispose of, neutralize or immobilize Pollutants
resulting from a Pollution Condition. Corrective Actions for a Pollution
Condition shall be deemed completed when the condition of the property: 
 
• for similar property in the same geographic area as the Scheduled
Location; and,
 
• a no further action letter, closure or other approval is received
from the appropriate Regulatory Body.
 
For purposes of this Policy, “Applicable Risk Based
Standards” shall mean those standards developed by the appropriate Regulatory
Body for the cleanup of the Pollutant(s):
 
• satisfies the applicable Risk Based Standards; or
 
• based upon the land use of the Scheduled Location at
the time of inception of this Policy.”
 
(UMF 18 [emphasis in original].)
 
“The term Restorative Actions means actions undertaken
with the prior written approval of [Admiral] to repair, replace or
restore tangible property to substantially the same condition such tangible
property was in prior to being damaged during work performed in the course of
incurring Cleanup Costs.” (UMF 19 [emphasis in original].)
 
The 2015 Policy contains the following exclusions:
 
“This policy does not cover any Claims arising out
of, based upon, resulting from or with respect to:
 
Compliance Actions and Improvements Funds spent for
additions, equipment, upgrades or physical improvements to the Scheduled
Location or other property of the Insured undertaken voluntarily or to assure future
compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations.
 
Known Conditions
 
Any Pollution Conditions Discovered prior to the
inception of this Policy. This exclusion does not apply to Pollution
Conditions disclosed to the Company prior to the inception of this Policy
and specifically listed by endorsement.”
 
(UMF 20 [emphasis in original].)
 
The Coverage-Related Events
 
Canyon Country’s septic system is subject to a 2005 order
(the “2005 Order”) by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board (the
“Control Board”) which required Canyon Country to implement a wastewater
monitoring program and file quarterly monitoring reports with the Control
Board. The 2005 Order states that Canyon Country advised the Control Board in
December 2004 that Canyon Country intended to connect the Property to the Los
Angeles County sewer system as soon as a connection was available. The 2005
Order required Canyon Country to promptly implement a monitoring program for
its septic system and begin submitting reports in July 2005. (Admiral’s
Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 4.)
 
In 2013, Canyon Country started monitoring its wastewater
and discovered that the wastewater discharge from its septic system exceeded
some of the requirements of the 2005 Order. (UMF 8.)
 
On July 15, 2016, Canyon Country submitted a “General
Liability Notice of Occurrence/Claim” to Admiral, stating that the water levels
in wells at the Property showed elevated levels of unacceptable materials. (UMF
21.) Canyon Country alleges that this constituted a Pollution Condition under
the Policy. On January 26, 2017, Admiral’s counsel sent a letter to Canyon
Country requesting any kinds of proposals, estimates, contracts, and agreements
regarding Canyon Country’s plan to clean-up or remediation plan. (UMF 22.) On
April 12, 2018, Canyon Country informed Admiral that it was seriously
considering connecting the property to the local sewer system. (UMF 23.)
Although Canyon Country has produced invoices for on-site groundwater
monitoring and testing in discovery, it does not dispute that it did not
provide Admiral with any invoices relating to remediation or cleanup of the
pollutants prior to this litigation. (UMF 25.) 
 
On May 2, 2018, Canyon Country informed Admiral that it
wished to connect to the local sewer system and was seeking Admiral’s approval
to cover the cost of the connection. (UMF 26.) On May 24, 2022, Admiral denied
coverage for the claim, stating that it did not find a basis under the 2015
Policy to cover the installation of a hook-up to the local sewer system and the
ongoing business costs to provide well monitoring. (UMF 27.)
 
Canyon Country alleges that the costs associated with
connecting to the local municipal sewer system are covered under the 2015
Policy, including the costs of undertaking necessary studies, preparing plans,
obtaining permits, and purchasing rights of way or easements. (FAC ¶ 24.)
 
Procedural History
 
Canyon Country filed this action against Admiral on May 23,
2022. The operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which
alleges a single cause of action for breach of contract.
 
Admiral moved for summary judgment on January 22, 2024. Canyon
Country filed an opposition and Admiral filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court denies Admiral’s first request for judicial notice
of the FAC as moot. The FAC is already in the record. The Court grants Admiral’s
remaining requests for judicial notice and takes notice of the existence of the
subject documents as public records, but not the truth of their contents.
 
            The
Court denies Canyon Country’s first and second request for judicial notice of
the FAC and Admiral’s Answer, respectively, as moot. The Court grants Canyon
Country’s remaining requests for judicial notice and takes notice of the existence
of the subject documents as public records, but not the truth of their
contents.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court sustains Admiral’s objection to page 78 of Exhibit
H to the Picariello Declaration. Canyon Country admitted in its discovery
responses that it began sampling the groundwater in 2013 and that the analysis
of the samples taken from September 2013 to December 2015 exceeded the
groundwater limits under the 2015 Order for two of the monitoring wells. (Admiral’s
Exhibit D, pp. 19:22-28, 20:1-5.) This discovery response bars Canyon Country
from creating a triable issue of fact on this issue through the deposition of Canyon
Country’s own person most knowledgeable. (Union Bank v. Superior Court
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 592; Benavidez v. San Jose Police Dept.
(1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 853, 861, as modified on denial of reh'g (May 25, 1999).)
 
The Court overrules the parties’ remaining evidentiary
objections.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Admiral argues that its denial of coverage was proper
because (1) costs for installation of a sewer connection do not fall within the
2015 Policy’s definition of “Cleanup Costs,” (2) the “Known Conditions” and
“Compliance Actions and Improvements” exclusions preclude coverage, and (3) Canyon
Country made misrepresentations in its application for the 2015 Policy that
defeat any potential coverage. Admiral argues that each of these grounds
independently bars coverage.
 
The Court grants summary judgment on the basis of two of
these issues: (a) costs for installation of a sewer connection do not fall
within the 2015 Policy’s definition of “Cleanup Costs;” and (b) the costs at
issue in this lawsuit are subject to the “Compliance Actions and Improvements”
exclusion.
 
Cleanup Costs
 
  As laid out above,
the 2015 Policy provides for coverage of costs for Corrective Actions and
Restorative Actions. Corrective Actions are comprised of costs incurred to
investigate, test, sample, monitor, cleanup, remove, remediate, treat, dispose
of, neutralize, or immobilize Pollutants resulting from a Pollution Condition.
Restorative Actions are actions to repair, replace or restore tangible property
to substantially the same condition such tangible property was in prior to
being damaged during work performed in the course of incurring Cleanup Costs.
 
The connection of Canyon Country’s septic system to the
municipal sewer system is not a Corrective Action. The Pollution Condition at
the property was not the presence of sewage water in the septic system, it was
the presence of sewage-related pollutants in the groundwater. This is made
clear by the fact Canyon Country alleges that the elevated levels of pollutants
in the groundwater constituted a Pollution Condition, but asserts that it was
not aware of any Pollution Conditions on the Property prior to its discovery of
those pollutants in the groundwater. Thus, while the connection to the
municipal sewer system would help prevent future Pollution Conditions, it was
not a cost involved in investigating, testing, sampling, monitoring, cleaning
up, removing, remediating, treating, disposing of, neutralizing, or
immobilizing the pollutants that were already in the groundwater due to the existing pollution condition.
 
Nor is the
connection to the municipal sewer system a Restorative Action. Restorative
Actions are actions to repair the damage performed in the course of other
cleanup costs. The installation of a sewer connection does not perform that
function.
 
Canyon Country argues that it has, in discovery, produced
invoices for the monitoring and testing of groundwater – actions which it
contends are Corrective Actions – which it conducted during the 2015 Policy
period. While this may be true, Canyon Country neither alleges that Admiral
improperly denied a request to reimburse those costs nor contends here that it
actually submitted those invoices to Admiral as part of a claim under the
policy. (UMF 25.) The allegations of the complaint do not include allegations
that Admiral breached the contract by failing to cover such claims.  (See Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of
California 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1250 [the pleadings “set the boundaries of the
issues to be resolved at summary judgment”].) 
Canyon Country’s declarations and exhibits relating to the invoices do
not contain any indication that those invoices were submitted to Admiral as
part of a claim. (Keith Decl., Ex. I, J.) Without a submission of a claim as to
those costs, Admiral could not have breached the insurance policy by failing to
reimburse them.  
 
Compliance
Actions and Improvements Exclusion
 
Furthermore, the
sewer connection falls under the “Compliance Actions and Improvements”
exclusion. Canyon Country does not contest that the sewer connection was an
action taken in order to bring the Property into compliance with the 2005
Order.  In response to this argument,
Canyon Country argues only that it also seeks coverage for monitoring and testing
of groundwater.  (Opp. at p. 13 lines
12-25.)  Thus, the sewer connection is
not covered for that reason as well.
 
For these reasons, the Court grants summary judgment.