  Case Number:  21STCV24836    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT VAGABOND INN CORPORATION AND VISTA
INVESTMENTS MGMT. CO.’S MOTION TO BIFURCATE IN PART and DENYING IN PARTI. INTRODUCTIONThis is a wrongful death and
survival action. Plaintiffs JP, AD, and XP, through their Guardians Ad
Litem—Dominica Mitchell, Lynette Grullon, and Tewitt Powell—and the Estate of
Kevin Powell, Sr. (hereinafter “Plaintiffs”), filed this action against
Defendants First to Serve, Inc., and Vagabond Inn Corporation (hereinafter
"Vagabond") (collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiffs assert claims
for (1) wrongful death; (2) negligence; (3) survival action; and (4) negligent
hiring, training, and retention. Plaintiffs filed the original complaint on
July 6, 2021, and subsequently filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) on
January 1, 2022.On December 22, 2020, decedent
Kevin Powell, Sr. suffered a fatal epileptic seizure while living at Vagabond
as part of Project Roomkey, a transitional housing program. Plaintiffs allege
that, around 4:30 AM, Powell’s neighbors were alarmed by his loud grunting and
crying—typical signs of an epileptic seizure. Knowing Powell’s history of
seizures, the neighbors alerted Nurse Olivia Cobain, an employee of Vagabond,
and urged her to conduct a wellness check and provide medical assistance.
Plaintiffs claim that Nurse Cobain and Vagabond staff failed to act, resulting
in Powell’s death.On August 21, 2024, Vagabond filed
a motion to bifurcate the trial into liability and damages phases. Plaintiffs
opposed the motion on September 3, 2024, and Defendants filed a reply on
September 9, 2024. The Court held a hearing on September 24, 2024, and ordered
both Plaintiffs and Vagabond to submit supplemental briefs on the issue of
bifurcation. Plaintiffs submitted their supplemental brief on September 24,
2024, and Vagabond submitted its brief on September 26, 2024. II. LEGAL STANDARDCiv. Proc. Code §598, permits a
court to bifurcate a trial as to the issues of liability and damages when the
ends of justice and the pursuit of judicial economy is best served. “The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after
notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of pretrial
conference in cases in which such pretrial conference in cases in which such
pretrial conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days
before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall
precede the trial of any other issue or any party thereof in the case . .
.”  (CCP § 598.)  Where trial of the issue of liability as to all
causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof and the
decision of the court or jury is in favor of the allegedly liable party,
judgment in favor of that party shall be entered and no trial of other issues
in the action against that party will be had.  (Ibid.)  If the
decision of the court or jury on the issue of liability is against the party
allegedly liable, the trial of the other issues shall be had before the same or
another jury as ordered by the court. (Ibid.) “Section 598 of the Code of Civil
Procedure gives the trial court power to order ‘that the trial of the issue of
liability shall precede the trial of any other issue in the case . . . ‘Its
objective is avoidance of the waste of time and money caused by the unnecessary
trial of damage questions in cases where the liability issue is resolved
against the plaintiff.’ Cohn v. Bugas (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 381,
385.  However, the court cannot order the separate trial of an issue of
liability when because of the nature of the case it is necessary to prove the
plaintiff’s damages to establish that liability. In, Cook v. Superior Court (1971)
19 Cal.App.3d 832, 834,  the Court could not bifurcate an issue of
liability from damages in a legal malpractice case where it was necessary for plaintiff
to prove his former attorney was negligent in the prosecution of a claim and
but for that negligence, plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable result,
and the factors essential to proof of lability would also be factors essential
to proof of damages.Civil Code Section 3295(d) states
“[t]he court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant's profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294.”  Civ. Code § 3295(d).  “As an evidentiary restriction,
section 3295(d) requires a court, upon application of any defendant, to
bifurcate a trial so that the trier of fact is not presented with evidence of
the defendant's wealth and profits until after the issues of liability,
compensatory damages, and malice, oppression, or fraud have been resolved
against the defendant.”  Torres v. Automobile Club of Southern California
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 771, 777-778. III. DISCUSSIONDefendants argue that bifurcating
liability and damages is necessary to promote judicial efficiency and prevent
undue prejudice (Motion, p.3). They assert that liability can be determined by
a few key witnesses, and a separate trial on damages is premature unless
liability is first established. The events surrounding the decedent’s death
were brief, and only witnesses with direct knowledge, such as Defendant
employees and hotel residents, are relevant to liability. Defendants emphasize
that Plaintiffs were not present during the decedent’s medical emergency and
had limited contact with him before his death, making their testimony
irrelevant to liability. (Motion, p.4,6)Defendants also argue that
bifurcation would spare the minor Plaintiffs from unnecessary testimony and
prevent the jury from being influenced by emotional factors during the
liability phase. (Defendants Supp. Brief, p.3) They contend that a two-day
liability phase would suffice, given the limited witnesses and straightforward
facts, making bifurcation more efficient and less prejudicial.Finally, Defendants argue that
bifurcating punitive damages is necessary to prevent undue prejudice, as Civil
Code section 3295(d) requires evidence of a defendant’s financial condition to
be introduced only after a finding of liability, malice, oppression, or fraud.
(Defendants Supp. Brief, p.4) Plaintiffs oppose bifurcation,
arguing that liability and damages, including punitive damages, are closely
linked and cannot be separated into three phases. They contend that much of the
evidence for liability, such as testimony about the decedent's medical
condition and Defendants' actions, is also relevant to damages. Trifurcation,
they argue, would lead to witness overlap, repeated testimony, and unnecessary
complications, undermining judicial efficiency. (Opposition, p.3-4)Plaintiffs further assert that
trifurcation would not promote judicial economy but rather prolong the trial
with duplicative evidence and testimony. (Opposition, p.3-4) They maintain that
addressing all issues in a single trial would be more efficient and reduce
delays. (Opposition, p.3-4)Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that
trifurcation would unfairly prejudice them by depriving the jury of important
context during the liability phase. (Plaintiffs Supp. Brief, p.4) The
decedent’s death and the resulting harm to his family are critical to
understanding Defendants' alleged negligence. Plaintiffs also emphasize their
constitutional right to a full jury trial, asserting that separating liability
and damages would hinder the jury’s ability to fully grasp the case. 
(Opposition, p.5)At the hearing on September 24,
2024, the Court instructed the parties to file supplemental briefs regarding
the motion to bifurcate. Specifically, the Court noted that if Plaintiffs were
to seek punitive damages, bifurcation would be required. Plaintiffs correctly
pointed out that bifurcation of all damages would effectively result in
trifurcation, as Civil Code section 3295(d) mandates that evidence of a
defendant's financial condition cannot be introduced until after a verdict
awarding actual damages and a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud has been
rendered.The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
position that trifurcation—dividing the trial into separate phases for
liability, compensatory damages, and punitive damages—would impose an undue
burden on the witnesses, particularly the minor Plaintiffs, and others who
would need to travel to testify multiple times. Trifurcation would also tax already
scarce judicial resources.  Trifurcation
would prolong the trial by requiring the jury to engage in up to three rounds
of deliberations, which would necessarily be preceded by three rounds of jury
instructions.  However, pursuant to Civil Code
section 3295(d), the Court is required, upon a defendant's application, to
bifurcate the issue of punitive damages. This ensures that evidence regarding
Defendants’ financial condition will only be admissible after liability and a
finding of malice, oppression, or fraud. As Plaintiffs are pursuing punitive
damages in this case, the Court finds it necessary to bifurcate punitive
damages from the liability and compensatory damages phase of the trial.Therefore, the Court grants
Defendants’ motion to bifurcate the issue of punitive damages from the
liability and compensatory damages phases. However, the Court does not find it
appropriate to trifurcate the trial into three phases.Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
Defendants' motion to bifurcate punitive damages and DENIES Defendants' motion
to bifurcate compensatory damages.IV. CONCLUSION AND ORDERThe Court GRANTS Defendants' motion
to bifurcate punitive damages.The Court DENIES Defendants' motion
to bifurcate (trifurcate) compensatory damages. Defendant is ordered to give
notice.             Dated: October 1, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT