  Case Number:  21STCV37502    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  57 Plaintiff Zvi Sperling sued his
brother Jacob Sperling over an agreement to sell companies that they jointly
own.   Pending before the Court is the
motion of Zvi for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (“the SAC”) pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(a)(1) and 576.  Jacob opposes the motion.  The Court is granting it.Through the proposed SAC, Zvi seeks
to add five new causes of action, some of which are against new defendants.  Those cause of action and the new defendants are
as follows: intentional interference with contractual relations against new
defendant Naomi Sperling Goldman, who is Jacob’s daughter; breach of fiduciary
duty against Jacob; promissory estoppel against Jacob; constructive fraud
against Jacob; judicial dissolution against new defendant Maxim Lighting
International, Inc. (“Maxim”), which is one of the companies that Zvi and Jacob
own; and judicial dissolution against new defendant Lucca Concepts, Inc, which
is another one of the companies that Zvi and Jacob own.  Zvi also seeks to add new factual allegations
regarding his purported damages arising from Jacob’s actions and inactions based
on Maxim’s increased value since the filing of the initial complaint.
Code of Civil Procedure section
473(a)(1) provides that trial courts “may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading” to add new
parties and new claims.  In a similar
vein, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 authorizes courts, “at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, [to] allow the amendment of any pleading.”  As they have been applied through the years,
Sections 473(a)(1) and 576 manifest “great liberality” in allowing parties
leave to amend their pleadings at any stage of a case.  (Board of Trustees v. Superior Court
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1163, citation omitted.)  Indeed, denial of a request for leave to amend
is rarely justified.  Absent prejudice to
the other party, leave to amend generally should be granted routinely. (Ibid.)

Jacob maintains that he will be
prejudiced if Zvi is granted leave to file the SAC.  The Court discerns no prejudice to
Jacob.  The following considerations have
informed that determination.
First, the case is just two years
old and there are many key depositions to be taken, including the depositions
of Zvi and Jacob themselves.
Second, Zvi acted fairly promptly in
seeking leave to file the SAC after gleaning through the discovery has been
taken to date the information on which the proposed amendments are based.  Some of that information came to light only
in recent months. 
Third, Jacob’s claim of prejudice
based on his intention to file a summary judgment motion does not hold water.  The general rule in favor of liberally
granting leave to amend a complaint carries the day "even when a summary
judgment motion is pending." (Willemsen v. Mitrosilis (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 622, 633; see also Bostrom v. County of San Bernardino (1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1663–1664.)  Here,
Jacob has not yet filed his intended summary judgment motion.
Fourth, trial in this case is not
set to begin until March 18, 2024.  Thus,
the discovery and motion deadlines, which are tied to that date, are still a
ways away. In any event, the policy in favor of allowing leave to amend holds
force even when the proposed amendment comes on the eve of the start of the
trial.  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739,
760-761 [trial court erred in denying motion for leave to amend complaint that
was heard three days before the scheduled start date of the trial].   
Separate and apart from his claim of
prejudice, Jacob says that leave to amend should be denied because the new
causes of action fail to state claims. 
In that regard, Jacob’s opposition devotes much energy in opposition to
Zvi’s motion to contesting the merits of the new causes of action through what is
essentially a mini-demurrer.  And Zvi in
reply devotes much energy to defending their merits in what is essentially a
mini-opposition to a demurrer.  The Court
is declining at this stage to weigh in on this dispute.  Caselaw teaches that the better approach for
trial judges is to grant leave to amend to add new causes of action, and let
the parties fight out the merits of the causes of action through an actual
demurrer and opposition thereto.  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Zvi is directed to file his proposed
SAC by November 27, 2023.