  Case Number:  21STCV33023    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  26 TENTATIVE RULING:
Procedural Background
On
September 9, 2018, plaintiff Lola P. Thompson (Plaintiff) filed this complaint.
On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint, alleging two causes
of action against Nelnet Services, LLC (Nelnet), for (1) violations of the Fair
Debt Practices Act and the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collections Act and (2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  On December
20, 2023, the Court sustained Nelnet’s demurrer to the first cause of action
and overruled its demurrer to the second cause of action.  The Court found that “much of [Nelnet’s]
alleged conduct does not constitute outrageous conduct [as required for an intentional-infliction-of-emotional-distress
claim],” but that Plaintiff’s allegation that “Nelnet intentionally lied to the
DRG to resurrect a dead loan by falsely claiming that ‘Nelnet did not receive required
financial information during the 3-year post-discharge monitoring period’” could
“rise to the requisite level of extreme or outrageous conduct.”  (12/10/23 Order at 14-15.)
On July 25,
2024, Nelnet filed this motion for summary judgment.
On September
23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion.
On September
25, 2024, Nelnet filed a reply to the opposition.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiffs’ Objections
            The
following objections are overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
            The
following objections are sustained: None
 
Undisputed
Material Facts
            “Nelnet
had no involvement with any disputes between Plaintiff and the Internal Revenue
Service.”  (Plaintiff’s SS, 12.) “Plaintiff
suffered from emotional distress before her social security benefits were
garnished.”  (Plaintiff’s SS, 14.)  “Plaintiff is claiming that more than one
party caused her emotional distress, including but not limited to the IRS,
Nelnet, F.H. Cann & Associates (FHC), the DOE, and the Default Resolution
Group (DRG) all caused her emotional distress.” (Plaintiff’s SS, 15.) “Plaintiff
claims that she suffered from emotional distress each time she amended her
lawsuit.” (Plaintiff’s SS, 16.) “Plaintiff was homeless for reasons not caused
by Nelnet.” (Plaintiff’s SS, 17.) “The incidents referenced in Plaintiff’s
lawsuit regarding her school in Minnesota occurred before her social security
benefits were garnished.” (Plaintiff’s SS, 20.) “The incidents referenced in
Plaintiffs lawsuit regarding her school in New Mexico occurred before her
social security benefits were garnished.” (Plaintiff’s SS, 21.) “Nelnet is a
separate entity from F.H. Cann & Associates, Inc.” (Plaintiff’s SS, 23.)
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or to
establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“If the defendant meets this burden, then
the burden of production shifts to the plaintiff to establish the existence of
a triable issue of material fact. 
[Citation.]”  (Donohue v. AMN Services, LLC (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 1068, 1077.)  “A triable issue of material fact may not be created by
speculation or a ‘stream of conjecture and surmise.’  [Citations.] 
Instead, the plaintiff must produce ‘substantial responsive
evidence.’  [Citation.]”  (Miller
v. Fortune Commercial Corp. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214, 221 (Miller).)  “There is a
triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof. 
[Citation.]’  [Citation.]”  (Gabrielle
A. v. County of Orange (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1282.)
Discussion
            Nelnet
moves for summary judgment of the second cause of action against it, for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“To state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff must show:
(1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the
defendant's intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” 
(Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 819, 832.)
A defendant’s conduct is “outrageous” when
it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community. And the defendant must either intend his or her conduct to
inflict injury or engage in it with the realization that injury will result.
Liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress does not extend to
mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 (Hughes).)
“With respect to the requirement that a plaintiff show severe emotional
distress, this Court has set a high bar. ‘Severe emotional distress means
“emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no
reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.” ’ ”(Hughes,
supra, at p. 1051 (citation omitted).)
 “The attempted collection of a debt,
by its very nature, often causes the debtor to suffer emotional distress.
Frequently, the creditor intentionally seeks to create concern and worry in the
mind of the debtor in order to induce payment. However, in a society
greatly dependent upon the extension of credit, it is important that a creditor
be allowed a certain degree of freedom in demanding payment.” (Bundren v.
Sup. Ct. (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 784, 789 (Bundren).) “The applicable
test is whether or not the creditor goes beyond ‘all reasonable bounds of
decency’ in attempting to collect the debt,” considering the creditor’s
knowledge of the debtor’s susceptibility to emotional distress due to a
physical or mental condition. (Id, at pp. 789-790.)
Nelnet contends
that the second cause of action fails because Nelnet’s actions were not
outrageous and were not the cause of emotional distress that Plaintiff may have
suffered.
Outrageous
Conduct
            Nelnet is a student loan servicer
that services loans on behalf of the United States Department of Education.  (Serrano Decl., ¶ 2.)  Nelnet serviced Plaintiff’s loans after
Plaintiff applied for a total and permanent disability discharge of her loans
in November 2012. (Serrano Decl., Ex. A; Serrano Decl., ¶ 10.) In May 2013,
Nelnet sent Plaintiff two letters, informing her that it had approved her
request to discharge her student loans subject to a three-year monitoring
period and requesting financial information. (Serrano Decl., ¶ 11.) In June
2013, Nelnet informed Plaintiff that the Department of Education had discharged
her loans and that payments made after physician’s certification of the
discharge application would be refunded. (Serrano Decl., ¶ 12.) In July 2013,
Nelnet sent Plaintiff another letter requesting financial information because
the information Plaintiff had previously submitted contained information for
the incorrect time period. (Serrano Decl., ¶ 13.) Nelnet did not receive all
required information and informed the Department of Education of this, and
subsequently the Department of Education reinstated Plaintiff’s loans. (Serrano
Decl., ¶ 14-16.) Subsequently, Nelnet did not contact Plaintiff until Plaintiff
requested information from Nelnet in 2019. (Serrano Decl., ¶ 17.)
There is no indication that Nelnet’s
conduct was so outrageous as to not be tolerated in polite society. Nelnet sent
Plaintiff four letters between 2012 and 2013 requesting financial information
for the purpose of maintaining the three-year monitoring period on the
discharge of Plaintiff’s student loans, and Nelnet did not subsequently contact
Plaintiff until Plaintiff requested information. Nelnet had no special
knowledge of Plaintiff’s physical or mental condition. Nelnet has therefore
carried its moving burden to negate the “outrageous behavior” element of
intentional infliction of emotional distress. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
produce substantive admissible evidence demonstrating the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff has alleged that Nelnet
fraudulently concealed financial information from the Department of Education,
causing the Department of Education to incorrectly reinstate Plaintiff’s
student loans. (Reply, pp. 7-8.)  That
allegation was the sole basis on which this Court allowed Plaintiff’s claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress to proceed.  Plaintiff has not, however, provided admissible
evidence that creates a triable issue of fact as to whether Nelnet fraudulently
concealed financial information from the Department of Education. Most significantly,
Plaintiff has not presented admissible evidence to dispute Nelnet’s Undisputed
Material Fact No. 8, which is supported by the Serrato Declaration submitted by
Defendant, that “Nelnet did not receive all financial information Plaintiff was
required to provide throughout the three-year monitoring period.” Plaintiff also
asserts, in her opposition, that Nelnet committed identity theft against her.
(Reply, pp. 2-3.)  Again, however,
Plaintiff has not produced admissible evidence that creates a triable issue of
fact with respect to such identity theft.
“A triable
issue of material fact may not be created by speculation or a ‘stream of
conjecture and surmise.’ 
[Citations.]  Instead, the
plaintiff must produce ‘substantial responsive evidence.’  [Citation.]” 
(Miller, supra,
15 Cal.App.5th at p. 221.) Plaintiff has failed to carry her  burden to demonstrate a triable issue of
material fact on the issue of outrageous conduct.
The Court notes that,
throughout Plaintiff’s opposition, she argues that she has provided sufficient
evidence to support claims for “the fraud of deceit and concealment” and “identity
theft.”  But Plaintiff has no such causes
of action.  In her opposition, she does
not even purport to argue the elements of a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, including both the outrageous-conduct element
and the causation-of-severe-emotional-distress element.  The Court has, however, considered her
arguments concerning fraud/deceit and identity theft as intended to support a
claim of outrageous conduct.  For the reasons
set forth above, the Court finds that the arguments are not sufficient to
create a triable issue of fact.
Causation
Plaintiff alleged in her complaint that
she suffered emotional distress from her homelessness and two assaults that she
experienced between 2006 and 2011. Plaintiff has also alleged anger and stress
from the garnishment of her social security benefits.
Nelnet first began servicing Plaintiff’s
loans in 2012, and its conduct therefore could not be the cause of Plaintiff’s
emotional distress from her homelessness and two assaults that occurred before
2012. (Serrano Decl., Ex. A.; TAC, ¶¶115-118.) Ordinary anger and stress from
the garnishment of social security benefits is not considered “severe emotional
distress” in the context of intentional infliction of emotional distress. “Mere
insults, indignities, or annoyances that are not extreme or outrageous,”
resulting from attempts to collect on debts, have not been found to give rise
to a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Bundren,
supra, 145 Cal.App.3d 784, 791, fn. 8.) Nelnet has therefore carried its
moving burden to negate the causation element of intentional infliction of
emotional distress. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to produce substantive admissible
evidence demonstrating the existence of a triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff, in her opposition, argues that
Nelnet’s actions have caused her emotional distress because she has had to file
and prosecute this case. (Opp. pp. 10-11.) Plaintiff’s emotional distress
arising from the prosecution of a case is not, however, proximately caused by
Nelnet’s actions; Plaintiff’s own decisions to file and prosecute the case are
a superseding cause of such distress. Filing the complaint was her own choice. Plaintiff has also alleged that Nelnet’s alleged
fraudulent concealment caused her emotional distress. (Reply, p. 10). As
explained above, however, Plaintiff has not produced evidence that creates a
triable issue of fact whether Nelnet fraudulently concealed financial
information from the Department of Education. Plaintiff
has therefore failed to carry her  burden
to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact on the issue of causation.
             Statute
of Limitations
            Because the Court grants Nelnet’s summary
judgment motion on the above grounds, the Court does not reach Nelnet’s
argument concerning the statute of limitations.
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Nelnet’s motion
for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
Moving
party to provide notice.
 