 Case Number:  23STCV10162    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
8-7-24 
Case
#23STCV10162
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Alexis Craney-Foster 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Skyhop Global, LLC, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Leave to Amend to File a Third Amended Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Alexis Craney-Foster was an employee of defendant
SkyHop Global LLC from January 8, 2021, through September 27, 2022, as an
airport shuttle driver for airport employees. During the course of employment,
Plaintiff alleges defendant Timothy Boykin began a course of sexually
inappropriate comments and touching. On June 5, 2021, Boykin visited her home,
where he non-consensually engaged in sexual intercourse with Plaintiff while
Plaintiff was intoxicated and incapacitated in her home after normal work
hours.
 
Plaintiff complained about the conduct of Boykin, which
led, at least in part to his dismissal. New supervisor defendant Eros Surla
also allegedly engaged in sexually harassing conduct.

Plaintiff again complained, and was promised $50,000 in exchange for the
execution for a settlement agreement. Plaintiff refused. Plaintiff continued to
report the inappropriate conduct of Surla, but was told no relief was
available. Plaintiff was subsequently terminated. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 17 cause of action
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assault and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation
of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; and, Breach of Contract in
Violation of Civil Code Section 1549. On September 5, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action in the complaint with leave to
amend. 
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 16 cause of action first
amended complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assualt and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; 13; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; 15. Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
and, Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5. On December 14,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the
first amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike allegations in regard
to the conduct of Boykin without leave to amend.
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid Pro Quo
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment – Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation
of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual Assault
and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7;
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226;
Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203; and, Failure to
Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; Breach of Contract in Violation of
Civil Code Section 1549.
 
On April 10, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of
SkyHop without leave to amend as to the to seventh cause of action for sexual
assault and battery, and overruled the remainder of the demurrer. The court
granted the motion to strike the seventeenth cause of action with
prejudice/without leave to amend, and denied the remainder of the motion.
SkyHop answered the second amended complaint on April 19, 2024. On April 26,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Timothy Boykin.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff
Craney-Foster moves for leave to file a third amended complaint in order to add
a seventeenth cause of action for breach of contract. Defendant(s) challenge
the motion on grounds that Plaintiff failed to include a proposed copy of the
amended pleading showing any changes, and an insufficient necessity for the
amended pleading. Plaintiff in reply reiterates the basis of relief, challenges
the opposition as untimely, and denies any procedural flaws. Plaintiff attaches
a copy of the proposed third amended complaint.
 
A
motion for leave to amend must comply with the requirements set forth in
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324, which states as follows:
 
“(a)      Contents of motion
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)              
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;
(2)              
State what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and 
(3)              
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
 
(b)        Supporting declaration
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1)        The effect of the amendment;
(2)        Why the amendment is necessary and
proper;
(3)        When the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 
(4)              
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made 
earlier…” (emphasis added).
 
Dilatory delays and prejudice to the opposing parties is a
valid ground for denial. (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) Plaintiff seeks leave due to prior “administrative
error.” 
 
Plaintiff maintains the breach of contract claim was omitted
the claim from the first amended complaint following the demurrer to the
complaint. The May 5, 2023, filed complaint with the court in fact alleged a
claim for breach of contract as a result of Defendants’ failure to pay $50,000
pursuant to the settlement agreement. The court denied Plaintiff’s request in
opposition to the motion to strike the first amended complaint for leave to add
the breach of contract claim back into the second amended complaint on December
14, 2023, and instead directed Plaintiff file a motion for leave to amend.
Plaintiff filed the second amended complaint in conformance with the amendment
deadline prior to the subject motion for leave. 
 
The court agrees that the declaration of Shelby Radfar in
the motion lacks specific information conforming to the representations in the
motion itself. The court accepts the argument however based on its own review
of the pleadings and motion to strike minute order. The court finds the
circumstances sufficiently support the request, and the lack of any truly dilatory
conduct warrants denial of the motion for leave on this aspect. [See
Declaration of Shelby Radfar.] Defendants otherwise raise no prejudicial argument
as to the timing of the motion itself.
 
Leave to amend is generally liberally granted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(a); Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.) The court will not generally
consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion
for leave, instead deferring such determinations for a demurrer or motion to
strike, unless the proposed amendment fails to state a valid claim as a matter
of law. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Marker, U.S.A.) (1989) 213
Cal. App.3d 1045, 1048; California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280–281
disapproved of on other grounds by
Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
Defendant(s) also correctly note(s) that the motion lacks
any proposed copy of the third amended complaint in direct violation of
California Rules of Court rule 3.1324. Because the rule is mandatory and
Defendant(s) object to adherence to the rule, the court acknowledges the
defect. The court however accepts the correction of the defect through the
submitted proposed third amended complaint in the reply. The court finds no
justification for denial given the lack of any showing of prejudice with the
proposed pleading now presented before the court and the opposing parties.
Further, such a defect would only lead to a further continuance of the motion or
denial without prejudice, thereby causing further unnecessary delay on a motion
otherwise compliant.
 
The motion is therefore granted. Plaintiff to separately
file the third amended complaint within 10 days of the order.
 
The demurrer to the second amended complaint for September
30, 2024, is taken off-calendar. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice.
 