 Case Number:  23STCV20372    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
8-7-24 a/f 10-15-24
Case
#23STCV20372
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, City of Los Angeles
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Abet Security Services, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
Motion
to Strike
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Abet Security Services, Inc. alleges the existence of a contract with defendant
City of Los Angeles, including the Los Angeles Police Department, for the
provision of security services beginning on February 21, 2017. Plaintiff claims
non-payment for services rendered totaling $803,537.92 based on 24,284 hours of
labor from 2017 through August 31, 2022.
 
On
August 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage. On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its
first amended complaint for Breach of Contract. On December 29, 2023, the court
denied Plaintiff’s motion for relief.
 
On
February 14, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer to the first amended
complaint with 30 days leave to amend. On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
second amended complaint for Breach of Contract. 
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Sustained with Leave to Amend.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted in Part/Denied in Part
 
Defendant
City of Los Angeles (City) brings the subject demurrer to the second amended complaint
on grounds that plaintiff Abet Security Services, Inc. (Abet) improperly alleges
a second contract without leave of court and includes terms not agreed upon,
specifically the provision of “Field Supervisors.” Even if correctly
incorporated, City challenges any valid basis for a breach of contract based on
the conditional language regarding approval of “field supervisor” services.
Finally, to the extent Plaintiff relies on two separate agreements, the
operative complaint improperly alleges one cause for breach of contract in a
single cause of action.
 
Abet
in opposition admits to adding allegations regarding a contract executed in
2022, but maintains the breach of contract claim is properly pled, since said
agreement was previously referenced in both the complaint and first amended
complaint. Plaintiff contends the operative complaint sufficiently alleges the
claim for breach of contract. City of Los Angeles in reply reiterates the improperly
added second contractual agreement, lack of any facts supporting any claim
under one or both agreement(s), and maintains an invalid time barred government
claim.
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“To state a cause of
action for breach of contract, [a plaintiff] must plead the contract, his performance
of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, [defendant’s] breach and the
resulting damage. (Citation.) Further, the complaint must indicate on
its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.
(Citation.)” (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–59.) In examining a
breach of contract claim, the court is required to examine the terms, or at
least the legal effect of the contract. (Blank
v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p.
318 [“we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context”]; Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co., supra,
166 Cal.App.3d at p. 459 [“If the action is based on an alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated
by reference”]; Construction Protective
Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198–199 [“In an action based on a written contract, a plaintiff may plead
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language”].) 
 
The existence of the February
21, 2017, to February 20, 2020, written contract remains undisputed. [Sec.
Amend. Comp., ¶ 11, Ex. 1.] Plaintiff alleges a second February 21, 2022, through
February 20, 2025, agreement [Sec.
Amend. Comp., ¶ 23, Ex. 5.] Said agreement was in fact referenced in the
complaint and first amended complaint, though no exhibit apparently
incorporated into the pleadings. [Comp. & First Amend. Comp., ¶ 14.] The
court therefore accepts the existence of the second agreement as properly pled
with additional factual support now included in order to better withstand
challenge. (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) 
 
The
court finds no necessity to take judicial notice of said documents given the
incorporation of the agreements in the operative pleading. The court also finds
no basis of consideration for a sham pleading argument. (Owens v. Kings Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 383-384; Berman v. Bromberg (1997)
56 Cal.App.4th 936, 946 [“A pleader may not attempt to breathe life into a
complaint by omitting relevant facts which made his previous complaint
defective”].)
 
On the terms of agreements themselves, City cites to the
language of the 2017 agreement, whereby the term field/patrol supervisor is not
included in the terms of the contract. The court previously addressed this
provision and cites to it again.
 
“2.2
Statement of Work to be Performed 
A.
During the term of this Agreement, Contractor shall provide the Services, and
implement the tasks identified herein and in Attachment B, Statement of Work
(“SOW”), and Attachment 
C,
Fee Schedule. 
B.
All work and tasks are subject to City approval in accordance with the SOW.
Failure to receive approval may result in the withholding of compensation for
such work pursuant to Section 3, Compensation and Method of Payment, of this
Agreement. 
C.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Contractor shall
perform such other work within the SOW as necessary to ensure that the work
provided under this Agreement meets the requirements set forth in this
Agreement and all Attachments. 
D.
In the event that City requires services in addition to those specified in this
Agreement, Contractor agrees to provide such services in accordance with
Section 6, Amendments, of this Agreement. Prior to performance of additional
work, this Agreement will be amended to include the additional work and payment
therefor.” [Sec. Amend. Comp., Ex.
1.]
 
The
contract identifies a number of potential employees, which includes the
disputed field supervisor position: “3.1 Security Officer Types and
Qualifications [¶] Unarmed Security Officer ... Armed Security Officer ...
Armed Security Shift Supervisor ... Professional Security Officer ... Post
Commander ... Field Supervisor.” [Sec. Amend. Comp., Ex. 1: Attachment B:
Statement of Work.]
 
Notwithstanding
the identified personnel in section 3.1, the agreement also specifically
identifies the authorized employees actually part of the course and scope of
any and all provided services pursuant to a referenced schedule. “11.3 Fees [¶]
The Contractor shall submit invoices as described herein for the services
performed for which payment is requested. Said services shall be billed in the
amounts set forth in fee schedule identified as Attachment C and attached
hereto and incorporated herein by this referral. The total dollar amount that
the City will pay the Contractor for satisfactory services rendered under the
terms of this contract may be up to, but not exceed, ten million dollars
($10,000,000) annually.” [Sec. Amend. Comp., Ex. 1: Attachment B.] The fee schedule
specifically identifies the following authorized personnel: “Unarmed Security
Officer ... Armed Security Officer ... Armed Security Shift Supervisor ... Armed
Security Officer ... Post Commander ... Professional Security Officer.” [Sec. Amend.
Comp., Ex. 1: Attachment C.] 
 
The
operative complaint specifically seeks compensation for “Patrol Supervisors” as
the basis of the alleged outstanding balance. [Sec. Amend. Comp, ¶¶ 19, 21-22.]
Again, the terms of the first contract remain undisputed; “Patrol Supervisor” is
specifically omitted from the described category of compensable personnel. Paragraph
24 of the operative complaint in fact pleads to the lack of a designated fee
schedule apparently trying to somehow cure the omission, but the allegation
further undermines the claim under the first contract. “The Parties realized
that, although the position of ‘Field Supervisor’ was designated in the 2017
Agreement (See Exhibit 1, Pages 44-45), the pay rate was left out of the Fee
Schedule. The Parties rectified this inadvertent error by listing ‘Armed
Security Field Supervisor’ in the 2022 Agreement. (See Exhibit 5, Page 62.)” 
 
City
proactively challenges said allegation as in no way invoking the ratification
clause in the contract. Other than an unnumbered paragraph in the operative
complaint between numbered paragraphs 24 and 25 referencing said ratification
clause and the provision of services in “accordance” with the terms, Plaintiff
presents no argument in opposition even addressing the clause or legal basis
for acceptance of prior terms admittedly not part of the operative agreement. (City of Brentwood v. Department of Finance (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 418, 437-438.) The court therefore
finds no basis of ratification for purposes of reviewing the subject demurrer,
and declines to make the arguments for Plaintiff. 
 
Thus, consistent with
the prior demurrer, the court again finds no basis of recovery under the terms
of the 2017 to 2020 contract. The employee category list, when read in
conjunction with both the incorporated terms and allegation admitting to no
enforceable provision, again renders the claim for damages under said contract
invalid. To the extent Plaintiff incorporates BOTH agreements into a SINGLE
cause of action for relief, and at least one provision remains barred, the
court again sustains the demurrer to the single cause of action for breach of
contract.
 
The court also considers
the second agreement. To the extent Plaintiff apparently relies on the
“ratification” in “accordance” with the expired contract of two years prior to
recover the same balance accumulated from the first contractual term through
another unnumbered paragraph between numbered paragraphs 26 and 27. [Sec.
Amend., ¶¶
26-28.] Plaintiff also
incorporates an “invoice” for services rendered from April 1, 2017, to August
31, 2022. [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶ 28,
Ex. 2.] Accepting the allegations as pled, the identified exhibit actually only
shows invoices from May 18, 2022 to March 16, 2023. The “invoice” lacks any
billable amount or total value. The court declines to reconcile the disparity
between the allegations and exhibit as such consideration requires
consideration extrinsic to the four corners of the demurrer and without
supporting judicial notice.
 
Even accepting the
identified “invoice” however, the court still finds an absence of facts
establishing the basis for the claimed entire balance due, or any balance due
for that matter, given the lack of enumeration. The court also agrees with City
that the operative complaint lacks allegations of actual approval for services
rendered. Plaintiff alleges recovery based on acceptance of services rendered,
but the court finds no legal argument in the opposition directly addressing the
challenge under the plain language of the operative agreement. The court
therefore sustains the demurrer on this basis as well. 
 
The parties sparsely
raise the timeliness of government claims in the demurrer. The court declines
to consider single conclusive paragraph of argument in the demurrer without
legal support challenging the government claim requirement as to the second
contract, as well as the unsupported argument in the opposition. [Demurrer,
9:12-15; Opposition, 4:19-5:16.] While the subject matter may be more
substantively addressed in the motion to strike, given the lack of a valid
claim in the operative complaint, the court will not consider the motion to
strike, or the items in the request for judicial notice. 
 
The court also declines
to consider the District Court action, again in the request for judicial notice.
The court cannot determine the necessity of this given the lack of any apparent
presentation of any specific argument.
 
The demurrer is
therefore sustained as to the entire second amended complaint. The motion to
strike is MOOT.
 
The
court has now twice reviewed the action, and elects to sustain the demurrer
with 20 days leave to amend. “In response to a demurrer and prior to the case being
at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three
times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be
pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state
a cause of action. The three-amendment limit shall not include an amendment
made without leave of the court pursuant to Section 472,
provided the amendment is made before a demurrer to the original complaint or
cross-complaint is filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1).) Because
the first amended complaint was filed prior to any review, the court declines
to make a finding of an inability to plead a valid claim on this second review.

 
The
court grants leave to amend in order to allow Plaintiff the opportunity to
allege terms within the legally operative scope of the incorporated contracts.
Again, Plaintiff may not add any new causes of action without leave of court,
but the court will allow further clarification regarding any and all terms
material to stating a claim. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any new causes of action added without leave of
court may be subject to a motion to strike. Material changes to the operative
complaint seeking to alter or omit the material terms of the purported
agreement may also be subject to a demurrer under the sham pleading standard.
 
City
of Los Angeles to give notice. 
 