 Case Number:  23STCV03131    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ISIGN INTERNATIONAL, INC., 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THIEN PHAM, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV03131
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER 
 
Date: September 19, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Thien Pham (“Moving Defendant”)[1]
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.[2]
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of an
employment relationship.  The Complaint
alleges: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing; (3) fraud and deceit; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5)
constructive fraud; (6) conversion; (7) misappropriation of trade secrets in
violation of Civil Code section 3462; (8) violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200; and (9) declaratory relief. 
In relevant part, the Complaint alleges: In around 2016, Moving
Defendant began working for Moving Defendant as a director and Chief Technology
Officer (“CTO”).  (Complaint ¶ 6.)  In around July 2021, in response to issues
with Moving Defendant’s job performance, Plaintiff and Moving Defendant entered
into a written agreement (the “Employment Agreement”), which provided that
Moving Defendant would no longer serve as a director and specified parameters
on Moving Defendant’s conduct during the employment relationship.  (See id.)  The provisions of the Employment Agreement
restricted Moving Defendant from engaging in other business endeavors that
would conflict or interfere with the performance of his job duties.  (Id.) 
Under the Employment Agreement, Moving Defendant was also prohibited
from using or sharing Plaintiff’s confidential information, such as its
proprietary cybersecurity technologies. 
(See Complaint ¶¶ 6-9.) 

 
Between late 2021 and September 2022, when two of Plaintiff’s
officers, Wayne Taylor (“Taylor”) and Steaphan Weir (“Weir”) would ask for
updates about potential business opportunities, Moving Defendant informed them
that he was not aware of any.  (See Complaint
¶ 12.)  In late 2022, however, Taylor and
Weir learned that Moving Defendant had agreed to begin a separate business
relationship with some of Plaintiff’s former potential clients.  (Complaint ¶ 13.)  At this time, Plaintiff also learned that
Moving Defendant had shared Plaintiff’s proprietary information in furtherance
of establishing his separate relationships with these third parties.  (See id.)  After learning of Moving Defendant’s
indiscretions, Plaintiff conducted an investigation and learned that Moving
Defendant had also lied about the web data hosting vendor that Plaintiff
engaged at his recommendation; rather than being a disinterested third party
providing a direct service, Plaintiff learned the organization had contracted
out its hosting responsibilities and that Moving Defendant was financially
profiting from the arrangement.  (See Complaint
¶¶ 7, 14.)  
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the first,
second, third, fifth, and seventh causes of action on the grounds that the
Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. 
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
The meet and
confer requirement has been met.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
 
First and Second Causes of
Action
The elements of a claim for breach of
contract are: (1) the contract; (2) the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
            Moving
Defendant argues that the Complaint fails to allege a breach of contract or
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing because it neither quotes the
Employment Agreement verbatim nor incorporates a copy of the document.[3]  This argument is not persuasive.  Under California law, a plaintiff may plead
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.  (See Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.) 
Moreover, despite Moving Defendant’s arguments to the contrary, the
Complaint sufficiently alleges the legal effect of the Employment Agreement—the
limitations it imposed on Moving Defendant’s ability to pursue independent
relationships for his personal gain—and how Moving Defendant’s conduct deviated
from those limitations.  The Court
therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the first and second causes of action. 
 
Third
Cause of Action
The elements of
intentional misrepresentation are: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of
falsity; (3) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Golden
Eagle Land Investment, L.P. v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
399, 428.)  The elements of a cause of
action for fraud based on concealment/omission are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198.)  
 
Each element of
fraud-based claims element must be alleged with particularity.  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  The facts required to be pled are facts that
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.  (Id.)  Less specificity is required to allege fraud
when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy.  (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 838.)
 
            The Court finds that the allegations
of the Complaint are sufficient to satisfy the pleading requirements for
fraud-based claims.  The Complaint
alleges the specific conduct underlying the claim, and the nature of the
allegations suggests that the details of the conduct are necessarily in Moving
Defendant’s control.  The Court therefore
OVERRULES the Demurrer to the third cause of action. 
 
 
 
Fifth
Cause of Action
Constructive fraud is a unique species
of fraud applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.  (Assilzadeh v. California
Federal Bank (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.)  Most acts by an agent in breach of his
fiduciary duties constitute constructive fraud.  (Id.) 
The elements of a constructive fraud cause of action are:
(1) a fiduciary or confidential relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of
fiduciary duty); (3) intent to deceive; and (4) reliance and resulting injury.  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb
& Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131.) 
 
The Demurrer does not distinguish the
constructive fraud claim from the fraud and deceit claim or challenge the claim
on a basis other than the specificity of the Complaint’s fraud-based
allegations.  The Court finds that the
Complaint sufficiently alleges constructive fraud based on the fiduciary duty Moving
Defendant owed Plaintiff as its CTO and his intentional actions that
contravened that duty.  The Court
therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the fifth cause of action.  
 
Seventh Cause of Action
The elements of a cause of action for
misappropriation of trade secrets under the California Uniform Trade Secrets
Act (“CUTSA”) are: (1) the plaintiff’s possession of a trade secret; (2) the
defendant's misappropriation of the trade secret, meaning its wrongful
acquisition, disclosure, or use; and (3) resulting or threatened injury to the
plaintiff.  (Silvaco Data Systems v.
Intel Corp. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 210, 220, disapproved of on other
grounds by Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310.)  Under CUTSA, a trade secret has four
elements: (1) it must be comprised of “information”; (2) it must not be
“generally known”; (3) it must derive “independent economic value” from the
fact that it is a secret; and (4) it must be the subject of “reasonable”
efforts to “maintain its secrecy.”  (Civ.
Code § 3426.1, subd. (d); see Gemini Aluminum Corp. v. California
Custom Shapes, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1263.)  A misappropriation includes disclosure or use
of a trade secret of another without consent. 
(See Civ. Code § 3426.1, subd. (b).)  
 
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 2019.210, in an action alleging trade secret
misappropriation under CUTSA, before commencing discovery relating to
the trade secret, the party alleging the misappropriation shall identify
the trade secret with reasonable particularity. 
(CCP § 2019.210 (emphasis added).) 
Plaintiffs are therefore generally not required to spell out the details
of their trade secrets in pleadings but must instead describe the subject
matter of the trade secrets with sufficient particularity to separate them from
matters of general knowledge in the trade or of special persons who are skilled
in the trade to permit the defendant to ascertain the boundaries of the alleged
secret.  (See Albert’s Organics, Inc.
v. Holzman (N.D. Cal. 2020) 445 F.Supp.3d 463, 472.)  
 
Moving Defendant argues that the
Complaint fails to identify Plaintiff’s alleged trade secrets with sufficient
particularity.  The Complaint alleges
categories of Plaintiff’s proprietary and confidential information that
sufficiently defines the contours of its allegedly misappropriated trade
secrets.  (See Complaint ¶ 9.)  The Court finds that this is sufficient for
the purpose of pleading, and that any ambiguities may be clarified by the
discovery disclosures required under CCP section 2019.210.  The Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to
the seventh cause of action. 
 
Venue
            Moving
Defendant briefly contends that the Complaint does not establish that
jurisdiction or venue are proper.  This
contention is not supported by reasoned argument or citations to authority, and
the Court thus finds Moving Defendant has waived this point.  (See Moulton Niguel Water Dist.
v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  
 
            The
Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer in its entirety.  Moving Defendant is ordered to file a
responsive pleading within 20 days of the date of this order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 19th day of September 2023
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 





