

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed late as of February 08, 2024      [X] Late          [   ] None 
REPLY:                     Filed as of February 05, 2024             [   ] Late          [   ] None 
 
BACKGROUND
On September 30, 2022, Jason Carrillo (“Carrillo”) and Lenny
Villareal (“Villareal”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a cause of action
against Defendant Averiel C. Blair (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle negligence. Plaintiffs
have not filed any proof of service indicating that Defendant was served with
summons and complaint. 
On January 12, 2024, Defendant specially appeared to file the instant
Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Request for Dismissal. 
Plaintiffs filed in opposition. Defendant files in reply to note
Plaintiff’s non opposition to the motion and later files in reply to Plaintiffs
late opposition.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant prays
for an order from the Court to quash Plaintiffs’ purported service of summons
and complaint under CCP §§ 418.10 and 413.10. Defendant argues that the summons
and complaint were not correctly and personally served on Defendant or in any
other lawful manner consistent with CCP 415.10, 415.20, 415.21, 415.30, and
415.50. Defendant additionally argues that Plaintiffs have not demonstrated
proper service of summons and complaint because they have not filed proof of
service with the Court for more than fifteen (15) months.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that the only pleading they received was “Defendant’s Notice
of Non-Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Request
for Dismissal” and state that Plaintiff’s counsel has never received
Defendant’s Motion to quash. Plaintiffs further note that no court order or
agreement between the parties provides for electronic transmissions. Plaintiffs
assert that counsel only received Defendants’ notice of non-opposition, so they
could not file timely opposition papers to the motion. Therefore, Plaintiffs
request the Court to vacate Defendant’s motion and order Defendant to properly
serve the motion on Plaintiffs.
 
REPLY
 
            In reply,
Defendant notes the Plaintiffs’ non-opposition and reasserts their prayer for
the Court to exercise its discretion and grant in full Defendant’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons and Request for Dismissal. The Court notes that on
February 08, 2024, Defendant responds to Plaintiffs’ opposition, noting that
the opposition is untimely and argues that Defendant did serve Plaintiffs with
the motion via email after receiving proof of service via email from
Plaintiffs’ counsel. Alternatively, Defendant indicates that she is amenable to
a continuance of the hearing to allow both Plaintiffs and Defendant to fully
brief the motion.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 “‘Service of process, under
longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is fundamental to any
procedural imposition on a named defendant.’ [Citation.]” (AO Alfa-Bank v.
Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189, 202.) “To establish personal
jurisdiction, compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is
essential.” (Kremerman v. White (2021). 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 371.)
Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not dispense with statutory
requirements for service of summons. (Kappel v. Bartlett (1988) 200
Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.) 
 
“A defendant, on
or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time
that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her” that
results from lack of proper service. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1). A
defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to file a responsive
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).) 
 
“When a defendant
challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service
of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) 
 
“Evidence Code
section 647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of service
establishes a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the
facts stated in the declaration. [Citation.]” (American Express Centurion
Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)
 
II.        Discussion 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
service of summons and complaint is defective in so far as it has not provided
her with actual notice of the instant action against her. 
 
            Defendant states in her sworn
declaration that since Plaintiff initiated the lawsuit, she has never been
served with the summons and complaint. (Averiel C. Blair Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant
declares that she is a professional hairstylist and that her employment
requires her to travel constantly for work. (Id. ¶
4.) As a result, Defendant is seldom physically at her address at 5251 Vineland
Avenue, Apartment 415, North Hollywood, California, 91601 (“address”). (Id. ¶¶ 3,4.) Defendant additionally
states that, at times, she allows her 19-year-old nephew to stay at her
address. However, Defendant swears that her nephew never gave her the summons
and complaint or any other legal document relating to the instant case. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
Defendant further avers that to date;
she has not been apprised of the lawsuit against her due to the lack of service
of process and that she did not receive the summons and complaint through the
mail. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) Defendant
finally states that when her counsel showed her a copy of the purported proof
of service on January 11, 2024, Defendant noted that the description of the
person served with process of summons does not match the description of her
nephew, who is a Black male, five feet, eight inches (5'8") and weighed
approximately 140 pounds. (Id. ¶¶
9-10; Exh. 1.) 
 
Here, the Court notes that Plaintiffs have
not filed proof with the Court that Defendant was properly served with the
summons and complaint.       
 
Further, the Court notes that the Defendant requests to
dismiss the action for failure to prosecute under CCP §§ 583.410 and 1167.1.
The Court points out that CCP § 1167.1 does not apply in this case as the
section applies to proceedings for obtaining possession of real property. The
instant action arises from a motor vehicle accident and would not be covered by
CCP 1167.1. However, CCP § 583.410 provides that the Court “may in its
discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this article
… on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to the court appropriate under
the circumstances of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc § 583.410(a).) Here, given the allegations
of improper service of instant motion, coupled by the late opposition and reply
briefs, which are notably scant in addressing the merits of the motion, the Court
finds it prudent to continue the hearing on the motion to allow the parties
sufficient time to fully brief the instant motion. Noting that there has been
no evidence of an explicit agreement between the parties to accept service via
email, the Court orders Defendant to provide service via certified mail and
have the motion properly filed with the correct mailing address. Parties are
ordered to file timely opposition and reply. 
 
            Accordingly,
the hearing on the motion is CONTINUED TO _______ at _______ a.m.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Special Appearing Defendant Averiel C. Blair’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons and Request for Dismissal is CONTINUED TO
_______ at _______ a.m. at the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. At least 16 court days
before the next scheduled hearing, Defendant must properly serve the instant
motion on Plaintiffs’ counsel using the correct mailing address. Plaintiffs must
file and serve supplemental papers addressing the merits in opposition to
Defendant’s Motion. Defendant may file a reply.  Failure to do so will result in the Petition
being placed off calendar or denied.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  