  Case Number:  23PSCV03019    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  H Plaintiff Shipflex Logistics LLC’s Application  for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. Background  Plaintiff  Shipflex  Logistics LLC (“Plaintiff”)  alleges as follows:  On or about May 1, 2022, Plaintiff  and Defendant Pilot Inc. dba Pilot Automotive Inc. (“Defendant”) entered into  an Operating Services Agreement relating to a lease at a warehouse located at  13000 Temple Ave., City of Industry, CA 91746, whereby Plaintiff would provide  transportation management and inventory management-related services in exchange  for Defendant’s payment. Defendant has failed to pay $255,952.20. On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff  filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-20  for breach of contract and common counts. On November 21, 2023,  Defendant’s default was entered. On March 4, 2024, the Court (the Honorable  Peter A. Hernandez) denied without prejudice Plaintiff’s application for  default judgment and set a further status conference for September 4, 2024. On  May 31, 2024, Plaintiff submitted additional documents in support of its  Application for Default Judgment.  Discussion  Plaintiff’s  Application for Default Judgment is denied without prejudice.  In  reviewing an application for default judgment, because there is no opposing  party, the Court has a duty “to act as gatekeeper” and “ensur[e] that only the  appropriate claims get through.” (Grappo v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th  996, 1000.)  Here, Plaintiff  appears to seek damages based on a theory that is not properly alleged in the  complaint. Specifically, the complaint alleges damages stemming from  Defendant’s failure to pay the balance it owes pursuant to an Operating Services  Agreement (the “Agreement”), whereby Plaintiff “would provide  transportation management and inventory management related services” in  exchange for payment from Defendant. While the complaint alleges in conclusory  fashion that the agreement “relate[s] to a lease at a warehouse,” the gravamen  of the complaint is that Plaintiff is owed payment for “services” pursuant to  the Agreement and not based on the theory advanced in support of default  judgment, namely, that Plaintiff is owed rental payments based on its having to  vacate the warehouse due to Defendant’s failure to pay rent.  Accordingly,  to the extent that Plaintiff seeks a default judgment for the return of rental  payments stemming from Defendant’s failure to pay rent to a third party (and  not based on Defendant’s failure to provide payment in exchange for services), that  application must be denied, as the complaint fails to “support[] the specific  judgment [Plaintiff] seeks.” (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201  Cal.App.4th 267, 271.) To the extent that Plaintiff wishes to proceed on the theory  that it is entitled to the return of rental payments or other damages resulting  from it being vacated from the warehouse, Plaintiff would need to amend the  complaint and serve that amended complaint on Defendant. (Id. at 271-72.)[FN*] At the  hearing on September 4, 2024, Plaintiff will have the opportunity to explain  how the damages being sought in connection with its application for default  judgment comport with the damages alleged in the complaint.                