


[1] ASM Global was dismissed on August
31, 2022.


[2] To establish a claim of dangerous condition on public
property, a plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant owned or controlled
the property; (2) that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of
the injury; (3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable
risk of the kind of injury that occurred; (4) that defendant had notice of the
dangerous condition for a long enough time to have protected against it; (5)
that plaintiff was harmed; and (6) that the dangerous condition was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (Gov. Code, § 835; CACI No.
1100.)¿   
 


[3] Plaintiff also argues the City’s contract-based
arguments should be disregarded because the City did not plead contractual
defenses in their Answer.  However, prior
to the hearing for this motion, the Court granted the City’s motion to file its
First Amended Answer which sets forth the contractual defenses discussed
herein.


[4]  Certain elements of the cause of action are
not in dispute.  At times, the City points
to ASM Global as managing the driveway. (See Declaration of Willie Owens, ¶
13.) However, for purposes of this motion, the City does not contest its
ownership and/or control of the driveway where the incident occurred.  Nor does the City contest that the jagged lip
of the asphalt patch was a dangerous condition. 



[5] Vehicle Code section 21229,
subdivision (a), provides requires motorized scooters to be operated within the
bicycle lane.  Vehicle Code section 21235,
subdivision (g) prohibits operation of motorized scooters upon a sidewalk,
except as may be necessary to enter or leave adjacent property.  Long Beach Municipal Code section 10.38.020 further
prohibits operation of a power driven scooter upon any sidewalk area in the
City of Long Beach, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.  


[6] There is no dispute that the Lime
scooter is a motorized scooter within the meaning of Vehicle Code sections
21229 and 21235, and Long Beach Municipal Code section 10.38.020.


[7] Filed in support of the City’s
Reply.


[8] The Lime User Agreement was
presented as a ‘clickwrap’ agreement.  A
‘clickwrap’ agreement is one in which an internet user accepts a website's
terms of use by clicking an ‘I agree’ or ‘I accept’ button, with a link to the
agreement readily available.  (Sellers
v. JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal. App. 5th 444, 463.)  Courts generally find clickwrap agreements to
be enforceable.  (Id.)
 

