  Case Number:  20STCV40236    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee
S. Arian¿¿¿¿¿ 
Department
27¿¿¿¿¿ 
Tentative
Ruling¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           3/25/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name.:      20STCV40236 PATRICIA ANN VENTI vs THE DECURION
CORPORATION
Motion:                     MOTION TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION 
Moving Party:           Defendants¿ 
Responding Party:    Plaintiff¿¿¿ 
Notice:                      Sufficient¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL
INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION IS GRANTED.

DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.
 
 
Background¿ 
¿ 
On October 20,
2020, Plaintiff filed her Complaint alleging injuries from a trip and fall
accident at Pacific Theatres Northridge. Plaintiff claims injuries to her left
ankle, foot, and knee due to the accident. Subsequently, she underwent two
surgeries on her left ankle. On October 31, 2023, Defendants' counsel served a
Notice of Medical Examination on Plaintiff. The IME was scheduled for December
6, 2023. Plaintiff stopped communicating with Defendant, prompting Defendants
to cancel the IME shortly before its scheduled date to avoid a no-show fee.
Defendants now seek an order compelling Plaintiff‘s IME.
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or
procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is
conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
“If a defendant who has demanded a physical
examination under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff's response to that
demand, deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to
the physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order
compelling compliance with the demand. This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., § 2032.250,
subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a
physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown. . . . (d) An order granting a physical or mental examination shall
specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the
time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination.” (Id., § 2032.430, subds. (a), (d).)¿¿Generally, to find “good cause,”
the court requires a showing of both: (1) relevancy to the subject matter of
the litigation; and (2) specific facts justifying the discovery, e.g.,
allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for
obtaining the information elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal. 3d 833, 840.)¿ 
 
Analysis 
 
In October 2023, the Parties were in the process of scheduling a
medical examination (IME) for Plaintiff. Before finalizing a date, Plaintiff
ceased communication with Defendants. Defendants sent various emails to
Plaintiff regarding the IME but received no responses. On October 31, 2023,
Defendants served a Notice of Medical Examination on Plaintiff for an IME on
December 6, 2023. Plaintiff did not respond or object to the IME notice. On
November 28, 2023, Defendants sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff,
requesting confirmation of Plaintiff's attendance at the IME scheduled for
December 6, 2023, and set a deadline to respond by November 29, 2023. Plaintiff
did not respond by the deadline. Consequently, Defendants cancelled the
examination to avoid no-show fees. Defendants made numerous good faith attempts
to contact Plaintiff to schedule an IME, but Plaintiff ignored Defendants'
attempts. Therefore, Defendants have fulfilled its meet and confer obligations.
 
The Court finds good cause for Defendants'
motion, as this is Defendants' first request for an Independent Medical
Examination (IME), which they are entitled to as a matter of right. Plaintiff
has alleged injuries and has placed her physical condition, specifically of the
left ankle, foot, and knee, in controversy. Additionally, the examination will
be non-intrusive and conducted near Plaintiff's place of residence. Moreover,
Plaintiff did not file an opposition contesting the IME. Thus, Defendants’ motion
to compel IME is GRANTED, and Plaintiff is ORDERED to attend her IME within 20
days of today. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s failure to respond and attend her IME compelled
Defendants to file the present motion and incur attorney's fees. Defendants
request attorney's fees in the amount of $2,450. Considering the simplicity of
the issue and the absence of an opposition, the Court exercises its discretion
and reduces the amount to $1,500. Consequently, the Court sanctions Plaintiff
in the amount of $1,500. Plaintiff and her counsel are ORDERED, jointly and
severally, to pay sanctions of $1,500 to Defendants within 20 days of today’s
date.



PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 