 Case Number:  23STCV25948    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           3/25/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name:       23STCV25948 JANE DOE, AN INDIVIDUAL vs SOOTHE,
INC
Motion:                     Motion to Strike Punitive Damage
Moving Party:           Defendant Jhonatan Aleman 
Responding Party:    Plaintiff¿ 
Notice:                      Sufficient¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Background
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
alleging sexual assault during a sports massage therapy session. Plaintiff sued
Defendant Jhonatan Aleman for assault, battery, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED) and requested punitive damages for each cause of
action. Defendant moved the Court to strike allegations relating to punitive
damages, arguing Plaintiff pled only conclusory allegations or the facts
alleged do not rise to the level required for a request for punitive damages.
Specifically, Defendant seeks to strike paragraphs 16, 22, and 28 of the
complaint, all three of which state: “Defendant JOHNATHAN ALEMAN’s outrageous,
malicious, oppressive, and despicable conduct as set forth above was intended
to cause injury to Plaintiff and subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust
hardship with a willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and
safety such that Defendant is subject to punitive damages as set forth in
California Civil Code § 3294.”
Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id. § 437.) 
   
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civil Code section 3294 (c)(1).) Under
the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm. Conscious disregard
for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully
fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v.John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to
circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College Hospital,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)¿  
    
A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity
to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice.¿ To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.¿ (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)¿ “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice. (G. D. Searle
& Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)  
 
Analysis and Conclusion
 
The Court examined the complaint and finds that most
allegations related to punitive damages are conclusory and lack specificity.
For instance, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant JHONATAN ALEMAN “intentionally
acted with the intent to cause harmful contact, sexually assaulted Plaintiff
JANE DOE. (Complaint ¶ 10). “Defendant JHONATAN ALEMAN’s malicious and
oppressive despicable conduct set forth above was intended to cause injury to
the Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶¶16, 22 & 28.) Defendant JHONATAN ALEMAN
sexually assaulted Plaintiff as he massaged her. (Complaint ¶12.) These
statements are legal conclusions not facts pled with specificity.
The only somewhat detailed factual allegation to
support the requested punitive damages is still not sufficiently specific. The
Complaint states that “During the massage, Defendant JHONATAN ALEMAN asked
Plaintiff if she wanted her chest area worked on and she agreed. However, as
Defendant JHONATAN ALEMAN proceeded with the massage, he began to rub her
exposed breast hard and inappropriately making her feel very uncomfortable.
Defendant JHONATAN ALEMAN commented on her nipple piercing stating that he
found them sexy.” (Complaint at ¶ 7.) The complaint lacks sufficient facts to
differentiate between a “hard” chest massage and sexual assault. The term “inappropriately”
is vague and conclusory.  Defendant’s
comment regarding the piercing does not suffice to establish malice. The
complaint lacks allegations such as whether Defendant persisted despite, for
instance, Plaintiff's requesting Defendant to stop or other specific facts regarding
the alleged sexual assault that could be sufficient to establish malice.
The Court finds a reasonable probability that
specific facts demonstrating malice can be alleged. Consequently, Defendant's
motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend.
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:        
     
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.          
   
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.          
   
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court. 
After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.         
 
 
 