 Case Number:  21STCV04367    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative
Ruling¿ 
 
Hearing Date:           3/25/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿ 
Case No./Name:       21STCV04367
Edwin Sargenti v. City of Long Beach, et al.
Motion:                     MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR ALTERNATIVELY,
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Moving Party:           Defendant City of Long Beach 
Responding Party:    Plaintiff Edwin Sargenti
Notice:                      Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling:                     THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM
THE PARTIES
 
 
 
I.          PROCEDURAL
BACKGROUND
 
            On February
3, 2021, Plaintiff, Edwin Sargenti, initiated this action against Defendants, City
of Long Beach (“City”) and ASM Global, [1] for
injuries Plaintiff sustained due to an allegedly dangerous condition on the City’s
property.  Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on March 22, 2021. 
 
            On July 19,
2023, the City filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication, on the FAC. 
Plaintiff opposed and the City replied. The hearing was originally
scheduled for October 20, 2023 with Judge Kerry Bensinger, but was continued to
March 25, 2024.
 
 
II.        BRIEF
SUMMARY OF THE FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
            On January 27,
2020, Plaintiff was riding a Lime scooter on the sidewalk when he encountered a
removable white barrier.  Plaintiff
attempted to transition from the sidewalk to the street by using the driveway at
202 E. Shoreline Drive.  Plaintiff alleges
he hit an asphalt patch over a portion of the driveway which caused him to fall
from the scooter.
 
III.       LEGAL
STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  If the
moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied.  (See Id.; see
also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)  Even if the moving party does
carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion by
presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  The defendant
“must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain
evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.) 
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
            The court
must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)
 “On a summary judgment motion, the court
must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the
court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather
than to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. 
If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. 
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
IV.       JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            The
City requests judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s FAC, (2) the City’s Answer to
the FAC, (3) Plaintiff’s Request for Dismissal of ASM Global, (4) Vehicle Code
section 21229, (5) Vehicle Code section 21235, subd. (g), and (6) Long Beach
Municipal Code section 10.38.020. 
 
            The
unopposed requests are granted.  (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (b), (d).)
 
V.        EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff
submits six (6) objections to the declarations of Tania Ochoa and Anthony
Maldonado.  The first objection is aimed
at a portion of the Ochoa Declaration and the remaining five objections are aimed
at portions of the Maldonado Declaration. 
The objections are overruled. 
 
            The City
submits one (1) objection to Plaintiff’s evidence.  The City objects to Exhibit E to the
Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Daniel K. Kramer.  Exhibit E is a screenshot of a Google Maps
image purportedly depicting the subject driveway in March
of 2015.  The objection is based upon
lack of foundation, lack of authentication, assumption of facts not in
evidence, speculation, and the best evidence rule. The objection is
overruled as trial counsel can cure the foundational defects at trial. (See Sweetwater Union High School
Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 948-949 (noting that
inadmissible evidence may be considered in ruling on a summary judgment motion
if the defects can be cured at trial.) 
 
 
 VI.      DISCUSSION
 
A. The Incident
 
On January 27, 2020, Plaintiff was operating a motorized Lime scooter in
the City of Long Beach at or near 202 E. Shoreline Drive.  (City’s Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 4.)  While riding on the sidewalk on the west side
of Shoreline Drive, Plaintiff observed an obstacle, later identified as a
removable white barrier, and attempted to transition from the sidewalk to the
street wherein a bicycle lane was located. 
(UMF 5.)  As Plaintiff made the
move from the sidewalk to the bicycle lane, Plaintiff hit an asphalt patch
located over a portion of the driveway section of the sidewalk, causing him to
fall from the scooter and injure his left ankle.  (UMF 6.)  The incident occurred between 7:00 and 8:00
p.m.  (Plaintiff’s Additional Material
Facts (“AMF”) 1.)
 
Notice of the Condition
 
The City does not have any record,
log, or document concerning the subject asphalt patch and location of the
incident that is the subject of this lawsuit. 
(UMF 21; Declaration of Willie Owens, ¶ 5.)  The City does not perform asphalt patch work without
a work order.  (UMF 27; Owens Decl., ¶
10.)  The City Public Works Department
does not contract for services to repair these type of asphalt patches on City
sidewalks or streets.  (UMF 28; Owens
Decl., ¶ 11.)  Because the subject
asphalt match is on a driveway that provides ingress and egress to the parking
lot of the Long Beach Convention Event Center which is managed and operated by
ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC, the City would have no reason to
install the subject asphalt.  (UMF 30;
Owens Decl., ¶ 13.)

 
Lime User Agreement 
 
Lime is a company that facilitates dockless bicycle and electric scooter
(“e-scooter”) rentals around metropolitan areas via the Lime app, a web-based
application.  (UMF 9.)  Before Plaintiff was able to operate the Lime
e-scooter, Plaintiff entered into a User Agreement and Terms of Service.  (UMF 8; Declaration of Anthony Maldonado, ¶¶ 11-13,
Exs. C and D.)  On the date of the
incident, Lime was lawfully facilitating e-scooter rentals via the Lime app in
the City.  (UMF 10.)  Plaintiff registered for the Lime app on
March 24, 2019. (UMF 12; Maldonado Decl., ¶¶ 11-13, Exs. C and D.)  At that time, Plaintiff viewed the user
Agreement clickwrap screen on the Lime App and clicked the “I Agree” click
button asserting that he reviewed, understood, and agreed to the User Agreement
and was able to reserve and operate Lime e-scooters.  (UMF 16; Maldonado Decl., ¶ 15.)  Plaintiff could not have registered, unlocked,
or operated the Lime e-scooter he was riding at the time of the alleged
incident without first having previously clicked the “I agree” click button
agreeing to the User Agreement.  (UMF
17.)  The User Agreement contains an
exculpatory provision whereby the user agrees to hold harmless “Released
Persons” such as public entities for injuries arising from the misuse of a Lime
e-scooter.  (Maldonado Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. C.)  
 
B. Applicable Law 
 
Government Code section 815
provides that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such
injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person” except as provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815,
subd. (a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
925, 932.) “[D]irect tort liability of public entities must be based on a
specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating some
specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of Civil Code
section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities would
be largely eroded by the routine application of general tort principles.” (Eastburn
v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)  Here, the
applicable statutory provisions are Government Code sections 835 and 835.2. 
 
            Section 835 provides: “Except as
provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either: [¶] (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee
of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous
condition; or [¶] (b) The public entity had actual or constructive notice of
the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the
injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” (§
835.)[2]
 
            Section 835.2 follows on, providing
in pertinent part: “(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. [¶] (b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only
if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period
of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character....” (§ 835.2.)
 
C. Contentions[3] 
 
The City seeks summary judgment or
alternatively, summary adjudication, on three issues: (1) Whether the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred; (2) Whether the City had
actual or constructive notice of the condition; and (3) Whether Plaintiff
released and waived all claims against the City as a result of his breach of
the Lime User Agreement.  The Court addresses
each issue in turn.[4]
 
            1.
 Foreseeable Risk
 
To establish a claim of dangerous
condition on public property, a plaintiff must prove, in part, that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
that occurred when the property is used with reasonable care.¿ (Gov. Code, §§
830, 835; CACI Nos. 1100, 1102.)¿ “Thus, even though it is foreseeable
that persons may use public property without due care, a public entity may not
be held liable for failing to take precautions to protect such persons.”  (Schonfeldt v. State of California (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1466.)  “Reasonably
foreseeable use with due care, as an element in defining whether property is in
a dangerous condition, refers to use by the public generally, not the
contributory negligence of the particular plaintiff who comes before the court;
the particular plaintiff’s contributory negligence is a matter of defense.”  (Mathews v. City of Cerritos (1992)
Cal.App.4th 1380, 1384.)  “So long as a plaintiff-user can establish that a condition of the
property creates a substantial risk to any foreseeable user of the
public property who uses it with due care, he has successfully alleged the
existence of a dangerous condition regardless of his personal lack of due care.
 If, however, it can be shown that the
property is safe when used with due care and that a risk of harm is created
only when foreseeable users fail to exercise due care, then such property is
not “dangerous” within the meaning of section 830, subdivision (a).” (Fredette
v. City of Long Beach (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 122, 131.)
 
Here, the City makes two arguments:
(1) Plaintiff did not use the driveway with due care because he illegally[5]
operated the Lime scooter[6] by
riding on the sidewalk immediately before the incident and (2) after having
consumed alcohol.  In support, the City
offers Plaintiff’s testimony to establish Plaintiff was riding the scooter on
the sidewalk immediately before encountering the asphalt patch, (Plaintiff’s
Depo., pp. 38:14-39:10), and that he consumed alcohol before operating the Lime
scooter, (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 54:4-23).  Based on this evidence, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
counters that he did not ride the scooter illegally on the sidewalk because he
was afraid of the speed and hazardous manner the cars were traveling on the
road. (Plaintiff Depo. (Exh. A to Kramer Decl.), 39:20-24.)  Plaintiff points to CVC § 21229(a)(3) in
support of his argument.  The vehicle
code section allows a person to travel out of a bike lane “[w]hen reasonably
necessary to leave the bicycle lane to avoid debris or other hazardous
conditions.” (California Vehicle Code § 21229(a)(3).)  Next, Plaintiff argues because the incident
happened in a driveway while transitioning from the sidewalk, he was not in
violation of the various ordinances or codes, albeit he was transitioning from
the sidewalk to the street and not the other way around.  Regardless of which way he was heading, Plaintiff
argues he was allowed to be on the driveway area and that is where the accident
happened.  
 
            With
respect to the City’s argument that Plaintiff did not exercise due care because
he drank alcohol, Plaintiff counters that he consumed one beer roughly two
hours before he rode the scooter and was not intoxicated at the time he was
riding.  Plaintiff creates a triable
issue of material facts whether he was intoxicated at the time he was riding.     
 
In sum, a triable issue of material
fact exists whether the “condition of the property creates a substantial risk
to any foreseeable user of the public property who uses it with due care.”
(Fredette, supra, 187 Cal.App.3d at p. 131.)  Plaintiff claims he was operating the scooter
with due care and the injury that took place in the driveway was a foreseeable
risk based upon the dangerous condition of the driveway.  Moreover, the City has not demonstrated as a
matter of law that the property was safe when used with due care and that a
risk of harm is created only when foreseeable users fail to exercise due care.”
(Ibid.) 
 
            2.
Actual or Constructive Notice
            
A public entity is only liable if
the “[t]he public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have
taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” (Gov. Code, § 835(b).) 


            a.  Actual Notice
 
A public entity has actual notice
of a dangerous condition if it has actual knowledge of the existence of the
condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)  “To establish actual notice, ‘[t]here must be
some evidence that the employees had knowledge of the particular dangerous
condition in question’; ‘it is not enough to show that the [public entity’s]
employees had a general knowledge’ that the condition can sometimes occur.
[Citation.]”  (Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.)
 
The City submits the Declarations
of Tania Ochoa[7] and Willie
Owens to show the City did not have actual notice of the asphalt patch.  Ms. Ochoa is the attorney of record for the
City.  (Reply, Ochoa Decl., ¶ 1.) 
As part of her declaration, Ms. Ochoa submits the City’s amended
responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories Nos. 9, 10, 11, and 12, served
on May 24, 2023.  (Reply, Ochoa Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. H.)  The City’s initial responses indicated that
the City performed the asphalt patch work. 
However, the City’s amended responses clarify that the City did not
perform the asphalt patch work.  The
amended responses also explain that the City’s initial response was premised
upon a work order for 500 E. Shoreline Drive. 
500 E. Shoreline Drive is not the subject of this litigation.  
 
Mr. Owens is the Superintendent of
Street Maintenance for the Public Service Bureau, Public Works Department in
the City of Long Beach.  (Owens Decl., ¶ 1.)  Mr. Owens explains the City does not have any
record, log, or document concerning the subject asphalt patch and location of
the incident.  (Owen Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Mr. Owens further states that because the subject asphalt patch is on a
driveway that provides ingress and egress to the parking lot of the Long Beach
Convention Center, LLC, the City would have no reason to perform a subject
asphalt patch.  (Owens Decl., ¶ 13.)  As such, the City did not have actual notice
of the asphalt patc, and the burden shifts to Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff argues the City had
actual notice because it performed the asphalt patch work.  However, Plaintiff bases this argument on the
City’s initial discovery responses from September 21, 2021.  (See Declaration of Daniel K. Kramer, Ex.
C.)  Plaintiff does not acknowledge or
otherwise deal with the City’s amended responses.  As such, Plaintiff provides no evidence to
the contrary and does not contest the foregoing conclusion.
 
            b.  Constructive Notice
 
To establish constructive notice
under section 835.2, subdivision (b), a plaintiff must show the dangerous
condition “existed for such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature
that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the
condition and its dangerous character.” 
Put another way, “[a] claim for constructive notice has two threshold
elements. [Citation.] A plaintiff must establish that the dangerous condition
has existed for a sufficient period of time and that the dangerous condition
was obvious.” (Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313,
320 (Heskel).)  The defect must be
“sufficiently obvious, conspicuous, and notorious that a public entity should
be charged with knowledge of the defect.” (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 521; (Van Dorn v. San Francisco (1951) 103
Cal.App.2d 714, 719 [courts construing “obviousness” for the purpose of
evaluating whether a public entity may be liable for failing to cure a
dangerous condition have suggested the condition must be “conspicuous or
notorious.”].)
 
Although the conspicuousness of the
condition and the length of time it existed are normally questions of fact for
resolution by the jury, they may be resolved as matter of law where the
plaintiff’s evidence as to either element is legally insufficient. (Kotronakis
v. City & County of San Francisco (1961) 192 Cal.App.2d 624, 629 [jury
verdict for plaintiff reversed where there was no evidence the puddle of vomit
in which plaintiff slipped had been on the sidewalk longer than overnight]; Heskel
v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 318-319, 321 (Heskel)
[summary judgment proper where plaintiff failed to provide evidence to rebut
the City's showing the condition was not obvious].) Where the plaintiff fails
to present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, the claim is
deficient as a matter of law. (Heskel, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 317.)
 
Here, the City focuses on the
length of time of the condition.  The
City argues Plaintiff failed to demonstrate the condition existed for a
sufficient period of time to establish constructive notice.  Plaintiff presented evidence, albeit, as
noted above, evidence not properly authenticated,  demonstrating the condition existed since at
least March of 2015.  That is sufficient
to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
            3.
Waiver of Claims
 
The City argues Plaintiff cannot prevail
on his claims because he breached his Lime user agreement and waived any claims
against the City.  In determining whether
waiver bars Plaintiff’s claims, the Court must analyze three additional issues:
(a) Whether the City is a third-party beneficiary of the Lime User Agreement, (b)
Whether exculpatory contractual provisions violate the policy of the law, and (c)
whether the Lime User Agreement is unconscionable.
 
            a.  Third-Party Beneficiary
 
“A contract, made expressly for the
benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the
parties thereto rescind it.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 1559.)  “In Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC
(2019) 6 Cal.5th 817…our high court set forth three prerequisites to apply this
doctrine: (1) the third party would in fact benefit from the contract; (2) a
motivating purpose of the contracting party was to provide a benefit to the
third party; and (3) permitting a third party to bring its own breach of
contract action against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. [Citation.]” (Levy
v. Only Cremations for Pets, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 203, 211-12.)  “The motivating purpose of the contracting
parties must be to provide such a benefit to [the third party].”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLP (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 835, emphasis added.)  
 
 “ ‘Because third party
beneficiary status is a matter of contract interpretation, a person seeking to
enforce a contract as a third party beneficiary “ ‘must plead a contract which
was made expressly for his [or her] benefit and one in which it clearly appears
that he [or she] was a beneficiary.’ ” [Citation.] [¶.] “ ‘ “[E]xpressly[,]”
[as used in [Civil Code section 1559] and case law,] means “in an express
manner; in direct or unmistakable terms; explicitly; definitely; and directly.”
’ [Citations.] ‘An intent to make the obligation inure to the benefit of the
third party must have been clearly manifested by the contracting parties.’ ”
[Citation.] Although this means persons only incidentally or remotely
benefitted by the contract are not entitled to enforce it, it does not mean
both of the contracting parties must intend to benefit the third party. Rather,
it means the promisor… ‘must have understood that the promisee...had such
intent. [Citations.] No specific manifestation by the promisor of an intent to
benefit the third person is required.’ ” ’ ” (Levy, supra, 57
Cal.App.5th at p. 212.)   
 
Here, the Lime User Agreement[8]
expressly intends the City to be a third-party beneficiary.  The relevant terms of the Lime User Agreement
are as follows:
 
5.1 Release:
…“Released Persons” means, collectively ..., (ii) municipalities and public
entities (including all of their respective elected and appointed officers,
officials, employees and agents) which authorize Lime to operate any of its
Services, …In exchange for being allowed to use any of the Services, and other
equipment or related information provided by Lime, You (acting for You and for
all of Your family, heirs, agents, affiliates, representatives, successors, and
assigns) hereby fully and forever release and discharge all Released Persons
for any and all Claims that You have or may have against any Released Person.
Such releases are intended to be general and complete releases of all Claims. The
Released Persons may plead such releases as a complete and sufficient defense
to any Claim, as intended third party beneficiaries of such releases.
You expressly agree to indemnify, release and hold harmless Released Persons
from all liability for any such property loss or damage, personal injury or
loss of life, regardless of the cause, whether based upon breach of contract,
breach of warranty, active or passive negligence or any other legal theory, in
consideration for using any of the Services.  (Emphasis added.)
 
7.1. Limited
Liability: YOU HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT, EXCEPT AS MAY OTHERWISE BE
LIMITED BY LAW, LIME AND ALL OTHER RELEASED PERSONS ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE OR
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, INCLUDING THOSE THAT ARISE OUT OF OR RELATE TO ..., (C)
YOUR BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT AND/OR YOUR VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, RULE,
REGULATION, AND/OR ORDINANCE, INCLUDING RIDING ON SIDEWALKS AND/OR PARKING, (D)
ANY NEGLIGENCE, MISCONDUCT, AND/OR OTHER ACTION AND/OR INACTION BY YOU, ... (F)
ANY NEGLIGENCE, MISCONDUCT, AND/OR OTHER ACTION OR INACTION OF ANY THIRD PARTY.
 
7.4. Assumption of
Risk by You: YOU HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF ANY OF THE
SERVICES, PRODUCTS, AND/OR RELATED EQUIPMENT, IS AT YOUR SOLE AND INDIVIDUAL
RISK, AND THAT LIME AND THE RELEASED PERSONS ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY AND
ALL CONSEQUENCES, CLAIMS, DEMANDS, CAUSES OF ACTION, LOSSES, LIABILITIES,
DAMAGES, INJURIES, FEES, COSTS AND EXPENSES, PENALTIES, ATTORNEYS’ FEES,
JUDGMENTS, SUITS AND/OR DISBURSEMENTS OF ANY KIND, OR NATURE WHATSOEVER,
WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, AND WHETHER KNOWN OR UNKNOWN. YOU
EXPRESSLY AGREE AND ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU FULLY UNDERSTAND THE RISKS ASSOCIATED
WITH YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES, PRODUCTS, AND/OR RELATED EQUIPMENT, AND THAT YOU
ASSUME SUCH RISK.
 
8. INDEMNIFICATION.
8.1. Indemnification: You agree to ... hold harmless the Released Persons from
and against any and all consequences, claims, demands, causes of action,
losses, liabilities, damages, injuries, fees, costs and expenses, penalties,
attorneys’ fees, judgments, suits settlements, and/or disbursements of any
kind, or nature whatsoever, whether foreseeable or unforeseeable, and whether
known or unknown, that directly or indirectly arise from or are related to any
claim, suit, action, demand, or proceeding made or brought against any Released
Person, or on account of the investigation, defense, or settlement thereof,
arising out of or in connection with, whether occurring heretofore or
hereafter: (i) Your use or misuse of the Services, Products, and/or related
equipment, ..., (v) Your violation or alleged violation of any laws, rules,
regulations, codes, statutes, ordinances, or orders of any governmental or
quasi-governmental authorities in connection with Your use of the Services
(including the Products) or Your activities in connection with the Services;
 
(Declaration of Anthony Maldonado, Ex.
C, emphasis added.)
 
            Here, the
City is a “municipality” or “public entity” and therefore a “Released Person”
that “may plead such releases [of any and all Claims that You have or may have
against any Release Person] as a complete and sufficient defense to any Claim, as
intended third party beneficiaries of such releases.”  The Lime User Agreement is direct and unmistakable.  The motivating purpose of the foregoing
language was to make the City an intended third-party beneficiary of the
Agreement.  
 
            
            b.
Exculpatory Provisions
 
            “All
contracts which have for their object, directly or indirectly, to exempt anyone
from responsibility for his own fraud, or willful injury to the person or
property of another, or violation of law, whether willful or negligent, are
against the policy of the law.”  (Civ.
Code, 1668.)  “A written release may
exculpate a tortfeasor from future negligence or misconduct. [Citation.] To be
effective, such a release ‘must be clear, unambiguous, and explicit in
expressing the intent of the subscribing parties.’ (Ibid.) The release
need not achieve perfection.”  (Benedek v. PLC Santa Monica, LLC
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356.) 
 
            “[T]he
defendant bears the burden of raising the defense and establishing the validity
of a release as applied to the case at hand.”  (City of Santa Barbara
v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 780 n. 58 (citations omitted); see
also Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 733-34 [Defendant
bears the burden of establishing that the liability waiver is “binding and
enforceable.”].)  “Generally, all persons are legally responsible for an
injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property. (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) However,
an exculpatory contract releasing a party from liability for future ordinary negligence
is valid unless it is prohibited by statute or impairs the public interest.”  (Joshi v. Fitness Int'l, LLC (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 814, 824.)
 
            The leading
case on determining whether an exculpatory clause within a contract violates
public policy is Tunkl v. Regents of University of California (1963) 60
Cal.2d 92.  Tunkl held contractual
language exculpating a party from responsibility was invalid under Civil Code
section 1668 because it affected the public interest. (Id., at p. 101.)  In determining whether a contract contravenes
public policy, the California Supreme Court has identified six characteristics
to be considered: [1] It concerns a business of a type generally thought
suitable for public regulation.  [2] The
party seeking exculpation is engaged in performing a service of great
importance to the public, which is often a matter of practical necessity for
some members of the public.  [3] The
party holds himself out as willing to perform this service for any member of
the public who seeks it, or at least any member coming within certain established
standards.  [4] As a result of the
essential nature of the service, in the economic setting of the transaction,
the party invoking exculpation possesses a decisive advantage of bargaining
strength against any member of the public who seeks his services.  [5] In exercising a superior bargaining power
the party confronts the public with a standardized adhesion contract of
exculpation, and makes no provision whereby a purchaser may pay additional
reasonable fees and obtain protection against negligence. [6] Finally, as a
result of the transaction, the person or property of the purchaser is placed
under the control of the seller, subject to the risk of carelessness by the
seller or his agents. (Id. at pp. 98-101.)  “California courts have consistently declined
to apply Tunkl and invalidate exculpatory agreements in the recreational
sports context.”  (Platzer v. Mammoth
Mountain Ski Area (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1259 [collecting cases].) 
 
 
            
 
 
            Here, it is
undisputed Plaintiff agreed to the terms of the Lime User Agreement.  However, it is not clear whether the Lime
User Agreement contravenes public policy. 
On the one hand, the Limer User Agreement concerns public transportation.  Public transportation is a publicly regulated
activity.  The Court has no trouble
concluding public transportation is a service of great importance and practical
necessity to the public.  The Lime User
Agreement clearly constitutes a contract of adhesion, though it is unclear
whether a member of the public could pay additional reasonable fees and obtain
protection against negligence when using a Lime scooter.  At least no party presents evidence for or
against this factor.  Nor is it clear
whether the use of Lime scooters is an essential service.  Public transportation is essential in the
general sense; whether Lime scooters fulfills a similarly essential role as opposed
to a recreational one is yet another matter that has not been examined by the
parties.  The parties’ undeveloped
arguments regarding the Tunkl factors do not permit the Court to decide
whether the Lime User Agreement contravenes public policy. 
 
            The Court
will hear from the parties (and may request further briefing on this issue).
 
                        c.  Unconscionability
 
            “[U]nconscionability
has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element, the former focusing on
‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results.”¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, citations
omitted.)  These elements are evaluated on a “sliding scale”: “the more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The unconscionability defense
requires a showing of both procedural and substantive unconscionability.¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
            “A
procedural unconscionability analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into whether the
contract is one of adhesion.’”¿ (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 126 (OTO); accord, Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000)¿24 Cal.4th 83, 113.)¿ An adhesive contract is
standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the party with
superior bargaining power “on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.”¿ (Baltazar v.
Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245; see OTO, at p.
68; Armendariz, at p. 113.)¿ The pertinent question, then, is whether
circumstances of the contract’s formation created such oppression or surprise
that closer scrutiny of its overall fairness is required.¿ (See¿Baltazar,¿at
pp. 1245-1246;¿Farrar v. Direct Commerce, Inc.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th
1257, 1267-1268.)¿ “Oppression¿occurs where a contract involves lack of
negotiation and meaningful choice,¿surprise¿where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra, 55
Cal.4th at p. 247; see¿De La Torre v. CashCall, Inc.¿(2018) 5 Cal.5th
966, 983 [cleaned up].)¿¿¿ 
 
            “Substantive
unconscionability examines the fairness of a contract’s terms. . . . [The]
‘doctrine is concerned not with “a simple old-fashioned bad bargain”
[citation], but with terms that are “unreasonably favorable to the more
powerful party.’” [Citation.]¿ Unconscionable terms “‘impair the integrity of
the bargaining process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public
policy’” or attempt to impermissibly alter fundamental legal duties.”¿ (OTO,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 130; accord, Baltazar, supra, 62 Cal.4th
at pp. 1244-1245; Lange v. Monster Energy Co. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436,
448.)¿¿¿ 
            
            Plaintiff
argues, generally, that the Lime User Agreement is procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.  As the
analysis also concerns whether the Lime User Agreement contravenes the public
interest or public policy, the Court will hear from the parties.
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
            The Court
will hear from the parties regarding the Tunkl factors and
unconscionability of the Lime User Agreement.
 
 


