 Case Number:  21STCV26067    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           3/25/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name:       21STCV26067 BRITHNEY GONZALEZ vs BRENDA
JIMENEZ
Motion:                     Motion to Compel Oral Deposition, Requests for
Production of Documents and Sanctions
Moving Party:           Plaintiff

Responding Party:    Defendant Brenda Jimenez
Notice:                      Sufficient¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling:                     Motion to Compel Oral Deposition is GRANTED.
                                
Motion to Compel Requests for Production of Documents at the
Deposition is DENIED.
 
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
Background
On July 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present auto
accident case against Defendant Brenda Jimenez. Defendant disputes liability. Defendant’s
deposition was noticed on February 22, 2023, May 23, 2023, June 27, 2023, and
December 4, 2023. Each time, Defendant stated that the deponent was not
available and did not provide any alternative dates. Plaintiff now moves to
compel the oft-scheduled deposition. Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not
meet and confer before filing the present motion.
Legal Standard¿and Analysis¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
¿ 
Plaintiff seeks the deposition of Defendant, who
disputes liability. Good cause for this deposition is self-evident and is also
not contested by Defendant.
However, Defendant opposes the
motion on the basis that a declaration of good faith meet and confer is not
attached to the motion. Upon examining the moving party’s declaration, the
Court finds that Plaintiff's counsel declared that “Defendant's counsel has
refused to produce Defendant to date despite multiple requests for mutually
available dates” after Defendant failed to appear for the last noticed
deposition date of December 27, 2023. (Declaration of JONATHAN M. KASHANI ¶
13.) Given the core issue at dispute between the parties is the deponent’s
availability, there is not much to meet and confer on other than Defendant’s
availability. Moreover, Plaintiff's counsel provided additional information
regarding the meet and confer efforts in the reply brief. The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirement as to
Defendant’s oral deposition. 
 
Considering the numerous notices
issued for Defendant's deposition and the fast-approaching trial date with
liability still in dispute, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant’s deposition. The Court ORDERS Defendant to sit for her deposition
within 30 days of today.
 
However, Plaintiff did not make a
sufficient showing of good cause for the documents demanded. Neither the motion
nor the reply contains any information demonstrating good cause for the
requested documents. Defendant’s declaration also lacked any information on
meet and confer efforts relating to Defendant’s objections to the requests for
production to be produced at the deposition. Thus, Plaintiff's motion for
request for production is DENIED.
 
Sanctions is DENIED as Defendant
and her counsel acted with substantial justification.
 
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:        
     
If a
party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.          
   
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.          
   
If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.               
    
 
 
 