  Case Number:  19STCV36578    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 11, 2019, Plaintiffs Pedro Velasquez and Juliana Ajpacaja Baquiax filed
this action against Defendants Rosalyn Lynn Harris, Harmony Place, Shultz 2004
Family Trust, Jeffrey Schwartz, and Does 1-20 for general negligence and
premises liability.  On September 2,
2021, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Tudor, LLC (Doe 1). 
On
August 13, 2021, the Court sustained Defendant Jeffrey Schwartz’s demurrer with
20 days leave to amend. On January 11, 2022, the Court dismissed Defendant Jeffrey
Schwartz with prejudice from the complaint. 
On
September 22, 2021, the Court sustained Defendant Shultz 2004 Family Trust’s
demurrer without leave to amend. On November 16, 2022, the Court dismissed Defendant
Shultz 2004 Family Trust without prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
May 17, 2022, Defendant Rosalyn Lynn Harris filed an answer. 
On
November 17, 2022, Arch Insurance Company (“Intervenor”) filed an
answer-in-intervention on behalf of itself and Defendant Harmony Place, Inc.
(erroneously sued and served as Harmony Place). 
On
January 17, 2023, Intervenor filed an answer-in-intervention on behalf of
itself and Defendant Tudor, LLC. 
On
August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Pedro Velasquez and Juliana Ajpacaja Baquiax, as
individuals and as heirs to Miguel A. Velasquez, deceased, filed a first
amended complaint against Defendants Rosalynn Harris, Harmony Place, Tudor,
LLC, Antonia Cardenas, individually and dba Tony Cardenas Landscaping, and Does
3-20 for general negligence, premises liability, survivors’ action, uninsured
employer and negligence under Labor Code sections 3700 and 3706, and negligence
per se. 
On
January 25, 2024, Defendant Rosalyn Lynn Harris (“Harris”) filed an
answer.  Intervenor filed an answer-in-intervention
on behalf of Defendants Tudor, LLC (“Tudor”), and Harmony Place, Inc.
(“Harmony”). 
Also
on January 25, 2024, Harris and Intervenor (“Moving Parties”) filed a motion
for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication to be heard
on April 11, 2024.  At Moving Parties’ request, the Court continued the hearing to May 29, 2024. On May 15, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  On May
24, 2024, Moving Parties filed a reply. The Court continued the
hearing to June 17, 2024. 
Trial
is currently set for August 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Parties ask the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Granted. 
DEFENDANTS’ EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          Sustained: 1-4, 6-10, 14, 18, 22, 26, 32-35
          Overruled:  5, 11-13,
15-17, 19-21, 23-25, 27-31 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
          “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but
need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all of the
evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 843.)  
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.  [Citations.]  Premises liability ‘is grounded in the
possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the
premises’; accordingly, ‘mere possession with its attendant right to control
conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of an
affirmative duty to act.’ 
[Citation.]  But the duty arising
from possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of
care that applies in negligence cases.” 
(Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159, quoting Preston
v. Goldman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 108, 118.) 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” 
(Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663
(Williams), citing Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993)
6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) 
“The underlying principle, set forth in Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a), is that “‘[e]veryone is responsible ... for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management
of his or her property or person . . . .’” (Ibid.)  This rule “‘establishes the general duty of
each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others.’” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko); see Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214 (Brown).) 
“ ‘
“ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit generally “the otherwise
potentially infinite liability which would follow from every negligent act
....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, quoting
Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Our Supreme Court has
explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714 must
be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Courts look to what are commonly called
‘the Rowland factors’ in determining whether policy considerations favor
such an exception.” (Ibid., citing Vasilenko, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 1083.)  “These are “ ‘ “the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland [v. Christian
(1968)] 69 Cal.2d [108,] 113, 70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561 [(Rowland)].)’
” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) 
In
considering the Rowland factors, the court “determine[s] ‘not whether
they support an exception to the general duty of reasonable care on the facts
of the particular case before us, but whether carving out an entire category of
cases from that general duty rule is justified by clear considerations of
policy.’ ”  (Regents of University of
California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 629.) 
In
addition, “[c]ausation is an essential element of plaintiff’s complaint.”  (Christoff v. Union Pacific Railroad Co.
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 118, 126 (Christoff).)  “Causation may be determined as a question of
law if reasonable minds would not differ.” 
(Ibid.)  “If causation is
lacking, the complaint cannot stand.”  (Ibid.
[“the trial court’s ruling of lack of causation disposes of the entire
complaint and suffices to affirm summary judgment in favor of defendant”].) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The first amended complaint 
The
first amended complaint alleges the following: 
          Harris and Tudor owned the property at 23041 Hatteras
Street in Woodland Hills (the premises). 
Harris, Tudor, and Harmony hired Antonio Cardenas, individually and dba Tony
Cardenas Landscaping to perform landscaping services.  Harris, Harmony, and Tudor hired, instructed,
trained, managed, supervised, and/or monitored employees including Tony
Cardenas Landscaping. 
          On or about October 19, 2013, Miguel A. Velasquez
(“Decedent”) was working at the premises “providing landscape, gardening
services.”  Decedent “sustained fatal
injuries after he slipped and fell into the swimming pool” at the premises. 
          Harris, Tudor, and Harmony failed to provide a safe work
environment and failed to provide adequate training, supervision, guidelines,
and safety measures for Decedent. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
During
October 2013, Harmony operated a live-in drug and alcohol rehabilitation
facility for adults on the premises. 
Harmony retained vendors to perform regular maintenance and upkeep of
the premises. 
During
2013, Harmony typically had six to eight rehabilitation residents on the premises
at any given time, although Harmony was licensed to have up to twelve residents
on the premises. Harmony had doctors, counselors, and other staff members work
with the residents. A chef cooked meals for the residents. Harmony’s staff worked
in shifts.  No staff members resided on
the premises during 2013. 
The
premises included a swimming pool and spa inside a gated backyard. During 2013,
including October 2013, the swimming pool was typically kept full of water for
use by the rehabilitation facility’s live-in residents.  Photographs of the pool area depicting the
area as it appeared during October 2013 show the decking area was composed of
concrete and masonry. 
Tudor
had and maintained continuous exclusive title to, and continuous exclusive
ownership of, the premises from July 10, 2008 to June 2, 2015. 
During
October 2013, Harmony used the services of Tony Cardenas dba Tony Cardenas
Landscaping (“Cardenas”).  Cardenas and
its employees mowed lawns and blew leaves. They were not members of Harmony’s
staff.   Cardenas did not have a landscaping license
and did not have workers’ compensation insurance for its workers. 
Harmony’s
staff let Cardenas, its employees, and other visitors into the gated premises
using a buzzer system. Harmony did not obtain worker’s compensation insurance
for, or provide worker’s compensation benefits to, Cardenas or its employees. 
Cardenas
provided the tools and equipment its employees used on the premises. 
Plaintiffs
contend that, on October 19, 2013, Decedent, Cardenas’s employee, was fatally
injured in the swimming pool on the premises.  Decedent was 20 years old and did not know how
to swim. 
Before
October 19, 2013, Harmony had never received any reports of problems or
injuries involving the swimming pool or spa. 
C.   The motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication 
1.    The Court grants summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ claims
against Harris for negligence and premises liability 
a.    Ownership, possession, and control of the premises 
“A
defendant's control over property is sufficient to create a duty to protect
owed to persons using the property.” (Colonial Van & Storage, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 487, 497 (Colonial Van &
Storage), citing Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1162, 1166;
Soto v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 168, 177 (Soto)
[“whoever has the means to control the property can
take steps to prevent the harm”].) “Conversely, absent any control of the
property, a defendant cannot be held liable for a dangerous condition on that
property.” (Ibid., citing Cody F. v. Falletti (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1232, 1241 [“ ‘[t]he law does not impose responsibility where there
is no duty because of the absence of a right to control’ ”]; Soto, supra,
45 Cal.App.5th at p. 177.) 
Accordingly,
“ ‘[i]n premises liability cases, summary judgment may properly be granted
where a defendant unequivocally establishes its lack of ownership, possession,
or control of the property alleged to be in a dangerous or defective
condition.’ ” (Seaber v. Hotel Del Coronado (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 481,
487, quoting Gray v. America West Airlines, Inc. (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d
76, 81.) 
Moving
Parties argue that Harris did not own, possess, or control the premises and
therefore cannot be liable to Plaintiffs. 
To support this assertion, Moving Parties cite Harris's declaration and two quitclaim deeds.  In
her declaration, Harris states: 
“5. On July 10, 2008, Tudor LLC took title to the
Premises from me. A true and correct copy of the quitclaim deed pursuant to
which Tudor LLC took title to the Premises from me, recorded on July 10, 2008,
is attached to Defendants’ concurrently filed and served index of documentary
evidence as Exhibit “I” and is incorporated herein by reference. 
“6. Tudor LLC maintained continuous exclusive title
to, and continuous exclusive ownership of, the Premises from July 10, 2008 to
June 2, 2015. I did not have any ownership, control, or possession of the
Premises at any time during the period from July 10, 2008 to June 2, 2015.” 
(Exh. E, ¶¶ 5-6.) 
          Exhibit I is a quitclaim deed showing that Harris
quitclaimed the premises to Tudor in 2008. 
Exhibit J is a quitclaim deed showing that Tudor quitclaimed the
property back to Harris in 2015. 
          Based on Harris’s declaration and the quitclaim deeds,
Moving Parties have carried their initial burden on summary judgment of showing
that Harris lacked ownership, possession, or control of the premises when the
accident took place, shifting the burden to Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs
argue that Tudor was merely an alter ego of Harris which Plaintiffs should be
allowed to pierce.  Plaintiffs assert
that (1) Harris and her husband formed Tudor, (2) Harris and her husband are Tudor’s
only members, (3) Tudor took title of the premises from Harris, (4) Harris
later took title back from Tudor, and (5) Harris “controlled, and clearly tries
to speak, for [Tudor].” 
 “ ‘ “Ordinarily, a corporation is regarded as
a legal entity separate and distinct from its stockholders, officers and
directors. Under the alter ego doctrine, however, where a corporation is used
by an individual or individuals, or by another corporation, to perpetrate
fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable
purpose, a court may disregard the corporate entity and treat the corporation's
acts as if they were done by the persons actually controlling the
corporation....” [Citation.]’ ” (Toho-Towa Co., Ltd. v. Morgan Creek
Productions, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1106 (Toho-Towa).)  “When a court does so, it is said to have ‘pierced
the corporate veil.’ ”  (Id. at p.
1107.) “ ‘ Because society recognizes the benefits of allowing persons and
organizations to limit their business risks through incorporation, sound public
policy dictates that imposition of alter ego liability be approached with
caution.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas
Center Associates (1992) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249 (Las Palmas).) 
“Indeed,
‘the corporate form will be disregarded only in narrowly defined circumstances.’
” (Toho-Towa, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 1107, quoting Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 301.)  “One such scenario might be where an
individual incorporated her business, thereby immunizing herself from the
business's debts, but failed to treat the corporation as a separate entity and
instead continued to operate the business as a sole proprietorship. Such
liability will be found to exist where there is such a unity of interest
between a corporation and its shareholder that separateness has ceased,
yielding an inequitable result.”  (Ibid.,
citing 9 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005) Corporations, §§ 9–15, pp.
785–794.)  “Undercapitalization of the
business, commingling of corporate and personal funds, and failure to observe
the corporate formalities are examples of business practices that would leave
individual shareholders vulnerable to a finding of alter ego liability.” (Ibid.) 
Plaintiffs
have presented no evidence that Harris undercapitalized Tudor, commingled
personal and corporate funds, failed to observe corporate formalities, or took
any other actions that would make it inequitable to treat Tudor as a separate entity
from Harris.  Therefore, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue of fact concerning whether
Tudor was merely Harris’s alter ego, allowing Plaintiffs to pierce the corporate
veil.  The Court grants summary adjudication
of Plaintiffs’ claims against Harris for negligence and premises liability. 
b.   
Open and
obvious danger 
“As
a general rule, an owner or possessor of land owes no duty to warn of obvious
dangers on the property.”  (Christoff,
supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at p. 126.) “There is no duty to warn of an
obvious danger but the possessor of land does have a duty to warn an invitee
not only of conditions known by him to be dangerous but also of conditions
which might have been found dangerous by the exercise of ordinary care.  [Citation.] The invitor may assume that an
invitee will perceive that which would be obvious to him through the ordinary
use of his senses.  [Citation.]” (Beauchamp
v. Los Gatos Golf Course (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 20, 27.) 
Moving
Parties argue that the swimming pool in which Decedent fell was an open and
obvious condition which Harris, Tudor, and Harmony had no duty to remedy or
warn about (even assuming Harris owned, controlled, or possessed the premises).
Moving Parties have presented evidence that, in October
2013, the swimming pool on the premises was typically kept full of water for
use by the rehabilitation facility’s live-in residents and the decking area was
composed of concrete and masonry.  Moving
Parties have carried their initial burden on summary judgment of showing the
pool was an open and obvious danger, shifting the burden to Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs
argue the “open and obvious” nature of the danger is irrelevant because, they
contend, Decedent and his employer were Defendants’ employees.  However, even if Plaintiffs have raised a
triable issue of fact concerning whether Harmony employed Decedent
and Contreras (see below), they have not raised a triable issue of fact concerning whether
Harris was an employer.  Therefore, Plaintiffs
have not raised a triable issue of fact concerning whether the pool was an open
and obvious danger.  The Court grants
summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ claims against Harris for negligence and
premises liability. 
2.    The Court denies summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’
remaining claims against Harris 
Moving
Defendants do not present arguments showing that Plaintiffs cannot present
evidence supporting their claims against Harris for survivors’ action, uninsured employer and negligence
under Labor Code sections 3700 and 3706, and negligence per se.  The Court denies summary adjudication of
these claims. 
3.    The Court denies summary adjudication of the claims
against Harmony and Tudor because Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact
concerning whether Harmony was Decedent’s employer 
In Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (Privette), our Supreme Court
considered whether a landowner could be liable for injuries sustained when an
independent contractor's employee fell off a ladder while carrying hot tar up
to a roof during a roof installation. (See Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12
Cal.5th 29, 41, citing Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at pp.
691-692.)  The Court held that “the
doctrine of peculiar risk — which provides that landowners are vicariously
liable for injuries to third parties resulting from the negligence of
independent contractors in performing inherently dangerous work on the
landowners’ property — does not apply to injuries sustained by the contractor's
own employees.” (Ibid., citing Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th
at pp. 691-692.) 
In Alvarez
v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635 (Alvarez),
the Court of Appeal explained how the Privette doctrine affects the
parties’ respective burdens on a motion for summary judgment.  (Miller v. Roseville Lodge No. 1294
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 825, 834 (Miller).)  When a person or organization hires an
independent contractor, the hirer presumptively delegates to the contractor the
responsibility to do the work safely.  (Miller,
supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 834, quoting Sandoval v. Qualcomm
Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269.) The Alvarez court referred
to this as the “ ‘Privette presumption.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting Alvarez, supra,
13 Cal.App.5th at p. 642.)  “It held the Privette
presumption arises once the defendant establishes the requisite factual
foundation—namely, that it hired an independent contractor to perform certain
work, and the independent contractor's worker was injured in the course of that
work.” (Ibid., citing Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p.
644.)  “Once the presumption arises, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether
one of the exceptions to the Privette doctrine applies, and if it
cannot, the defendant is entitled to summary judgment.”  (Ibid., citing Alvarez, supra,
13 Cal.App.5th at p. 644.)  
Moving
Parties argue that Tudor (the landowner) and Harmony (the entity which hired
Cardenas) cannot be liable under the Privette doctrine because (1) the
accident occurred while Decedent was working in the course and scope of his employment
with Cardenas, an independent contractor, (2) Tudor and Harmony retained no
control over Decedent’s work on the premises, (3) Tudor and Harmony did not exercise
any retained control in a way that affirmatively contributed to Decedent’s
accident, and (4) the allegedly dangerous condition (the swimming pool) was not
concealed. 
These
facts invoke the Privette assumption, shifting the burden to Plaintiffs
to raise a triable issue of fact regarding whether the doctrine
applies. 
Plaintiffs
argue Privette does not apply here because Cardenas was an unlicensed
contractor, making Harmony its employer under Labor Code section 2750.5. 
Labor
Code 2750.5 provides: 
“There is a rebuttable presumption affecting the
burden of proof that a worker performing services for which a license is
required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of
the Business and Professions Code, or who is performing such services for a
person who is required to obtain such a license is an employee rather than an
independent contractor. Proof of independent contractor status includes
satisfactory proof of these factors: 
“(a) That the individual has the right to control and
discretion as to the manner of performance of the contract for services in that
the result of the work and not the means by which it is accomplished is the
primary factor bargained for. 
“(b) That the individual is customarily engaged in an
independently established business. 
“(c) That the individual’s independent contractor
status is bona fide and not a subterfuge to avoid employee status. A bona fide
independent contractor status is further evidenced by the presence of
cumulative factors such as substantial investment other than personal services
in the business, holding out to be in business for oneself, bargaining for a
contract to complete a specific project for compensation by project rather than
by time, control over the time and place the work is performed, supplying the tools
or instrumentalities used in the work other than tools and instrumentalities
normally and customarily provided by employees, hiring employees, performing
work that is not ordinarily in the course of the principal’s work, performing
work that requires a particular skill, holding a license pursuant to the
Business and Professions Code, the intent by the parties that the work
relationship is of an independent contractor status, or that the relationship
is not severable or terminable at will by the principal but gives rise to an
action for breach of contract. 
“In addition to the factors contained in subdivisions
(a), (b), and (c), any person performing any function or activity for which a
license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of
Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code shall hold a valid contractors’
license as a condition of having independent contractor status. 
“For purposes of workers’ compensation law, this
presumption is a supplement to the existing statutory definitions of employee
and independent contractor, and is not intended to lessen the coverage of
employees under Division 4 and Division 5.” 
(Lab. Code, § 2750.5.) 
          To support this argument, Plaintiff has provided a declaration
from a landscape contractor expert, Jeremy Rappaport, who opines that Cardenas was required to
obtain a contractor’s license to perform its work on the premises.  (Rappaport dec. ¶¶ 19.) 
          The Court finds that Plaintiffs have raised a triable issue
of fact concerning whether (1) Cardenas was required to have a contractor’s
license and (2) whether Cardenas was Harmony’s employee rather than an independent
contractor.  As a result, the Court
denies summary adjudication of the claims against Harmony and Tudor that require
application of the Privette doctrine. 
4.    The Court denies Moving Parties’ motion for summary adjudication
of the claims against Harmony and Tudor based on the assumption of the risk
doctrine 
“Primary
assumption of risk cases often involve recreational activity, but the doctrine
also governs claims arising from inherent occupational hazards.” (Gregory v.
Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, 1001 (Gregory), citing Nalwa v. Cedar
Fair, L.P. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1155, fn. 1.)  “The bar against recovery in that context
first developed as the ‘firefighter's rule,’ which precludes firefighters and
police officers from suing members of the public for the conduct that makes
their employment necessary.” (Ibid., citing Neighbarger v. Irwin
Industries, Inc. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 532, 538–540 (Neighbarger).  The Supreme Court has “viewed the
firefighter's rule ‘not ... as a separate concept,’ but as a variant of primary
assumption of risk, ‘an illustration of when it is appropriate to find that the
defendant owes no duty of care.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Neighbarger, 8 Cal.4th at p. 538.) “Whether a duty of care is
owed in a particular context depends on considerations of public policy, viewed
in light of the nature of the activity and the relationship of the parties to
the activity.” (Id. at p. 1002, citing Neighbarger, 8 Cal.4th at
p. 541.) 
“[T]he
duty to avoid injuring others ‘normally extends to those engaged in hazardous
work.’ ” (Gregory, supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 1002, quoting Neighbarger,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 536.)  The
Court has “never held that the doctrine of assumption of risk relieves all
persons of a duty of care to workers engaged in a hazardous occupation.” (Ibid.)
 “However, the doctrine does apply
in favor of those who hire workers to handle a dangerous situation, in both the
public and the private sectors. Such a worker, ‘as a matter of fairness, should
not be heard to complain of the negligence that is the cause of his or her
employment. [Citations.] In effect, we have said it is unfair to charge the
defendant with a duty of care to prevent injury to the plaintiff arising from
the very condition or hazard the defendant has contracted with the plaintiff to
remedy or confront.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Neighbarger, supra,
8 Cal.4th at p. 542, original emphasis.) 
The
assumption of risk doctrine does not apply here because Decedent was not hired “to
handle a dangerous situation.”  (Gregory,
supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 1002.) 
5.    The Court denies Plaintiffs’ request for a continuance 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to continue the hearing on the summary judgment motion because
Harris’s deposition is scheduled for June 18, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed this case on October 11, 2019.
 Moving Parties filed their motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication on January 25, 2024.  Plaintiffs do not explain why they have not
previously taken Harris’s deposition. 
The
Court denies the request for a continuance. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion for summary adjudication filed
by Defendant Rosalyn Lynn Harris and Intervenor
Arch Insurance Company of the claims against
Defendant Rosalyn Lynn Harris for
negligence and premises liability contained in the first amended complaint
filed by Plaintiffs Pedro Velasquez and Plaintiff Juliana Ajpacaja Baquiax. 
          In all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion. 
          Moving parties are ordered to give notice. 
          Moving parties are ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling within five days.