 Case Number:  21STCV46421    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Production of Documents 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff David L. Yen




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 20, 2021, Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen filed a complaint
against Defendants V&V Hauling, Inc., Ernesto Ramos Esparza, Maria Ramirez
Villegas, Josue J. Valerio, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a
motor vehicle accident. 
 
On
February 16, 2024, Plaintiff David L. Yen (“Plaintiff”) served a second
amended deposition notice on Defendant Maria Ramirez Villegas (“Defendant”),
requesting a deposition and request for production on February 29, 2024. (Kasparian
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant did not file any objections and appeared for the
deposition without producing said documents. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel the production of the documents requested in the deposition
notice. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
As
an initial matter, Plaintiff appears to bring this motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450. (See Motion, 5.) However, since the request for
documents was contained in a deposition notice, Defendant appeared for the
deposition, and Plaintiff only seeks to compel production (and not Defendant’s
attendance), the proper basis for the motion is through Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.480. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
 
“(a)
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.
(b)
This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”
 
“If
the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(i).) 
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.480(j).) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Aghavni Kasparian does not set forth facts that a
meet and confer took place prior to filing this motion. Therefore, the meet and
confer requirement has not been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion is timely since the deposition took
place on February
29, 2024, and Plaintiff filed this motion on March 6, 2024. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) 
 
Here, Defendant appeared for her deposition on February 29,
2024, but failed to produce any of the documents requested in the deposition
notice, arguing no one told her bring anything. (Kasparian Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant did not serve objections. (Ibid.) 
 
            The
subject deposition notice requests production of documents relating to V&V
Hauling, Inc.’s payment of Defendant’s personal expenses, debts, communications
regarding the subject incident, documents related to registration, insurance
policies, and documents that support Defendant’s affirmative defenses. The
requests appear discoverable. 
 
            Defendant argues the requests were
overly burdensome. However, it does not appear that Defendant served objections
or moved for a protective order. Therefore, the motion to compel is granted.
However, because Plaintiff failed to properly meet and confer, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to Compel Documents in the Second
Amended Deposition Notice is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide responses within 20
days. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 