 Case Number:  22STCV14564    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV14564




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Je’Don
  Hopkins



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Compendium of Evidence in Support
4.      Notice of Lodging Exhibit A 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment 
2.      Plaintiff’s Response to Separate Statement 
3.      Plaintiff’s Objections to Evidence
4.      Declaration of Gary M. Gsell
5.      Declaration of John C. Sotter
6.      Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.      Defendant’s Reply
2.      Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Gary M. Gsell
3.      Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of John C. Sotter
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
May 2, 2022, Plaintiff Je’Don
Hopkins (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against Defendants The Kroger Company
Inc., dba Ralphs Grocery Company (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10, for negligence
and premises liability.
 
            The
Complaint alleges the following. On October 25, 2021, Plaintiff was walking on
a ramp leading to the entrance of a Ralphs Grocery Store, when she slipped and
fell. “It had been raining and the ramp was slick and slippery.” (Complaint,
4.) 
 
Defendant now moves for summary
judgment arguing that (1) the condition of the ramp was open and obvious
because it had been raining that day; (2) the condition was trivial; and (3)
Plaintiff possesses no evidence that Defendant had notice of the dangerous
condition. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on
Plaintiff’s objections as they have no effect on the ruling herein.     
 
The Court overrules the objections
by Defendant to the Declaration of Gary M. Gsell. The Court overrules the
objections by Defendant to the Declaration of John C. Sotter.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “The defendant may, but need not,
present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause
of action.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 855.) Alternatively,
“[t]he defendant may […] present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admission by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing.” (Id.)¿This must be supported with evidence
“including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’” (Id.
at 854–55 [quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)].)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are
the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause
resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1158.) Therefore, to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must
prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant
was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“It is well established in California that although a store owner is not
an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner does owe them a duty to
exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably safe.” (Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205 (“Ortega”).)
Specifically, “[a] store owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable
inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers.” (Moore v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 472, 476.) “The care required
is commensurate with the risks involved.” (Ibid.) “Thus, for example, if
the owner operates a self-service grocery store, where customers are invited to
inspect, remove, and replace goods on shelves, the exercise of ordinary care
may require the owner to take greater precautions and make more frequent inspections
than would otherwise be needed.” (Ibid.)
 
A. Open and Obvious 
 
“‘“Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be
expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner
is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.” [Citation.] In
that situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to assume others
will ‘perceive the obvious’ and take action to avoid the dangerous condition.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201,
215.) This is known as “the no-duty exception for open and obvious dangerous
conditions ….” (Zuniga v. Cherry Avenue Auction, Inc. (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 980, 993.) “[T]he rationale for the exception to the general duty
of ordinary care is that the foreseeability of harm usually is absent because
third parties will perceive the obvious and take action to avoid the danger.” (Id.
at p. 994.)
 
“[T]he obviousness of a condition does not necessarily excuse the
potential duty of a landowner, not simply to warn of the condition but to
rectify it.”¿ (Martinez v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc.¿(2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184 (hereafter Martinez).)¿ The obviousness of a
danger “may obviate the duty to¿warn¿of its existence,” but “if it
is¿foreseeable¿that the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is
obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to encounter it), there may be a
duty to¿remedy¿the danger, and the breach of that duty may in turn form the
basis for liability . . . .”¿ (Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix¿(1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 104, 122 (hereafter Osborn).)
 
Although “the existence of a duty of care is a matter of law,” “[t]he
foreseeability of a particular plaintiff’s injury is a question of fact.” (Alpert
v. Villa Romano Homeowners Assn. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1330, fn. 9.) 
 
“‘It is ordinarily a question of fact … whether [a] particular danger was
obvious, [or] whether an invitee was contributorily negligent ….’ [Citations.]”
(Henderson v. McGill (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 256, 260; see also Curland
v. Los Angeles County Fair Ass’n (1953) 118 Cal.App.2d 691, 695–696 [“Whether
[a] danger was obvious to plaintiff [is] a question of fact for the jury. [Citations.]
Whether a person, under the circumstances, made a reasonable use of his
faculties is also a question for the jury. The law presumes that a person
possessing the normal faculties of sight must have seen that which was in the
range of his sight”].)
 
Here, the following is undisputed. On the day of the incident, it had
been raining on and off. When Plaintiff arrived at Ralphs, it was still
raining. 
 
Defendant sets forth the following additional facts:
 
-         
Plaintiff knew that the ramp and the surrounding
sidewalk at the entrance of Ralphs were wet that morning. (UMF 3.) 
-         
The Plaintiff testified that the rain caused her
fall, which made the pavement on the ramp and surrounding sidewalk to be wet
when she arrived at the store that morning. She attributed her fall to nothing
else but the wet pavement on the ramp. (UMF 4.) 
-         
The Plaintiff testified that besides the wet
pavement, there was nothing unusual about the ramp and surrounding sidewalk
that day. (UMF 5.) 
-         
There was no trash or debris on the ramp and
surrounding sidewalk at that time. (UMF 6.) 
-         
There was nothing blocking the Plaintiff's way
when she walking on the ramp and surrounding sidewalk that morning. (UMF 7.) 
-         
There were no puddles of water on the ramp and
surrounding sidewalk at that time. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Plaintiff testified that after her fall, she
looked around on the pavement and that she saw no streaks or smears on the ramp
at that time. (UMF 9.) 
-         
The video surveillance footage of Ralphs shows
that it was sufficiently obvious that the ramp and surrounding sidewalks were
wet. (UMF 13.) 
-         
The video surveillance footage shows that
Plaintiff did not have to use the ramp and surrounding sidewalk to enter the
store because the main entrance was a few feet away. (UMF 14.) 
 
Defendant first argues broadly that the presence of wet pavement due to
rainwater is sufficiently open and obvious. However, Plaintiff argues and has
presented evidence that the dangerous condition was not only that the ramp was
wet, but also that it was a smooth surface with grease, oil, and grime.
Defendant does not present evidence or argument that those conditions are open
and obvious.[1]
Accordingly, Defendant fails to meet its burden to show the absence of a
triable issue of material fact.
 
B. Trivial Defect
 
Next, Defendant argues the wet pavement was trivial as a matter of law.
 
“Property owners are required to maintain land in their
possession and control in a reasonably safe condition and to use due care to
eliminate dangerous conditions on their property.  But a property owner is
not liable for damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant defect on
its property.  The so-called ‘trivial defect doctrine’ recognizes that
persons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are not required to
maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.  The duty of care
imposed on a property owner, even one with actual notice, does not require the
repair of minor defects.”  (Fajardo v. Dailey (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th
221, 226 [cleaned up].)  
 
“In limited circumstances a court may determine a walkway
defect is trivial as a matter of law.  Where reasonable minds can reach
only one conclusion—that there was no substantial risk of injury—the issue is a
question of law, properly resolved by way of summary judgment.  But where
sufficient evidence has been presented so that reasonable minds may differ as
to whether the defect is dangerous, summary judgment is inappropriate.”  (Id.
at p. 226.)   
   
Here,
Plaintiff testified that rain caused her fall, and that there were no puddles
or debris when she was walking up the ramp. (Ragland Decl., Exh. C, Pl. Depo.,
16:1–23.) However, Plaintiff also sets forth her deposition testimony that the
pavement was “slick” and that the cement “didn’t have any kind of like
roughness to it to like catch your grip.” (Norman Decl., Exh. 2, Pl. Depo.,
18:15–21.) Additionally, both parties present testimony from experts that used
different tests to determine the slip resistance of the pavement. Defendant’s
expert used an “English XL VIT” and determined the sidewalk had an average slip
index of 0.53 when wet, which exceeds the value required for a non-slip floor
(0.50). (Solomon Decl. ¶ 9.) However, Plaintiff’s expert, John C. Sotter, tested
the sidewalk using a “Pendulum Dynamic Coefficient of Friction tester.” Sotter
declares that the English XL VIT test used by Defendant’s expert is not
accurate, and notes that out of the four tests conducted on the wet pavement,
two yielded values below 0.50. (Sotter Decl. ¶ 26–27.) 
 
The Court concludes that considering all evidence in the light most
favorable to Plaintiff, there exists a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the alleged defects were trivial.
 
C. Notice 
 
Lastly, Defendant argues Plaintiff has no evidence that Defendant had
notice of the defective condition. However, to meet its burden, Defendant must
also show that Plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence. Here,
Defendant only sets forth Plaintiff’s deposition testimony which by itself,
does not show that Plaintiff could not reasonably obtain evidence regarding
Defendant’s notice of the slippery nature of its sidewalk. To the extent
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s deposition testimony contradicts her later
declaration, the Court notes that Plaintiff testified during her deposition
that the cement lacked any roughness to provide grip. (Pl. Depo. 18:15–21.) Therefore,
Defendant has not met its burden regarding notice.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs’ motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 


