 Case Number:  22STCV25607    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25607




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Bonnie Furgurson, James
  Furgurson, and Katherine Furgurson




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Thomas Robert Brown and Erin Michelle Brown



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Thomas Robert Brown and Erin Michelle
Brown (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Bonnie Furgurson,
James Furgurson, Katherine Furgurson, and Does 1 to 100 in a wrongful death and
survival action based on negligence and premises liability. Plaintiffs are the
parents of Decedent Christopher Ryan Brown (“Decedent”) who is alleged to have drowned
during a pool party on Defendants’ property. 
 
Defendants Bonnie Furgurson, James Furgurson, and Katherine Furgurson
(“Defendants”) now move for judgment on the pleadings arguing that Plaintiffs
have not stated facts to constitute a cause of action. In particular,
Defendants argue this action is barred under the social host immunity set forth
in Civil Code section 1714(c). Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially
noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                           
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                         
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”
(Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, the Declaration of Mary R.
Fersch states that she met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel via telephone
to discuss this motion. (Fersch Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, the meet and confer
requirement has been met. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court takes judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs argue this motion is untimely because
it was not brought within 30 days after the date initially set for trial:
February 6, 2024. Under the Code of Civil Procedure, a motion for judgment on
the pleadings may not be made “if a pretrial conference order has been entered
pursuant to Section 575, or within 30 days of the date the action is initially
set for trial, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise permits.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 438(e) [emphasis added].) Considering that the parties have
stipulated to continue trial to June 5, 2024, the Court permits the untimely
motion. (Order and Stip., filed 10/13/23.) 
 
Social
Host Immunity
 
In
1978, the Legislature changed the nature of tort liability for those who
provide alcoholic beverages in a social setting by granting the furnishers of
alcoholic beverages “sweeping civil immunity” and imposing “sole and exclusive
liability upon the consumer of alcoholic beverages” for any injury resulting
from the consumer's intoxication.  (Allen v. Liberman (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 46, 53–54.)  It did so by adding subdivision (c) to section
1714, which provides: “Except as provided in subdivision (d), no social host who furnishes
alcoholic beverages to any person may be held legally accountable for damages
suffered by that person, or for injury to the person or property of, or death
of, any third person, resulting from the consumption of those beverages.” 
(Civil Code §¿1714(c).) 
 
“[S]ocial
host immunity has been interpreted to apply to the failure to supervise
individuals who drink alcohol at social events. Thus, ‘to the extent
plaintiff's theory of liability rests on defendants' failure to supervise their
guests to whom they had furnished alcohol, defendants are shielded by immunity.
[Citation.]’ (Biles v. Richter (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 325, 331.) If the ‘failure
to supervise’ theory of liability was enough to circumvent the social host
immunity statutes, the immunity would be ‘seriously eroded’ because ‘the duty
of supervision is premised upon the need to look after those whose coordination
and judgment have been adversely affected by the consumption of alcohol. If
allowed, the duty would appear to exist in many if not most cases where alcohol
is furnished by social hosts.’ [Citations.]” (Allen, supra, 227
Cal.App.4th at 55.) 
 
In
Biles v. Richter, the Court of Appeal upheld the sustaining of a
demurrer without leave to amend. There, the plaintiff was a social guest at the defendants’
residence. The plaintiff brought suit against the defendant hosts to
recover for injuries he sustained when another intoxicated guest started a
fire to the premises by improperly discarding a cigarette.  (Biles, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at
329.) The plaintiff alleged that the defendants “failed to supervise,
maintain or inspect their premises or the activities of their social guests
leaving them completely unattended with full knowledge that each of their
social guests had consumed alcoholic beverages in their presence and were
smoking on a couch in their living room.” (Id. at 328.) On
appeal, the Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s sustaining the defendants’
demurrer, reasoning that holding a social host liable for failure to supervise
those to whom he had furnished alcohol would seriously erode the immunity
afforded in Code of Civil Procedure Section 1714, subdivision (c). “This is
because the duty of supervision is premised upon the need to look after those
whose coordination and judgment have been adversely affected by the consumption
of alcohol.” (Id. at 331.) Therefore, to the extent the plaintiff’s
theory of liability rested on defendants’ failure to supervise their guests to
whom they had furnished alcohol, the defendants were shielded by immunity. (Id.) 
 
Analysis
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege the negligence of Defendants contributed to
Decedent’s death because they failed to “supervise, manage, secure, maintain,
or control the swimming pool and to prevent and remedy dangerous conditions
thereat, including the lack of adequate lighting in the pool and the immediate
surrounding areas, large pool obstacles including beer pong (drinking game)
floaters and other devices inside the pool, and the condition of the water and
pool surface, which obstructed visibility and prevented people from noticing
that [Decedent] had gone underwater and/or hindered lifesaving efforts.”
(Complaint ¶ 15.) 
 
            Plaintiffs also allege that
Defendants failed to supervise the pool, provide lifeguards or provide basic
lifesaving equipment or proper fencing or gates to keep impaired guests from
access to the pool. (Id.) 
            
Plaintiffs allege that when Decedent fell into the pool, they “failed
to make any effort to rescue or provide any life-saving rescue aid, including
CPR, and instead allowed and charged impaired party guests to attempt rescue
aid.” (Id. ¶ 16; see also id. ¶ 37.) This “increased the
likelihood of harm, injury, and potential death.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants are alleged to have “allowed for a chaotic environment
where alcohol was provided and continuously provided from late morning and into
the evening.” (Id. ¶ 32.) Defendants also “allowed and actively
encouraged the impaired pool party guests to use the poorly lit swimming pool
and unlit surrounding area from late morning until the evening hours without
any supervision.” (Id. ¶ 33.) 
 
Defendants argue that the social host immunity applies in this
scenario and primarily rely upon Biles v. Richter. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
defects around the pool give rise to an independent duty unrelated to the
consumption of alcohol. In particular, they argue the pool was not adequately lit
during the night, contained too many obstructions preventing people from
noticing that Decedent was underwater, and was unsupervised. Additionally,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants were negligent in how they reacted once
Decedent was discovered in the pool. 
 
The instant case is distinguishable from Biles in that there,
no condition of the defendants’ property was alleged to have contributed to the
plaintiff’s injury. The injury stemmed from the actions of other social guests
who may have been intoxicated. However, to the extent Plaintiffs’ allegations
state that Defendants should have supervised the party guests including
Decedent by designating a lifeguard at the pool, the immunity applies under Biles.

 
 
To the extent Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were negligent in
failing to aid Decedent, generally, “a person has no duty to come to the aid of
another unless there is some special relationship between them which gives rise
to a duty to act.” (Allen v. Liberman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 46, 57.) Plaintiffs
do not allege a special relationship in the complaint or opposition. Therefore,
the complaint fails to state a legal basis for imposing a duty on Defendants to
aid Decedent. 
 
Turning to the alleged defects surrounding the condition of the pool
(inadequate lighting, and visual obstructions), Defendants do not provide authority
which applies the immunity where a condition of property contributes to the
injury. Here, the dimly lit pool and obstructions are alleged to have prevented
people from viewing Decedents under water. (Complaint ¶ 15.) However, based on
the current allegations in the complaint and the attached death certificate,
Decedent’s death was predicated by ingesting “excess ethanol.”[1] Plaintiffs’
opposition does not appear to dispute that Decedent’s death was caused by a
drowning, preceded by alcohol intoxication. Plaintiffs also do not discuss
cases applying or distinguishing section 1714(c). Therefore, based on the
allegations in the complaint and the attached death certificate, Decedent’s
death resulted from the consumption of alcohol. Given that section 1714(c) provides
“sweeping civil immunity,” the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted.
(Allen, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 53.) 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with leave to amend. 
 
Any
amended complaint must be filed and served within 20 days. 
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


