 Case Number:  23STCV28025    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is
highly encouraged).  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV28025




MOTION


Motion for Trial Preference 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Sharifeh Kalimeh Delijani




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant OMID ADHC Corporation 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff Sharifeh
Kalimeh Delijani (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants OMID ADHC
Corporation, Sinai Adult Day Health Care, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Permanente, and Does 1 to 20 for allegedly
falling after being transported to her home from a health care facility. 
 
Plaintiff now moves for an order
granting a preferential trial date in this action, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (a) (“Section 36(a)”), and alternatively
under section 36(e), for trial within 120 days from the date of this hearing.
Defendant OMID ADHC Corporation (“Defendant”) opposes and Plaintiff
replies. 
 
A Non-Jury Trial is currently set
for May 13, 2025, thirteen (13) months and 4 days from the hearing on April 9,
2024. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party to a civil action who is
over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court
shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) [t]he party
has a substantial interest in the action as a whole[; and] (2) [t]he health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subdivision (a).) 
 
A motion made under Section 36(a) “may
be supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration ‘based upon
information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.’
[Citation.]” (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534,
citing Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5 [“[a]n affidavit in support of a motion for
preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].) The affidavit may also consist
entirely of hearsay and conclusions. (Id.)
 
If the court makes the requisite
finding of fact on a motion for preference under Code of Civil Procedure
section 36, subdivision (a), it has no discretion to deny the motion due to the
use of the word “shall” in the statute. (See Peters v. Superior Court (1989)
212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224-25; see also Rice v. Superior Court (1982) 136
Cal.App.3d 81, 89-94.) “Failure to complete discovery or other pre-trial
matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial preference for
those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision (a) of section 36.”
(Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085 (“Swaithes”).)
“The trial court has no power to balance the differing interests of opposing
litigants in applying the provision.” (Ibid.)
 
Alternatively, section 36(e) states:
“[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion
grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the
court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 36(e).) 
 
The courts have not decided on the
due process implications of Code of Civil Procedure section 36. (Peters v.
Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 227.) Although the Swaithes court
briefly acknowledged that trial preference may operate to truncate the
discovery rights of other parties, the provisions of section 36 remain
mandatory. (Swaithes, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 1086.)
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s objections
to Plaintiff’s declarations and evidence.
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendant’s evidence on the basis that consideration of the
evidence has no effect on the ruling herein.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole but has not established that Plaintiff’s
health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party’s interest in the litigation. The Plaintiff’s declaration submitted
in support of the motion indicates that Plaintiff is 90 years old. (Delijani
Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
The attorney declaration states that
Plaintiff suffers from cognitive impairment and her memory has become
progressively worse but does not explain over what period of time and to what
degree, and therefore does not establish a preference is necessary. The
declaration by Dr. Shalom states that Plaintiff’s memory “can continue to
deteriorate” but does not set forth facts that her condition will worsen. (Shalom
Decl. ¶ 8.) Without asserting that Plaintiff’s condition will worsen, Dr.
Shalom reaches the conclusion that “[a]s time passes, Ms. Delijani will
be less able to testify to the events giving rise to this litigation and will
be less able to assist her counsel in preparing for this case.” (Id.) The
Court finds this is insufficient to show that Plaintiff’s health will prejudice
her interest in litigating this case such that a preference is necessary. 
 
However, although Plaintiff has not
established that a trial preference is mandatory, it appears that Plaintiff’s
advancing age and condition may impact her ability to participate in the
litigation. Moreover, there does not appear to be prejudice to Defendant resulting
from an accelerated trial date. Accordingly, the Court will exercise its
discretion to advance the trial date to a date in late September or early
October of 2024. The parties shall meet and confer and propose a new date
mutually agreeable to their schedules. The parties shall promptly complete all
discovery and all necessary motion practice. To the extent that any motions are
necessary, all motions must be filed by July 30, 2024 and the moving party may
file an ex parte application with proper notice to advance any hearing date if
the court’s calendar cannot accommodate a hearing date earlier than August 30,
2024. This includes any motion for summary judgment.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion
for trial preference is granted in part and denied in part.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of
such. 
 
 
 