 Case Number:  22STCV27577    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30
Calendar No. 
Damavandi vs. Kohanbashiri, et.
al.,
Case No. 22STCV27577
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Plaintiff
Bijan Damavandi (Plaintiff) moves for summary adjudication against Defendant
Iraj Kohanbashiri (Defendant) as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
specific performance. The motion is granted.
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and if not to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Atlantic
Richfield).) Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor
Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
moving party must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to
negate an essential element or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc, § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Once the moving party has met that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to
that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiff
and Defendant are 50% shareholders in the company Lincoln Millennium Car Wash,
Inc. (Lincoln) (UMF 3.) Lincoln owns and operates a car wash business and real
property in Venice, California. (UMF 2.) The parties entered into a
Shareholders Agreement (the Agreement) for Lincoln effective November 16, 2006,
and executed a First Amendment to the Agreement effective February 6, 2009. (UMF
6; Comp. ¶¶ 11-12, Ex. A, Ex. B.)
The
Agreement, as amended, provides Plaintiff (and not Defendant) the right to make
an offer for all shares of the other shareholder. (UMF 13; Plaintiff’s Exbibits
(PE), Ex. F [94].) To make the offer, Plaintiff must deliver written notice of
the offer to the other shareholder, including the purchase price, and deposit
$150,000 in escrow. (UMF 15; PE, Ex. F [75].) The offeree shareholder is then
provided thirty days to notify Plaintiff of his choice of one of two options:
(1) Accept the offer for the shares at the purchase price set; or (2) Purchase
the shares of Plaintiff at a higher price, determined via an auction-style
process between the shareholders. If the offeree does not respond within thirty
days, it is deemed that the offeree has accepted the offer to purchase the
shares at the given price. (UMF 15-21; PE, Ex. F [94].) The closing for the
sale must be held no more than four months after the terms of the offer have
been determined. (PE, Ex. F [95].)
On
April 29, 2022, Plaintiff made a purchase offer under the Agreement by
depositing $150,000 in escrow and mailing a Purchase Offer Notice to Defendant.
The Offer was made at the price of $3,000,000, minus 50% of all outstanding
debt at time of closing, plus 50% of the book value of all remaining inventory
at closing. (UMF 24-25; PE, Ex. H.) Defendant received the Purchase Offer
Notice on May 2, 2022. (UMF 29.) 
On
May 24, 2022, the parties met in person in an attempt to re-negotiate the
Purchase Offer Notice. (UMF 32.) The parties memorialized the details of this
meeting in a written memorandum, termed the “Farsi Memo.” (PE, Ex. J.) In the
Farsi Memo, the parties agreed that [Plaintiff] will purchase 10% of the
carwash on 7/1/22 at the seven million dollar valuation according to the
valuation of [Plaintiff’s] attorney.” The parties also agreed that “[Plaintiff]
has the purchase and sale right and [Defendant] can purchase at [that] amount
and [Defendant] shall be allowed 4 months in time. [Defendant] cannot set the
purchase price for [Plaintiff].” (PE, Ex. K.) The Farsi Memo further provided,
“The previous contract is effective and can be implemented as before,” and
“[Defendant] and [Plaintiff] cannot renege on this contract after it is
translated into English or for another reason.” (Ibid.)
The
following day, Plaintiff texted Defendant. The English translation of this text
(originally sent in Farsi), including notes from the translator, is given as
follows:
I spoke with my attorney and he says
writing a contract takes 2 pairs*(translators' note: this could be a typo,
given the context this word could mean "weeks".) and this is neither
good for you and nor good for me So, I want you to respond to my suggestion for
purchase in the next 2 to 3 days If no tears*(translators' note: this could be
a typo, given the context another word could be "problem".) or
disagreements arise within the next 2 or 3 weeks. I give this contract to you
with all of its points  I cannot wait 2
or 3 weeks to see if we have a contract.
(PE,
Ex. L, Ex. M.)
Defendant
did not respond to Plaintiff’s Purchase Offer Notice within 30 days of receipt.
On June 3, 2022, Plaintiff sent Defendant a letter deeming the purchase offer
accepted based on Defendant’s lack of response. (PE, Ex. N.)
On
August 4, 2022, Plaintiff delivered to Defendant notice of escrow closing, with
instructions to Defendant for closing escrow. (PE, Ex. T.) Defendant has
refused to execute the escrow instructions or transfer his interest in Lincoln
to Plaintiff. (UMF 58.)
Plaintiff’s cause of action for specific
performance seeks an order directing Defendant to convey his interest in
Lincoln to Plaintiff, comply with the escrow instructions, and return any and
all property belonging to Lincoln. (Comp. ¶ 40.) “To
obtain specific performance after a breach of contract, a plaintiff must
generally show: ‘(1) the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying
contract that is both reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3)
the existence of a mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are
sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and
(5) a substantial similarity of the requested performance to that promised in
the contract. [Citations.]’ ” (Real Estate
Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.)
Defendant does not present any facts in
opposition to the motion, but argues that this motion should be continued
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (h), to allow Defendant to obtain
further discovery.
 
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be
presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit
affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as
may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (h).)
 
To be entitled to a
continuance under section 437c, subd. (h), a party should “explain why [they]
believed the facts they sought through the [discovery] actually existed [and]
why these facts were essential to oppose the summary judgment motion.” (Granadino
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 420.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) requires more than a simple recital
that ‘facts essential to justify opposition may exist.’ The affidavit or
declaration in support of the continuance request must detail the specific
facts that would show the existence of controverting evidence. [Citations.] There is good reason for this more exacting
requirement. The statute cannot be employed as a device to get an automatic
continuance by every unprepared party who simply files a declaration stating
that unspecified essential facts may exist. The party seeking the continuance
must justify the need, by detailing both the particular essential facts that
may exist and the specific reasons why they cannot then be presented.” (Lerma v. County of Orange (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 709, 715.)
 
The
declaration should show (1) facts that establish a likelihood that
controverting evidence may exist and why the information sought is essential to
opposing the summary judgment motion, (2) specific reasons why this evidence
cannot be presented at the present time, (3) an estimate of the time necessary
to obtain this evidence, and (4) the specific steps or procedures that the
party opposing the summary judgment motion intends to use to obtain this
evidence.  (Johnson v. Alameda County.
Med. Ctr. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.
In
exercising discretion under CCP Section 437c(h), a judge may properly consider
the extent to which the requesting party’s failure to secure the contemplated
evidence results from this party’s lack of diligence.  (Rodriquez v. Oto (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
1020, 1038.)  A good faith showing that
further discovery is needed to oppose summary judgment requires some
justification as to why this discovery was not completed sooner.  (Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 246, 257; Bushling v. Fremont Med. Ctr. (2004)
117 Cal.App.4th 493, 511-512.)
Defendant’s counsel states in his declaration
that Plaintiff has failed to provide proper responses to his written discovery,
served June 6, 2023. (Mashal Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.) The written discovery includes
interrogatories asking Plaintiff to identify all facts and documents supporting
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for specific performance, and all persons
with knowledge of those facts. (Mashal Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant has filed a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories,
Requests for Admissions, and Requests for Production, which is currently
scheduled for hearing on December 6, 2023. Defendant’s counsel also states that
Defendant will schedule and conduct Plaintiff’s deposition. (Mashal Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant
has not sufficiently identified the “facts
essential to justify opposition” that would be revealed through further
discovery. The Court agrees. Defense counsel’s declaration in support does not
describe any “particular
essential facts that may exist,”
or “specific facts that would show the existence of controverting evidence.” (Lerma,
120 Cal.App.4th at 715.)
 
Moreover, Defendant’s counsel’s declaration
fails to address in any way why the evidence is not available to present in
opposition to this motion.  The instant
action was filed over a year ago on August 23, 2022.  Trial is scheduled for April 8, 2024.  Plaintiff filed the instant motion on
September 19, 2023.  Apparently,
Defendant has not deposed the Plaintiff and only served written discovery on
June 6, 2023.  It appears to the Court
that Defendant has failed to conduct any meaningful discovery even as the trial
date looms.  Defendant proposes no plan
for how all of this discovery can be conducted before the discovery cut-off or
why it was not sought sooner.  Furthermore,
Defendant surely has personal knowledge of his own dealings with Plaintiff and
any documents associated with the negotiation making his counsel’s failure to detail
the specific facts that would show the existence of controverting evidence that
much more inadequate.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendant’s request to deny or continue the
instant motion pursuant to CCP Section 437c(h).
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to meet his burden to
show no triable dispute of material fact exists as to the cause of action for
specific performance. Accordingly, the motion is granted.
 