  Case Number:  22STCV15379    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  14 Guffey v RokitCase Background
 
This is a combination class and
PAGA action in which Plaintiffs allege violations of wage and hour laws.
 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Willful Misclassification,
(2) Failure to Pay Wages, (3) Failure to Provide Meal Breaks, (4) Willful
Misclassification, (5) Failure to Pay Wages, (6) Failure to Provide Meal
Breaks, (7) Failure to Provide Rest Breaks, (8) Waiting Time Penalties, (9)
Failure to Provide Sick Leave, (10) Failure to Provide Wage Statements, (11)
Failure to Maintain Accurate Records, (12) Failure to Provide Copies of Signed
Documents, (13) Failure to Reimburse, (14) Unfair Competition, (15) PAGA Violations
against Defendants Rokit Inc., Rokit Drinks LLC, Rokit Imports Inc., Rokit
Drinks Imports Inc., Rokit Drinks Resources Inc., Rokit Distillery Inc. (collectively
“Rokit”), Rokit Launch, Inc., Rokit Launch Resources, Inc. (collectively “Launch”),
Daniel Lewis (“Lewis”), Jonathan Kendrick (“Kendrick”), Dean Becker (“Becker”),
and DOES 1-10. 
 
Defendant Kendrick has not yet
been served.
 
On December 16, 2022, this court
granted a motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendants Rokit, Lewis, and Becker.
The court ordered the case stayed pending arbitration.
 
On June 8, 2023, this court vacated
the order compelling Plaintiff Jeffrey Moore (“Moore”) to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98. The court also lifted the stay on
Plaintiff Moore’s claims.
 
On October 17, 2023, this court
vacated the order compelling Plaintiff Jack Guffey (“Guffey”) to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98. The court also lifted the stay on
Plaintiff Guffey’s claims.
 
On the same date, this court
ordered Plaintiffs to fill out the Complex Civil Case Questionnaire and seek
admission to the court’s Complex Litigation Program pursuant to Local Rule
3.3(k)(6). On October 26, 2023, Plaintiffs did so. On November 1, 2023, Judge
David S. Cunningham III reviewed the Questionnaire and denied the case
admission to the Complex Litigation Program. The case remains assigned to this
department.
 
No trial date is currently set.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Plaintiffs
now move this court for an order compelling Defendants Rokit, Lewis, and Becker
to post an appellate bond in the amount of $675,881.24. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED. 
 
Discussion
 
            If a party
wishes to appeal a decision made by this court, this court is obliged not to
interfere with the proceedings on appeal. For this purpose, the legislature
enacted Code of Civil Procedure § 916, which provides, in relevant part: 
 
“[T]he perfecting of an appeal
stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from
or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement
of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.”
 
In this instance, the orders appealed from are three fee
orders made by this court when the case was returned from arbitration.
 
            There are
certain exceptions to Section 916, which are contained in Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 917.1 through 917.9. Many of those provisions contain ways
that an appellant can avoid the particular exception at issue; for example,
Section 917.1 excepts money judgments, but qualifies the exception with the
words “unless an undertaking is given.”
 
            This trial
court only has reason to apply these sections if the appellant makes a motion
for a stay, or else opposes an enforcement measure on the grounds that there is
a stay. The court does not go looking for disputes to resolve. And the same
principle of non-interference that animates Section 916 also prevents this
court from ordering an appellant to post a bond simply because they have
appealed. 
 
Only the appellate court (if
anyone) can direct Defendants to post a bond as a condition of their appeal.
This court can only direct Defendants to post a bond as a condition of a stay,
which Defendants have not asked for. In the absence of any request for a stay
from Defense, the court declines Plaintiff’s invitation to offer an advisory
opinion on whether a stay is or would be proper here. The court also declines
to offer an advisory opinion on the outcome of any enforcement attempts.
 
Conclusion
 
            This court
can only impose an appellate bond as a condition of a stay. No stay has been
requested by the interested party, therefore this court cannot require the
posting of a bond. The court expresses no opinion on the propriety of a stay or
the application of Sections 916-917.9 to this case. The court expresses no
opinion on the outcome of any effort to enforce the court’s fee orders. The
motion is DENIED.