 Case Number:  23TRCV03015    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
STEPHANIE
  GAUSS,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03015




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DAVID DE
  WISPELAERE, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             September 13, 2024    
 
Moving
Parties:          Plaintiff, Stephanie
Gauss
Responding
Party:      Defendants, David de
Wispelaere, Annie Maes, and Maes Capital
HEARING: MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.  
 
RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is
GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
On September 12, 2203, Plaintiff Stephanie
Gauss filed a complaint against Defendants David De Wispelaere (“De
Wispelaere”), Annie Maes (“Maes”), Maes Capital (“Maes Capital”), First
American Title Insurance Company (“FATIC”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and
DOES 1 through 50, inclusive. 
 
On January 17, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s application for preliminary injunction. 
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same defendants. 
 
On April 26, 2024, Maes filed a
Cross-Complaint against Ime Inyang Oduok (“Oduok”), Beach Cities Re, Inc.
(“Beach”), Stephanie Gauss (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”), and ROES 1-25, alleging
(1) Negligence; (2) Equitable Indemnity; (3) Fraudulent Nondisclosure; (4)
Negligent Nondisclosure; (5) Impress and Foreclose Equitable Lien – Count I;
(6) Impress and Foreclose Equitable Lien – Count II; and (7) Declaratory
Relief.
 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against the same defendants alleging
(1) Violations of the Truth in Lending Act; (2) Violations of Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act; (3) Usury; (4) Violations of California Business
& Professions Code § 17200, et seq; and (5) Breach of Contract. The SAC
alleges as follows:
 
Plaintiff purchased a property in Los Angeles
in September 2020 and later demolished the existing structure to build a
duplex. (Compl. ¶ 13, 15.) In March 2022, Plaintiff sought refinancing and was
referred to Defendant David by Oduok, a real estate agent. (Compl. ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff initially entered into a loan agreement for $1.5 million with David
but later discovered that the loan terms were altered without their knowledge
to increase the amount to $1.7 million and change the lender to Maes. (Compl. ¶
20, 23.)
 
Defendants David, Maes, and Maes Capital engaged
in fraudulent conduct by acting as unlicensed brokers and failing to provide
necessary loan disclosures as required under federal and state laws. (Compl. ¶
24, 25, 45.) They misled Plaintiff by using an altered loan commitment letter
and did not provide essential loan documentation or disclosures required under
the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act
(RESPA). (Compl. ¶ 47-51.) Defendants also violated California’s usury laws by
charging excessive interest rates, including a 12.75% rate and a default rate
of 21%, and by charging interest on loan funds before the documents were signed.
(Compl. ¶ 30-31, 53.) 
 
Defendants failed to provide other mandated
disclosures, such as a Good Faith Estimate, Closing Disclosure, HUD Counseling
Disclosure, and Privacy Policy Notice, and violated the Patriot Act by not
verifying Plaintiff’s identity. (Compl. ¶ 50-51.) They further engaged in
unfair and illegal business practices, violating California’s Unfair
Competition Law by charging excessive interest and failing to provide required
disclosures. (Compl. ¶ 56-60.) As a result, Defendants were unjustly enriched
at Plaintiff’s expense and may foreclose on Plaintiff’s property. (Compl. ¶
61-62.)
 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
for leave to file third amended complaint. On August 30, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition. On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
 
On September 5, 2024, the Court granted
Wispelaere defendants’ motion to bifurcate trial on punitive damages and denied
the request to stay pretrial discovery of the Wispelaere defendants’ financial
condition. The Court also granted Plaintiff’s motion for pretrial discovery of
financial condition. 
 
Trial is set for October 8, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Any judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 576.)
 
The trial court should permit a plaintiff to
amend a complaint when doing so is in furtherance of justice and in keeping
with the fundamental policy that cases should be decided on their merits. (Honig
v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 965 (Honig) [trial
court abused its discretion where amendment was warranted by new facts and no
prejudice would have resulted from granting leave to amend].) 
 
While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend where there is unwarranted delay in its presentation, it may be
an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where there is no prejudice to
the adverse party. (Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 543-545 (Thompson Pacific).) In Thompson
Pacific, the trial court properly determined it was required by legislative
policy to allow a plaintiff to amend its pleadings, even on the literal eve of
trial. Although the defendant complained that prejudice would result, the Court
of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s determination that there was no actual
prejudice where the plaintiff and the trial court offered to continue the
trial, which the defendant had previously rejected. (Thompson Pacific, supra,
155 Cal.App.4th at p. 543.) 
 
A party requesting leave to amend must submit
a motion which includes: (1) a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings; (2) a
statement of which allegations would be deleted by the amendment, and where
they are located in the previous pleading; and (3) a statement of what
allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they are located in the
proposed pleading.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion must be
accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made
earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).)  
 
As a condition of granting leave to amend, the
trial court may require a plaintiff to bring a motion that is compliant with
rule 3.1324 of the California Rules of Court (Rule 3.1324), including the
evidentiary requirements, and doing so does not constitute an abuse of
discretion.  (Hataishi v. First
American Home Buyers Protection Corp. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1469 (Hataishi).)  “Greatest liberality is to be encouraged in
the allowance of [an amendment] in order to see that justice is done.”  (McKee v. Mires (1952) 110 Cal.App.2d
517, 523 (McKee), citing 21 Cal.Jur. p. 209, § 143.)
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            The Court grants
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice in full pursuant to Evidence Code
section 452(d).
 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a) identifies several procedural components
required within Plaintiffs’ motion: 
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located; and 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
Plaintiff
submits a declaration executed by Counsel Steven N. Richman which includes
explanations of the proposed changes and a proposed TAC attached as Exhibit 1. (Richman
Decl. ¶¶ 2-7.) Exhibit 2 is a redlined version. (Id.) Plaintiff seeks to
add new causes of action for interference with prospective economic advantage
and slander of title. (Id. ¶ 2.) Counsel also explains the reason for
seeking to amend at this time. (Id. ¶ 9.) The Court finds this to
satisfy the requirements imposed by Rule 3.1324(a).
 
Substantive
Arguments
 
Plaintiff
argues that her motion for leave to amend the complaint should be granted because
the (1) the case is not at issue; (2) the new causes of action focus on
identical factual allegations to those already pleaded, and are essentially
legal in nature; (3) Gauss has been diligent in prosecuting her case; (4) Defendants
have indicated a likelihood of further demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint; and (5) Gauss plans to file the TAC in time to allow Defendants to
avoid having to respond to her SAC, which would have no effect on the current
trajectory of this case’s administration. Plaintiff also states the trial date
is still a few months away and Defendants are continuing to file demurrers. The
new causes of action Plaintiff seeks to include are based on the same facts
already pleaded in the existing complaint and are simply new legal theories.
Plaintiff has been diligent in prosecuting her case; she has filed the SAC in
accordance with the Court’s order and is seeking expedited consideration of her
motion. 
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff states that granting the motion would not prejudice Defendants
because they have indicated their intent to file further demurrers, and Plaintiff’s
filing of the TAC would allow them to avoid responding to the SAC, thus not
affecting the case’s current trajectory. Plaintiff states she is also willing
to extend the deadline for Defendants to file a responsive pleading, ensuring
they only need to file a single response, promoting judicial efficiency and
avoiding unnecessary duplication. Plaintiff contends that her new causes of
action, such as interference with prospective economic advantage and slander of
title, are based on facts already included in the prior complaints. She argues
that Defendants will not be prejudiced by the amendment since they are already
aware of these facts and have engaged in discovery related to these issues.
Additionally, Plaintiff emphasizes California’s policy of resolving matters on
their merits, asserting that allowing the amendment would enable her to present
a more complete argument on the case’s merits.
 
            In opposition, Defendants argue that
granting Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint would be prejudicial because
the trial date is approaching, and the new claims are based on facts that
Plaintiff knew well before filing the suit. They assert that amendments should
only be allowed if they are in furtherance of justice, which is not the case
here, as Plaintiff has long known the facts supporting the new claims.
Defendants emphasize that unwarranted delay in presenting an amendment can
justify denial, especially when the proposed amendment introduces new issues
that require further investigation or discovery. In this case, Plaintiff has
known the facts for over a year and has provided no valid excuse for waiting
until this late stage to seek the amendment. Defendants contend that
introducing new legal theories on the eve of trial would require additional
discovery and trial preparation, which is unfair given that Defendants have
nearly completed their discovery proceedings. They argue that Plaintiff’s late-filed
motion appears to be an attempt to stall and frustrate Defendants’ right to a
timely trial, particularly since Defendants are currently prevented from
foreclosing on the property due to a court injunction, which continues to cause
them financial harm. 
 
Additionally,
Defendants claim that the proposed new causes of action fail as a matter of
law. They argue that the claim for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage does not meet the necessary elements, as Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate the existence of a valid economic relationship or any wrongful acts
by Defendants. Furthermore, Defendants assert that the claim for slander of
title also fails because the notices of default and trustee’s sale were
accurate and truthful, reflecting an actual payment default. They argue that
Plaintiff has not alleged any pecuniary loss or damages resulting from these
notices and that the recording of such notices is protected by a qualified
privilege.
 
            In reply, Plaintiff contends that the
opposition fails to show how Defendants would be prejudiced by allowing the
amendments to the complaint. While Defendants argue that there was a delay in
amending the complaint, Plaintiff asserts that delay alone is not sufficient
grounds for denying the amendment; there must also be evidence of prejudice.
Plaintiff argues that the case is not yet at issue, the proposed TAC relies on
the same core facts as previously pleaded, and Defendants have already been
given a fourth deposition session to explore these matters further.
Additionally, Defendants have not provided any concrete examples of how the new
causes of action—intentional interference with prospective economic advantage
and slander of title—would prejudice them, and the filings demonstrate that
Defendants are already aware of the relevant facts. Plaintiff maintains that
Defendants have been developing these facts as part of their case and that the
new allegations are legal in nature rather than reliant on new factual discoveries.
The new causes of action are being sought in response to Defendants’ challenges
to the existing pleadings, and Plaintiff’s failure to include these causes
earlier was due to “inadvertent neglect.” The delay in amending the complaint
has not been substantial, as it has been less than a year since the initial
complaint was filed. Furthermore, Plaintiff emphasizes that California law
encourages liberal amendments to pleadings, particularly when the facts
underlying the new claims have already been litigated.
 
Plaintiff
argues that the new causes of action are adequately pleaded and that Defendants’
opposition fails to refute them. For the claim of intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, Plaintiff asserts that the TAC alleges
sufficient facts, including Defendants’ wrongful conduct in charging usurious
interest rates, which prevented Plaintiff from securing new financing.
Regarding the slander of title claim, Plaintiff contends that the TAC
adequately alleges that Defendants published an improper notice of default and
trustee’s sale, which falsely asserted that amounts were owed by Plaintiff and
damaged her property interest. Plaintiff argues that these actions meet the
requirements for slander of title and that the court should accept the
allegations as true, given that the claims remain in dispute. Additionally,
Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ assertion of qualified privilege, stating it
does not apply to beneficiaries under a deed of trust.
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s delay in seeking to amend the complaint is
unwarranted, as Plaintiff admits that the delay was due to “inadvertent neglect.”
(Richman Decl. ¶ 9.) However, the Court also notes that Defendants have failed
to demonstrate any actual prejudice resulting from allowing Plaintiff to file
the proposed TAC. Defendants argue that they would be prejudiced by the
amendment because it introduces new legal theories shortly before trial,
potentially requiring additional discovery and preparation. However, Plaintiff
shows that the causes of action are based on the same nucleus of facts already
known to Defendants, and Defendants have had ample opportunity to conduct
discovery on these issues. Moreover, Defendants have not provided any specific
examples of how their defense would be impaired or how they would be
disadvantaged by the proposed amendment. The Court also considers that allowing
the amendment would not disrupt the current trial schedule significantly.
Defendants have recently deposed Plaintiff, and any additional discovery that
may be necessary to address the new legal theories could be accommodated within
the existing pre-trial framework. Furthermore, any potential inconvenience to
Defendants is outweighed by the broader policy favoring the resolution of cases
on their merits. Without a showing of concrete prejudice, the Court finds no
compelling reason to deny Plaintiff the opportunity to present all viable
claims.
 
Thus,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend and file the TAC.