 Case Number:  24STCV04040    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer - with Motion to Strike
(CCP 430.10)
 
 Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer - with Motion to
Strike is sustained with leave to amend. 
                                                                                 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Rosalin And Jeremy Rothstein, Trustees Of the Rothstein
Family Trust U/A Dated March 30, 1992 Richard
Memsic, Rebecca Wurzburger, and Peter Wurzburger (“Plaintiffs” or
“Cross-Defendants”), filed this action against defendants Steve Rechnitz and
Shlomo Rechnitz (“Defendants” or “Cross-Complainants”), alleging violations
of Defendants’ guaranty of a synagogue’s commercial lease. 
Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs, Rothstein
Mesmic and Wurzburger (an entity of unknown corporate form), and Congregation
Bais Gavriel, alleging that the lease subject to the guaranty expired on
February 10, 2016, and that the synagogue and landlord entered a month-to-month
tenancy until they signed a new lease in 2020.
The causes of action in the Cross-Complaint are: (1) Fraud;
(2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3)
Fraudulent Inducement; and (4) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Cross-Defendants filed a Demurrer
- with Motion to Strike to the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainants filed an
opposition. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
Further, the court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a). The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading
has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Id. § 436. The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id. §
437. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not "sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment"); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 ("A demurrer should not be sustained
without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause
of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect
can be cured by amendment."). The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. 
 
ANALYSIS - DEMURRER
I. Fraud
Cross-Defendants argue that the Cross-Complainants fail to plead sufficient facts to state a cause
of action for fraud.
“The elements of fraud are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’);
(c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and
(e) resulting damage.” Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th
170, 184 (Charnay) (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks
omitted). 
“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1)
concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud
the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if
he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff
sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606. “‘[F]raud without
damage is not actionable’ because it fails to state a cause of action.” Furia
v. Helm (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 945, 956 (quoting Billings v. Farm
Development Co. (1925) 74 Cal.App. 254, 259).
A complaint alleging fraudulent concealment must allege “(1)
the content of the omitted facts, (2) the defendant’s awareness of
the materiality of those facts, (3) the inaccessibility of the facts to
the plaintiff, (4) the general point at which the omitted facts
should or could have been revealed, and (5) justifiable and actual reliance,
either through action or forbearance, based on the defendant’s omission.” Rattagan
v. Uber Technologies, Inc., 17 Cal. 5th 1, 43-44 (Rattagan). 
“Fraud must be specifically pleaded; a general pleading of
the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient. Every element of the cause of
action must be alleged in full, factually and specifically.” Tindell v.
Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249.
As alleged in the
Cross-Complaint, the Cross-Complainants executed a personal guaranty of the
synagogue’s five-year lease in February 2011 and reaffirmed that guaranty in
August 2012, when the lease was modified to include additional space on the
second floor.  Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 7,
8.  Cross-Complainants further allege
that the option to extend the lease was not exercised, and the lease expired on
February 10, 2016. Cross-Complaint ¶ 8. The synagogue continued to pay rent as
a month-to-month tenant until April 1, 2020, when the synagogue negotiated a
new $6,000 per month lease, not subject to any personal guaranty, for only the
first floor of the building. Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 9, 10.  The landlord re-rented the upstairs space to
a new tenant and accepted the synagogue’s payments of $6,000 per month for the
first-floor space for the next three years. Cross-Complaint ¶ 11. 
Here, the alleged fraud consists
of the Cross-Defendants' implied misrepresentation to Cross-Complainants that the
personal guaranty expired in 2016 when the lease term ended, and that Cross-Defendants
would accept $6,000 per month in rental payments moving forward. Opposition at
p. 4:14-18. However, for Cross-Defendants to have made a misrepresentation,
through omission or otherwise, requires falsity. Yet, Cross-Complainants argued
in their demurrer to Plaintiffs’ complaint and allege in their Cross-Complaint that
those representations were true; the guaranty expired in 2016, and the landlord
accepted the $6,000 monthly payments. Put another way, Cross-Complainants object not to any false or misleading statements made
in 2016 or 2020 but to Cross-Defendants’ allegedly wrongful demand for
additional compensation in 2023. 
Cross-Complainants argue that
this was not affirmative misrepresentation but fraudulent concealment of Cross-Defendants’
intention to demand this additional compensation during the synagogue’s
month-to-month tenancy or subsequent lease. Accepting, for the purposes of this
demurrer, that Cross-Defendants did have such intent that does not constitute
fraudulent concealment because future intent is not a fact. See San
Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies, 41 Cal. App. 4th
29, 43-44. (“It is hornbook law that an actionable misrepresentation must be
made about past or existing facts; statements regarding future events are
merely deemed opinions.”; see also Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th 1, 39
(“California law has generally not treated fraud claims differently based on
whether they allege affirmative deception or concealment.”)
Additionally, Cross-Complainants’
fraud claim fails to state a cause of action because it pleads only speculative
damages. City of Vista v. Robert Thomas Sec. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 882,
886  (“When damages are an element of a
cause of action, the cause of action does not accrue until the damages have
been sustained. ‘Mere threat of future harm, not yet realized, is not enough.’”
[quoting. United States Liability Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc.
(1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 597.]). The damages are speculative because if Cross-Complainants
prevail in their argument that the guaranty did not extend past February 2016,
they will not have to pay damages. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.  
II. Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainants
fail to plead sufficient facts to state a claim for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
To establish a claim for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, a plaintiff must show (1) that the plaintiff and
defendant entered into a contract; (2) that the plaintiff substantially
performed or was excused from performance; (3) all conditions required for
defendant’s performance occurred; (4) that defendant engaged in conduct which
prevented plaintiff from receiving the benefits under the contract; (5) that by
doing so defendant did not act fairly and in good faith; and (6) that plaintiff
was harmed by defendants conduct. CACI 325.
While Cross-Complainants
argue that the guaranty expired in 2016, they allege breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing as an alternative theory. However, as
with the fraud claim, Cross-Complainants
fail to allege damages beyond those that they may suffer if Plaintiffs prevail
on their claims. Because damages are an essential element of a claim for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, Cross-Complainants have failed to adequately plead that cause of
action. Accordingly, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
III. Fraudulent
Inducement
Defendants argue that the
cause of action for fraudulent inducement fails for the same reasons as the
fraud cause of action. The Court agrees. 
While the first cause of action concerned omissions in creating
the month-to-month tenancy and the 2020 lease, the third cause of action
concerns Cross-Defendants alleged omissions and misrepresentations regarding
the initial lease and guaranty back in 2011. Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 30, 32. However,
like the first cause of action, the alleged omission is not one of fact but
opinion and future intent. Moreover, Cross-Complainants
are not clear what false representations were made by the landlord that the
personal guaranty would only continue for five years. If the only affirmative
representations were the content of the lease and guaranty agreement, then to
the extent that the Court finds that the terms covered the full duration of the
synagogue's tenancy, no fraud occurred. Alternatively, if the Court finds that guaranty
only covered the initial five-year term, Cross-Complainants
will not have suffered damages. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend. 
 
ANALYSIS – MOTION TO STRIKE
Because the Court sustained the demurrer as to all the Cross-Complaint’s causes of actions for
damages, the motion to strike punitive damages is moot.
 
CONCLUSION
 Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is sustained. Cross-Complainants
have twenty days leave to amend.  The motion
to strike is denied as moot. 

