  Case Number:  19STCV08965    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ERIK KITTER, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KEUM NAM CHANG, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV08965
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO WITHDRAW
  ADMISSIONS
 
Date: January 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: April 8, 2024
 



AND CONSOLIDATED
ACTIONS
 
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Erik Kitter and Nicholas Hartstein (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Gregory Yu (“Defendant”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This consolidated action
consists of actions arising out of a landlord/tenant relationship.
 
 
 
On April 17, 2023, the Court granted four unopposed
discovery motions filed by Defendant, including a motion to deem Plaintiffs’
Requests for Admissions (“RFAs”) admitted due to Plaintiffs’ failure to provide
responses (the “RFA Motion”).  
 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion to withdraw admissions (the
“Motion”).  The Motion requests that the
Court permit Plaintiffs to withdraw their admissions because they served
responses during the pendency of the RFA Motion.  
 
DISCUSSION
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2033.300, a party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission on a
noticed motion if the court determines that: (1) the admission was the result
of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect; and (2) the party who obtained
the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's
action or defense on the merits.  (CCP §
2033.300, subds. (a)-(b).)  Because the
law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying
section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief.  (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)  Accordingly, the court's discretion to deny a
motion under the statute is limited to circumstances where it is clear that the
mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear
that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially prejudice the party who
obtained the admission in maintaining that party's action or defense on the
merits.  (Id. at 1420-21.)  The court may impose any just conditions on
the granting of the motion.  (CCP §
2033.300, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiffs provided Defendant with verified
responses to the RFAs on February 22, 2023 and February 23, 2023.  (Declaration of Daniel Lavi (“Lavi Decl.”)
¶¶ 3-4, Exhibits A-B.)  Plaintiffs
did not oppose the RFA Motion because they understood the discovery dispute to
be resolved but did not dispute Defendant’s entitlement to monetary
sanctions.  (Lavi Decl. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that it was
reported to the Court that Plaintiffs had provided responses.  (Id.) 
Plaintiffs learned that the entirety of the RFA Motion was granted when
their counsel began reviewing the evidence filed in support of Defendant’s
pending motion for summary judgment. 
(Lavi Decl. ¶ 7.)  Plaintiffs
did not file the instant Motion earlier due to a bankruptcy stay.  (Lavi Decl. ¶ 10.)  
 
Construing
CCP section 2033.300 in favor of the party seeking relief, the Court finds that
the Motion adequately demonstrates that Plaintiffs’ RFAs being deemed admitted
was the result of mistake or neglect.  Plaintiffs
provided their RFA responses during the pendency of the RFA Motion and believed
that the RFA Motion was therefore moot with the exception of monetary
sanctions.  Furthermore, though Defendant
claims he would be prejudiced by the withdrawal of the admissions, the Court
notes that Defendant was aware that Plaintiffs had provided RFA responses
before the April 17, 2023 hearing on the RFA Motion.  
 
The
Court GRANTS the Motion.  At the time of
the hearing, the parties may discuss the possibility of continuing the trial
date to accommodate additional time to prepare for trial in light of the
withdrawal of the RFAs.  
 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
             Dated this 30th day of January
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 