  Case Number:  20STCV33737    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Change VenueMoving Party: Plaintiff Mariana Accosta     Responding Party: Defendant Hector GalbuseraTentative Ruling: Denied.  BACKGROUND On September 03, 2020, Plaintiff Mariana Acosta (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint alleging motor vehicle action against Defendant Hector Eduardo Galbusera (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive.  Defendant filed his Answer to the Complaint on October 20, 2020.  On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Transfer. Defendant filed his opposition to the motion on June 13, 2024. Plaintiff has filed a reply. DISCUSSIONApplicable Law  Venue is determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to change venue is made. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]”  (Dow AgroSciences, LLC v. Superior Court (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1067, 1076.)¿¿ “[I]f an action or proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdiction over the subject matter thereof, other than the court designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b(a).) The burden is on the moving party to establish facts justifying the transfer.  (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921, 928.)  Absent “an affirmative showing to the contrary, the presumption is that the county in which the title of the action shows that it is brought is, prima facie, the proper county for the commencement and trial of the action.”  (Id.; Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)  Analysis  The Complaint alleges a negligence cause of action against the Defendant for a motor = vehicle accident that occurred on the ramp of SR-60 E/B to the I-710 N/B, Los Angeles, CA 90022. (Compl.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant fell asleep while driving, causing the crash with Plaintiff, and was cited for violating California Vehicle Code section 22350 - Unsafe Speed by the California Highway Patrol. (Id. p. 5.)  Plaintiff seeks to transfer the action to a trial department in Downtown Los Angeles. (Mot. p. 2) Plaintiff argues that the lawsuit has no connection to Alhambra since the subject incident occurred downtown, neither party lives in Alhambra, and all witnesses, including first responders and Plaintiff’s medical provider, live in/near or work in/near downtown Los Angeles. Plaintiff asserts that the venue is proper in the central district because the case was initially filed there and had remained there for nearly four years before being transferred to this Court.  In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to provide any statutory authority to support the motion. The Court disagrees. First, Defendant mistakes the motion for a motion for forum non-convenes. That is not the case as Plaintiff rests the motion under Code of Civil Procedure Sections  395(a), 397(c).  However, Plaintiff has not carried her burden in showing that a change in venue back to downtown is justifiable. Here, the standard is not so much about focusing on convenience but rather on the inconvenience of the venue for the action. The plaintiff’s contention that witnesses are in or around downtown is simply not enough to carry her burden under the statute.  While one courthouse may be more convenient to some witnesses, the level of inconvenience is not substantial and a transfer is not necessary to further the interests of justice.  Further, Plaintiff argues that she would be prejudiced by a trial continuance.  Because the matter is set for trial on October 14 in Department T and it is extremely unlikely that the case would be set any earlier in a downtown courthouse, denial of this motion protects Plaintiff from the perceived prejudice resulting from a trial continuance.    CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Change Venue is DENIED. 