 Case Number:  24SMCV02867    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Toulon Gardens HOA v. Redwood
Holdings, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   24SMCV02867 
MOTION:                  Motion to Strike the Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   9/17/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
  
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Robert Ames moves to strike portions
of Plaintiff Toulon Gardens Homeowners Association's complaint seeking: (1)
monetary damages; and (2) attorney’s fees. 
Defendant argues that the damages requests are premised on provisions of
the HOA bylaws. Defendant notes that he is allegedly a resident/tenant of an
owner (Redwoods Holding), and not an owner or party to the bylaws or any other
contract with Plaintiff. 
 
However, Plaintiff’s damages are not
entirely premised on provisions in the bylaws. The complaint alleges that Ames
caused a nuisance, which does not require Ames to be an owner or directly a
party to the Bylaws. Here, Plaitniff must allege a
non-trespassory interference with the private use and enjoyment of the plaintiff’s
property. (Civ. Code, §§ 3479 – 3481; San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v.
Sup. Ct. (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.)
 
“[T]he elements of an
action for private nuisance [are, f]irst, the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of its property. Second, the invasion
of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, i.e., it caused the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage.
Third, the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature,
duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and
enjoyment of the land. [¶] Substantial damage and unreasonableness are to be
judged by an objective standard.”
 
(Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176.) 
The
Complaint alleges damages caused by Defendants’ maintenance of a nuisance. Plaintiff
alleges that starting on July 12, 2023, it provided statutory notices in an
attempt to enter the subject unit, Unit 102, in order to investigate a water
leak. (Compl., ¶¶ 39-42.) Ames failed to allow access to the unit in violation
of Plaintiff’s private property rights. Ames changed the locks and refused to
provide the landlord with a copy of the key nor did he allow the landlord
access to change or replace the locks. (Compl., ¶ 43.) There has been a loss of
hot water to other units due to an issue within Unit 102. (Id.) The HOA needs
access to the Unit to make repairs and to restore hot water to the surrounding
units. (Id.) The complaint expressly alleges that by continuing to maintain the
violations at the property defendant is causing a nuisance injuring, or
threatening injury to, the Association and to the residents of the Association.
(Id. ¶¶ 54-55.) The Complaint further alleges that Ames knew that if they did
not remove the violations from the Property other owners could no longer
quietly enjoy their homes and the common area. (Id. ¶ 56.) As a result of the nuisance,
the Association has suffered property damage and economic loss of at least
$35,000. (Id. ¶ 58.)
As to punitive damages,
“[a] nuisance can be either a negligent or an intentional tort. (Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.)  “If the latter,
then exemplary damages are recoverable.” (Id.) The complaint
alleges that Ames’s above acts and omissions have been intentional, deliberate and
willful, and they were performed knowing they would create a nuisance. (Compl.,
¶ 57.) His refusal to remove the listed violations were willful and done with
conscious disregard of the Association’s rights and subjected the Association
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of its rights and the
rights of the residents of the Association. (Id ¶ 59.) Therefore, the claim for
punitive damages is sufficiently supported by the pleadings.
Accordingly, the motion
is DENIED.