 Case Number:  23STCV14999    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to
Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Gurmit Paul
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The
case is Dismissed.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On June 27,
2023, Plaintiff Meera Paul filed her Complaint against Defendants County of Los
Angeles and Gurmit Paul on a cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
On September
14, 2023, Defendant Gurmit Paul (“Defendant”) filed her Demurrer to Complaint
(“Demurrer”). 
 
On October 5,
2023, Defendant filed her Reply. 
 
No opposition
or other response was filed to the Demurrer. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to test the
legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the
function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and
for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint
are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
422.10, 589.)
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10 (grounds), section 430.30 (as to any matter on its face or from
which judicial notice may be taken), and section 430.50(a) (can be taken to the
entire complaint or any cause of action within).
 
A demurrer may be brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are stated to
support the cause of action asserted. A demurrer for uncertainty (Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)), is disfavored and will only be
sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him/her. (Khoury v.
Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the
pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Id.)
 
II.       Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the Complaint, arguing that Plaintiff has fallen short of stating a
cause of action on which she rightfully may obtain declaratory relief.
(Demurrer, pp. 7:28, 8:1–2.) 
 
Plaintiff has
not opposed the Demurrer. 
 
The Court
agrees with Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff has not sufficiently stated a
cause of action. Specifically, it is unclear on what bases Plaintiff seeks (1)
a judicial declaration that Plaintiff may authorize a doctor to perform a
private autopsy on a deceased individual at Plaintiff’s sole expense and (2) a
mandatory injunction ordering Defendant County of Los Angeles to release to
Plaintiff the specimens collected from the deceased individual. (Complaint, p.
3:16–22.)
 
Plaintiff is
represented by counsel but has not opposed this demurrer.  The Court’s tentative indicated that if Plaintiff
wished leave to amend the complaint, counsel could request that at the hearing.  However, neither Plaintiff nor her counsel
appeared at the hearing to request that leave to amend be granted. 
 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The
case is Dismissed.  
 
No appearance from P
 
 
 