 Case Number:  21STCV35896    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  34 PLAINTIFF'S
REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
 
I.         
BACKGROUND
 
On September 29, 2021, Plaintiff Timothy Burke filed his Complaint
against Defendants The Wizard of Construction, Inc., A Perfect View Builders,
Inc., and Oz Mizrahi. 
 
On December 22, 2022, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office
entered default on Defendants A Perfect View Builders, Inc. and The Wizard of
Construction, Inc.
 
On April 24, 2023, the Court dismissed with prejudice Defendant Oz
Mizrahi from the Complaint. 
 
On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed:
 
(1)      
Judicial
Council Form CIV-100, Request for Court Judgment against Defendant A Perfect
View Builders, Inc.;
(2)      
Judicial
Council Form CIV-100, Request for Court Judgment against Defendant The Wizard
of Construction, Inc.;
(3)      
Judicial
Council Form MC-010, Memorandum of Costs (Summary);
(4)      
Declarations
and Exhibits;
(5)      
Declaration
of Felipa R. Richland; and
(6)      
Proposed
Judgment.
 
 
II.      
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff has not provided the Court sufficient evidence to prove the
elements of his causes of action. Almost the entirety Plaintiff Counsel’s declaration
is inadmissible hearsay. To take just a few examples, Attorney Richland states:
 
·      
“2. On or about April 19, 2017 Mr. Norman Burke
was induced to sign loan documents on an electronic tablet containing an
econtract. 
·      
“3. As of April 19, 2017 Mr. Norman Burke was 86
years old suffering from dementia and vision impairment.
·      
“4. Norman Burke was and unable to understand
any contract terms at the time of his signature. He did not have a personal
representative or attorney present at the time of signing.
·      
“5. What he unknowingly signed was threefold,
and [sic] home improvement contract, a loan contract requiring repayment in the
amount of $76,205.00 ; [sic] and a property tax lien securing loan repayments
through the Los Angeles County Tax Assessor as part of his property tax
assessment each year.”  (Richland Declaration,
pp. 4-5.)
 
If Attorney Richland
has personal knowledge of these facts, she has not laid the foundation for the
statements in her declaration.
 
        (Although it does not affect the Court’s
analysis, much of counsel’s declaration is ungrammatical gobbledygook.  For instance, Plaintiff’s counsel states:
 
·      
“The below state facts support cancellation of
the contract on the grounds lack Norman Burke lacked capacity and mutual
consent.” (Richland Declaration, p. 4:4-5.)
·      
“During the investigative process to locate a
persons/or persons authorized to accept service in the state action proved to be
a shell game.”  (Richland Declaration, p.
6:10-11.)
 
An attorney who is “duly licensed
and permitted to practice law before all courts in California, the Central
District, 9th Circuit and U.S. Supreme Court” [Richland Declaration, p. 3:2-4] and
who has been admitted to practice law for the past 30 years [see https://apps.calbar.ca.gov/attorney/Licensee/Detail/112458]
should be able to write grammatical sentences.)
 
The only admissible evidence is contained in the Declaration of Timothy
Burke.  Burke states:  “From 2016 until he died, I was
responsible for his financial and legal affairs oversight. At no time did my
father ever mention a home improvement contract or financing.  The
home improvement contract and related loan was unknown to me and I did not
learn of it until after the property tax bill arrived. I conducted a search of
my father’s mail and papers and found no contract for either the construction
or the finance.” (Burke Declaration, ¶¶ 9–11.) 
 
This is not sufficient to find that the elder Burke was coerced into signing
the contract.  
 
Further, it is not clear that the declaration of Erika
Vasko-Mate Declaration is admissible.  The
Vasko-Mate declaration was submitted in another case, not in this case.  The original declaration has not been filed
with this Court.  Further, the Vasko-Mate
declaration attaches doctor’s notes that are themselves hearsay.  Lastly, even if the Court were to accept the
doctor’s notes, they contradict statements in the Burke and Richland declarations.  For instance, Timothy Burke states that his
father “suffered significant visual impairment” and Richland states (without
foundation) that Burke was “suffering from . . . vision impairment.”  (Burke Declaration, ¶ 3; Richland Declaration,
p. 4:24-25.)  Yet the doctor’s notes state
that the deceased had no visual impairment. 
(See notes, attached to Vasko-Mate Declaration, p. 19.)
 
The evidence presented to the Court is not sufficient for the Court to
find in favor of plaintiff on any of his causes of action for cancellation of
contract, fraud, unfair business practices, intentional misrepresentation or
elder abuse. Further, the property tax bills mentioned in the Richland Declaration
have not been provided, and no evidence of the contract has been submitted. No
bank statements or other documents have been submitted that would show any damages
based on this allegedly fraudulently-induced contract. Without evidence that
would prove there was in fact a contract or damages, the Court cannot grant Plaintiff’s
Request for Default Judgment.
 
On June 23, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s request for Entry of Default
Judgement.  The Court’s posted tentative
decision stated that “There have been at least 10 Case Management
Conferences and/or OSC’s re Entry of Default. 
Plaintiff has done little or nothing on this case since it was filed in September
2021. [¶] The Court will continue the OSC re Entry of Default Judgement until Sept.
11, 2023. If default judgment is not entered by that date, the Court WILL
dismiss the case.”  The Court orally reiterated
that admonishment to Plaintiff’s counsel at the hearing.
 
        At the June 23rd
hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that she had “10 witnesses to do a prove-up.”  However, other than counsel’s declaration, which
as stated above is mostly hearsay and lacks foundation, counsel has provided
only one admissible declaration. 
 
        Plaintiff has
the burden of proving his case.  He has
failed to do so.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for Entry of Default Judgement.  The Court DISMISSES the Complaint. 
 
 