  Case Number:  20STCV46551    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Eddie Navarrette
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Spaciot, LLC and Alessandro
Paciotti
 
 
 
The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Any amended complaint to be filed within 10 days.
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On December
4, 2020, Plaintiffs Spaciot, LLC and Alessandro Paciotti filed their Verified
Complaint against Defendants Duc Pham; Vincent Pham; Verona Street Holdings,
LLC; Barry Mason Enterprises, LP; Atlas Real Estate Group; Ali Mourad; Roger
Merians; and Daniel Hinman. 
 
On October
19, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
On November
18, 2023, Defendant Daniel Hinman filed his Answer to the FAC. 
 
On January 6,
2023, Defendants Duc Pham, Vincent Pham, and Verona Street Holdings, LLC filed
their Answer to the FAC. 
 
On January
25, 2023, by request of Plaintiffs, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without
prejudice Defendant Barry Mason Enterprises, LP from the Complaint. 
 
On June 13,
2023, Plaintiffs amended their Complaint by substituting Doe 1 with Eddie
Navarette. 
 
        On
August 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
 
        On
September 12, 2023, Defendants Atlas Real Estate Group, Ali Mourad, and Roger
Merian filed their Answer to the SAC. 
 
        On
September 13, 2023, Defendant Eddie Navarrette (“Defendant”) filed his Demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ SAC (“Demurrer”). In support of his Demurrer, Defendant
concurrently filed his Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
        On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Response to the Demurrer
(“Response”). Plaintiffs concurrently filed their Proof of Electronic Service. 
 
        On
October 5, 2023, Defendant filed his Reply regarding the Demurrer. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of Exhibit C to the FAC, which is
a contract. 
 
        The
Court DENIES judicial notice of this item. This is not something of which the
Court may take judicial notice. 
 
II.       Legal Standard
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to test the
legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the
function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and
for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint
are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
422.10, 589.)
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10 (grounds), section 430.30 (as to any matter on its face or from
which judicial notice may be taken), and section 430.50(a) (can be taken to the
entire complaint or any cause of action within).
 
A demurrer may be brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are stated to
support the cause of action asserted. A demurrer for uncertainty (Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)), is disfavored and will only be
sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him/her. (Khoury v.
Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the
pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Id.)
 
III.     Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the SAC, arguing: (1) that Plaintiffs have not made sufficiently
specific allegations against Defendant; and (2) that the third cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation fails. (Demurrer, pp. 5:22–23, 6:4–6,
6:19–21, 7:19–21, 8:8–9.)
 
A.      Lack of Specificity
 
1.      Legal Standard
 
“The party against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in
Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
 
. . .
 
“(e)¿The pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
 
“(f)¿The pleading is uncertain. As used in this subdivision,
‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subds. (e)–(f).)
 
2.      Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the SAC, arguing that Plaintiffs have not made sufficiently specific
allegations against Defendant. (Demurrer, p. 5:22–23.)
 
Plaintiff
opposes the Demurrer, arguing: (1) that the Demurrer was untimely; (2) that
Plaintiffs amended their FAC in the exact fashion that the Court ruled would
cure the defects in the prior pleading; (3) that Defendant is named as a
co-conspirator and therefore it need not be alleged or proven that he
personally committed every act comprising the intentional tort of
misrepresentation; (4) that Defendant not being a signatory to the contract
does not shield him from allegations of intentional misrepresentation; (5) that
Defendant is named as a co-conspirator and thus Plaintiffs do not need to
allege or prove that he personally committed every act comprising intentional
misrepresentation; and (6) that the allegations against Defendant regarding his
involvement in the alleged conspiracy are sufficient and well pleaded.
(Response, pp. 3:2, 3:13–14, 5:10–12, 6:19–22, 8:7–9, 8:19–20.)
 
In his Reply,
Defendant argues: (1) that he timely served his Demurrer and Plaintiffs did not
suffer prejudice from a glitch in filing; (2) that the Court allowing leave to
amend did not render Plaintiffs’ amendments immune to attack via Demurrer; (3)
that the Court should disregard Plaintiffs’ conclusory allegations of
conspiracy; (4) that the lease addendum does not contain an exculpatory clause;
and (5) that the Court should sustain the Demurrer without leave to amend.
(Reply, pp. 3:2–3, 3:11–12, 3:19–20, 5:1, 5:25–26.)
 
        It
is irrelevant whether Defendant was untimely in filing the Demurrer. Even if he
were, Defendant could have simply filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings
to the same effect. The Court agrees with the argument that Plaintiffs were not
prejudiced by an untimely filing. 
 
        Further,
the Court agrees with the argument that the SAC fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action as to Defendant. Indeed, the SAC is nearly
identical to the FAC. From what the Court can tell, the only changes are to
paragraphs 10 and 40 — and both changes do not add allegations that would clarify
why any of the causes of action involve Defendant. For example, Paragraph 10
adds an allegation that each Doe Defendant “was the agent, principal,
alter-ego, coconspirator [sic], and/or successor-in-interest of the named
Defendants . . . and are responsible in some way for the acts complained of
therein.” (SAC, ¶ 10.) But there is a complete lack of specificity as to how
the Doe Defendants are responsible, much less any new allegation that would
explain why the causes of action are sufficient as to Defendant. 
 
While it
would not alone be dispositive, it is notable that neither Defendant’s name
(Eddie Navarrette) nor the name he uses, “Fast Eddie,” appear a single time in
the SAC. Defendant is still not a named defendant in the SAC but instead remains
a Doe defendant. It is also notable that the language in the SAC continues to
state that Plaintiffs “are unaware of the true names . . . of Defendant DOES 1
to 25” — even though on June 13, 2023, Plaintiffs substituted Doe 1 with
Defendant. (SAC, ¶ 10.) 
 
        The
insufficient allegations made in the FAC remain insufficient in the SAC. At the
hearing, Plaintiff stated that paragraph 40 of the complaint was sufficient to
allege a conspiracy.  The Court
disagrees.  However, Plaintiff stated at
the hearing that he could add the required information and requested leave to
amend.
 
 
B.      Intentional Misrepresentation
 
        The
Court need not, and does not, reach specific arguments about intentional
misrepresentation. 
 
 
IV.      Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.

 