 Case Number:  23STCV15752    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Gill Roy Copeland, Jr.
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff David Phillips
 
 
The Motion is
GRANTED in part.  The punitive damages
are stricken from the contract cause of part action. The request for punitive
damages are not stricken from the remaining causes of action. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 6,
2023, Plaintiff David Phillips filed his Complaint against Defendants Gill Roy
Copeland, Jr. (erroneously sued as Gil Roy Copeland Jr.) and Dionne Survert on
causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s tenancy. 
 
On September
12, 2023, Defendant Gill Roy Copeland, Jr. (“Defendant”) filed his Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint (“Motion”). 
 
On September
29, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion. 
 
On October 5,
2023, Defendant filed his Reply regarding the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1)). The notice of motion to
strike a portion of a pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be
stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of
action, count or defense. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.
(Perlman v. Mun. Ct. (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
II.       Discussion
 
Defendant
moves the Court to strike various portions of the Complaint that involve
punitive damages. (Motion, pp. 2–4, 7:21–22, 9:12–13, 11:21–22.)
 
Plaintiff has
agreed in his opposition to strike the claims for punitive damages from his
Breach of Contract claim.  
 
        The
Court agrees that punitive damages are unavailable for Breach of Contract
claims. 
 
However, Plaintiff
is entitled to allege that Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, and/or
malice on the non-contract causes of action. It will ultimately be Plaintiff’s
burden to prove that he is entitled to the relief he seeks. 
 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion is
GRANTED in part.  The punitive damages
are stricken from the contract cause of part action. The request for punitive damages
are not stricken from the remaining other causes of action. 