  Case Number:  21STCV18571    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California¿ County of Los Angeles¿ Department 78¿ ¿ JESSE LAURICELLA,  Plaintiff(s), vs.¿ FIREFLY FABRICATIONS, LLC, et al.,  Defendant(s).¿ Case No.:¿ 21STCV18571 Hearing Date:¿ December 27, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jesse Lauricella (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Firefly Fabrications, Justin Campbell, and Does 1 through 20 for allegations of a failure to timely make repairs and upgrades to a boat owned by Plaintiff pursuant to a contractual agreement. Plaintiff’s counsel has now filed this motion seeking Matthew Thompson (“Thompson”) to be substituted as Plaintiff’s personal representative because of Plaintiff’s passing. The motion was initially heard on July 9, 2024. The Court noted there was no declaration by Thompson to satisfy the requirements of Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32. Plaintiff was ordered to file a supplemental declaration curing the noted defect no later than eight court days prior to the continued September 9, 2024 hearing. On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff failed to abide by the Court’s July 9, 2024 Order. Instead of filing the supplemental declaration at least eight court days prior to the hearing, Plaintiff filed the supplemental declaration the day of the hearing. The motion was continued to December 27, 2024.  II. DISCUSSION The person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration stating: (1) the decedent’s name, (2) the date and place of decedent’s death, (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate,” (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered, (5) either the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest, with facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32(a)(1)-(7).) Additionally, a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32(c).) The Court has reviewed the supplemental declaration filed on September 9, 2024. Thompson’s executed declaration satisfies the requirements of CCP section 377.32.  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the motion is to substitute Plaintiff is GRANTED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: December 26, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo¿ Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 