 Case Number:  24STCV15952    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ LUIS ANTONIO ORTIZ, Plaintiff(s), vs. ELEVANCE HEALTH, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV15952 Hearing Date: December 27, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL ARBTIRATION  I. BACKGROUND On June 26, 2025, plaintiff Luis Antonio Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) initiated this FEHA action against defendants Elevance Health, Inc., Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, Blue Cross of California, The Elevance Health Companies of California, Inc., The Elevance Health Companies, Inc., The Anthem Companies, Inc., Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc., Susan Millet-Reilly, and Does 1 through 50, alleging wrongful termination despite fully supported medical leave. On October 28, 2024, defendants Elevance Health, Inc. (“Elevance Health”), Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, Blue Cross of California, The Elevance Health Companies, Inc., The Elevance Health Companies of California, Inc., The Anthem Companies, Inc., and Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and to stay further proceedings pending arbitration. Defendant Susan Millet-Reilly joins the motion. On December 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On December 19, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of (1) Elevance Health’s Certificate of Amendment of Anthem, Inc. filed with the Indiana Secretary of State with an effective date of June 27, 2022 and (2) Elevance Health’s List of Subsidiaries to its 2024 10-K Report, filed on February 21, 2024 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The requests are DENIED due to their lack of relevance. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal. App. 3d 296, 301 [Judicial notice “is always confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”]. Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice Plaintiff requests the Court to take judicial notice of motions filed in the noncitable and unpublished cases Antoniono v. Anthem, Inc., et al., Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 22STCV26353 (Antoniono) and Gonzalez v. Anthem, Inc., et al., Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 22STCV13837 (Gonzalez). The requests are DENIED.  III. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections The objections to Helmer’s declaration regarding documents and facts argued in noncitable/unpublished cases Antoniono and Gonzalez are SUSTAINED. Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections The objections to Brewer’s and Drew’s declarations are OVERRULED.  IV. LEGAL STANDARD Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)¿The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.¿(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy.¿(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy.¿ (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’”¿(Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59 (quoting CCP § 1281.2).) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract.¿ (Id. at 71.)¿ As with any other specific performance claim, “a party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to enforce.”¿ (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)¿ “Only the valid and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.”¿(Ibid.)¿ An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.”¿(Civ. Code, § 1636.) The language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit.¿ (Civ. Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to exist.”¿(Civ. Code, § 1654.) The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.¿(Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (Ibid.) “In these summary proceedings the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.¿(Ibid.)  V. DISCUSSION Defendants argue Elevance Health trains its employees annually on ethics and compliance, and that its human resources policies, including the arbitration policy, are available through its company-wide intranet. Defendants contend Plaintiff regularly completed his annual compliance refresher trainings acknowledging his ability to access and abide by all HR policies on the intranet. Defendants provide a copy of the scripts and certifications of the online annual compliance refresher trainings for the years 2017 to 2021. (Brewer Decl. ¶ 11; Exhs. 3 to 7.) The training script does not explicitly mention or provide a copy of any arbitration policy. Rather, Defendants point to the admonition at the end of the training program to support their position that Plaintiff agreed to binding arbitration because the arbitration policy was on Elevance Health’s site. (Brewer Decl. Exh. 6.) That admonition states, “[n]ow you will electronically sign the [year] Ethics and Compliance Certifications. When you do this, you certify that you have received training on the Code of Conduct and that you acknowledge the other statements in the certification” and the Code of Conduct Statement, which provides, “I received the Company’s Ethics and Compliance training and have access to a copy of our Code of Conduct. Compliance with Company policies is a condition of employment and the Company may take corrective action, including termination, for violations of: . . . Company policies and procedures . . . I have access to Human Resources policies via the Company intranet site and understand I am responsible for reading and abiding by the policies and procedures listed in them and as amended from time to time.” Defendants provide a screenshot of the interface in effect from at least July 2018 through the date Plaintiff worked at the company prior to leave of absence on February 16, 2022, where the arbitration policy was under the “My Job” category of Elevance Health’s human resources policies in the Pulse interface. (Drew Decl. ¶ 6; Exh. 1.) The arbitration policy provides, in relevant part, the following: “By entering into the employment relationship, the company and its associates subject to the policy consent to the resolution by binding arbitration of all claims arising out of or related to the termination of that relationship (and for associates commencing employment in 2001 or later, all legal disputes). This includes claims the company may have against the associate and claims the associate may have against any of the following: (1) the company, (2) its officers, directors, associates or agents, (3) the company’s parent, subsidiary and affiliates and agents, and/or (4) all successors and assigns of any of them. By agreeing to be bound by this policy, the company and its associates waive the right to a jury trial. … Except as provided in this policy, the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) shall govern the interpretation and enforcement of, and all proceedings under this policy. To the extent that the FAA is inapplicable, or is held not to require arbitration of a particular claim, state law governing agreements to arbitrate shall apply.”  (Drew Decl. ¶ 2; Exh. 2) Defendants argue that had Plaintiff sought a copy of any of the arbitration policy, the Plaintiff’s supervisor would have directed him to its location on the intranet or provided him with physical copies. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants lost twice on the same exact grounds in the California Court of Appeal for the Second Appellate District in cases Antoniono v. Elevance Health, Inc., et al. (B327595), 2024 WL 4553074 (October 23, 2024) and Gonzalez v. Anthem, Inc., et al. (B323876), 2024 WL 805140 (February 27, 2024).  Both Antoniono and Gonzalez are listed as unpublished and noncitable. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, an unpublished opinion of a California Court of Appeal or superior court appellate division must not be cited or relied on by a court or a party in any other action except when the opinion is relevant under the doctrines of law of the case, res judicata, or collateral estoppel. Plaintiff argues Defendants are collaterally estopped pursuant to Antoniono and Gonzalez; the Court reviews the issue independently and need not delve into the persuasive value of arguments and documents filed in Antoniono and Gonzalez. The Court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute. (Avery, 218 Cal. App. 4th at 59.) "Although the FAA preempts any state law that stands as an obstacle to its objective of enforcing arbitration agreements according to their terms...we apply general California contract law to determine whether the parties formed a valid agreement to arbitrate their dispute. [Citations]." (Id. at 60.) “Contract law also requires the parties agree to the same thing in the same sense.” (Ibid.) Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff never directly signed an arbitration agreement. Rather, Defendants argue Plaintiff must still arbitrate his claims because he signed certifications agreeing that he had “access to Human Resources policies” and that he is “responsible for reading and abiding by the policies and procedures listed in them and as amended from time to time.” (Brewer Decl. Exh. 6.) Thus, Defendants seek to enforce an implied-in-fact contract, wherein Elevance Health’s policies required employees to arbitrate any claims against it as a condition of their employment. "California law permits employers to implement policies that may become unilateral implied-in-fact contracts when employees accept them by continuing their employment." (Asmus v. Pac. Bell (2000) 23 Cal. 4th 1, 11.) However, “[c]ase law clearly requires an employee receive notice of a condition the employer places on the employee's employment before the employee can impliedly accept that condition by beginning or continuing to work for the employer.” (Avery, supra, 218 Cal. App. 4th at 159 citing Schachter v. Citigroup, Inc. (2009) 47 Cal. 4th 610, 620.) Defendants contend that the arbitration policy was incorporated by reference in the annual compliance trainings. “Incorporation by reference requires that (1) the reference to another document was clear and unequivocal; (2) the reference was called to the attention of the other party, who consented to that term; and (3) the terms of the incorporated documents were known or easily available to the contracting parties.” (Kleveland v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 761, 765.) Here, Defendants have provided a copy of a training course, but nowhere is an arbitration provision expressly referenced, much less clearly or unequivocally, such that it can be deemed to have been incorporated by reference. (See generally Kleveland v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2006)141 Cal. App. 4th 761 [insurer could not enforce arbitration provision in policy because preliminary title report did not incorporate that policy and therefore parties did not agree to its arbitration provision; party must establish precise arbitration provision the parties incorporated into their agreement.] Further, Plaintiff declares that the “training was online and consisted of videos and power point slides that addressed subjects like regulatory compliance” and that he does “not recall the training ever mentioning or referring to arbitration.” (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendants have not demonstrated that Plaintiff ever received notice that an arbitration policy existed at the time Plaintiff received and signed certifications for his annual compliance refresher trainings. As such, Defendants have not met their burden that there exists a valid enforceable arbitration agreement, whether it be express or implied-in-fact. Because Defendants have not met their burden, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to establish any defense of unconscionability.  VI. CONCLUSION Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and to stay further proceedings is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: December 26, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 