  Case Number:  23STCV05645    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DAVID GASTELO, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
AUTOMOBILE CLUB OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA; INTERINSURANCE EXCHANGE
  OF THE AUTOMOBILE CLUB; ACSC MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC.; HVAC, a business
  entity form unknown; HVAC INVESTIGATORS, a business entity form unknown;
  GARRET ELECTRIC, a business entity form unknown; P.W. STEPHENS, ENVIRONMENTAL,
  INC., a corporation; EXCEL RESTORATION, INC., a corporation; SYDNEY
  KLITTIVIT; and DOES 1-200, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV05645
 Hearing Date:   3/21/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Garrett
  Electric’s Demurrer [CRS# 3811].



 
Court Order
 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff David Gastelo sues Defendants Automobile Club of Southern
California, Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club (Auto Club), ACSC Management
Services, Inc. (ACSC), HVACi (business entity unknown), HVAC Investigators,
Garret Electric, P.W. Stephens, Environmental, Inc. (Stephens Environmental),
Excel Restoration, Inc. (Excel Restoration), Sydney Klittivit, and Does 1-200
pursuant to a March 14, 2023, Complaint.
The Complaint alleges claims of: (1) Bad Faith/Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing and (2) Breach of Contract against AAA
and Does 1-25; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty against ACSC and Does 1 through
125; (4) Intentional and (5) Negligent Interference with Contract against ACSC,
HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens, Environmental, Excel
Restoration and Does 1 through 125; (6) Negligence against Stephens
Environmental and Does 66 through 85; and (7) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED) against all Defendants.
The claims arise from the following allegations. The Auto Club, acting
through Defendants ACSC (as “attorney-in-fact”) and/or Sydney Klittivit, acted
in bad faith to deny Plaintiff Gastelo of an insurance policy for real and
personal property owned by Plaintiff and located at 15260 Binney Street,
Hacienda Heights, California 91745 (the Subject Property). These actions were
knowingly ratified by the Auto Club’s management. The real and personal
property were severely damaged by a fire that occurred on March 18, 2021,
causing clear and obvious physical damage, and creating significant
environmental issues, including exposure to asbestos.
Defendants HVACi, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel
Restoration—specifically not agents of the Auto Club—were engaged by Auto Club
to assist it in wrongfully denying and/or lowballing Plaintiff’s insurance
claim. Specifically: the Auto Club, acting through ACSC, dispatched HVACi, HVAC
Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration
to generate false structure, environmental, and content reports to assist Auto
Club in lowballing Plaintiff’s insurance claim for damage on the Property; HVACi,
HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel
Restoration acted in concert with the Auto Club; and ACSC, HVACi, HVAC
Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration
aided and abetted Auto Club in severely delaying proper payment. In doing so,
Auto Club acting through ACSC, HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric,
Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration violated the Insurance Code, the
Claim regulations, and Penal Code Section 550, which makes it a crime to submit
false data in response to an insurance claim.
Defendants HVACi, HVAC Investigators, Garrett Electric, Stephens
Environmental, and Excel Restoration interfered with the insurance contract or
disrupted the relationship in various ways, including but not limited to: (a)
by dramatically lowballing various issues; (b) by violating PC section 550 by
submitting false data in response to a valid insurance claim; (c) assisting,
aiding and abetting Auto Club in lowballing; and, (d) in various other ways,
according to proof.
The acts and omissions of the Auto Club (through its claims manager, Cara
Calhoon, and Chief Operating Officer, John Boyle), HVACi, HVAC Investigators,
Garrett Electric, Stephens Environmental, and Excel Restoration (a) were done
with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and with an intent to vex,
injure, annoy Plaintiff, such as to constitute oppression, fraud or malice
pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, and (b) were committed by or authorized,
ratified, or otherwise approved by officers, directors or managing agents of Defendants,
entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish,
deter, or set an example of Defendants.
B. Motion Before the Court
On December 4, 2023, Garrett
Electric filed a demurrer challenging the Complaint’s fourth, fifth, and
seventh causes of action, the only three claims alleged against this Defendant.
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
an opposition to Garrett Electric’s demurrer.
On March 14, 2024, Garrett Electric
filed a reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition.
Garrett Electric’s demurrer is now
before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer
A. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently
allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that
is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded.
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey
Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
B. Analysis
1. Demurrer,
Complaint, Fourth and Seventh Causes of Action, Intentional Interference with
Contract and Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: OVERRULED.
“The elements which a plaintiff
must plead to state the cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third
party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant’s intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126 (Pacific Gas).)
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050-1051.)
In its demurrer, Garrett Electric
argues that the fourth and seventh causes of action are alleged as conclusions
of law and lack sufficient evidentiary details to state valid causes of action.
Garrett Electric also argues that mental suffering and emotional distress
damages are not generally compensable in a mere contract action, that no
contract exists between itself and Plaintiff Gastelo, and that the Complaint
fails to allege duty factors relevant to determining whether the parties
contemplated mental suffering and emotional distress. (Demurrer, pp. 7-10,
10-11.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Gastelo
argues in favor of the sufficiency of the fourth cause of action but fails to
address Garrett Electric’s IIED arguments. (Opp’n, pp. 5-7.)
In reply, Garrett Electric
reiterates its arguments related to duty and lack of a contract. Garrett
Electric also argues that the Complaint does not sufficiently allege the wrongdoing
Garrett Electric committed and does not allege a nexus between its alleged
conduct and damages to Plaintiff Gastelo. (Reply, pp. 2-4.)
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Gastelo.
The general rule is that a
complaint must contain allegations of ultimate facts as opposed to allegations
of legal conclusions. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
551, fn. 5, citation omitted.) The complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it
alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts. (Id. at p. 550; see,
e.g., Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1391 [within context of breach of contract claim, pleadings did not
sufficiently allege ultimate facts for the position that “conditions in the
[the parties’ agreement] had been satisfied, excused or waived,” instead
limiting itself to evidentiary facts that did not sufficiently plead this
element of breach of contract].)
Here, the Complaint alleges
sufficient ultimate facts to support intentional interference with contractual
relations and IIED against Garrett Electric: at the behest of the Auto Club,
Garrett Electric intentionally and knowingly submitted false documents and data
in response to Plaintiffs’ valid insurance claim for the fire that damaged the
Subject Property and chattel within (“lowballing” as to “electrical system and
related issues”), which Garrett Electric did in violation of Section 550 of the
California Penal Code, or did to aid and abet the Auto Club’s “lowballing”
(Complaint, ¶¶ 23-24, 31(r)-(t), 44, 46(d)-(f), 47(a), 51, 62); Garrett
Electric performed these actions in concert with the Auto Club and other
Defendants as to deny Plaintiff his rights under the insurance policy with the
Auto Club (Complaint, ¶ 54); the Auto Club relied on those reports to lowball
the insurance coverage due to Plaintiff (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 31);
management at Garrett Electric ratified this conduct (Complaint, ¶ 54); and
damages of $3 million to Plaintiff through general damages, loss of use of
funds and the Subject Property, and cost of consultants, public adjuster, and
attorney’s fees, among other things (Complaint ¶¶ 53-54). (See also, e.g.,
Complaint, ¶¶ 51 [specific ultimate facts of interference with Auto Club
insurance policy’s intended benefits], 62 [specific ultimate facts for IIED].)
Such allegations state the
existence of an insurance policy in favor of Plaintiff as issued by the Auto
Club, of which Garrett Electric was aware, with Garrett Electric’s conduct
disrupting the contractual relationship by denying Plaintiff Gastelo the
benefit of the contract, thus damaging Plaintiff. (See Pacific Gas, supra,
50 Cal.3d at p. 1126.)
Moreover, the Court determines that
a scheme designed to deny a homeowner their rights under an insurance contract,
the purpose of which is to make the homeowner whole in case of a loss, such as
alleged here with the fire damaging the Subject Property and personal property within,
may constitute extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress, which could cause Plaintiff severe or extreme emotional
distress, as well as damages. (Hughes v. Pair, supra, 46 Cal.4th
at pp. 1050-1051; see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 23-24, 31, 31(r)-(t), 44, 46(d)-(f),
47(a), 51-54, 61-63, 61-63 [appearing twice in pleading], 65.)
The Court finds no merit to the
demurrer argument that the Complaint lacks sufficient evidentiary facts to
apprise Garrett Electric of the bases for liability against it. The Complaint
need only plead ultimate facts (Doe v. City of Los Angeles, supra,
42 Cal.4th at p. 551, fn. 5) and is clear. As cited above, Garrett Electric is
alleged to have been hired to draft certain “electrical issue” reports that
knowingly contained falsified data, so drafted for the purpose of giving the Auto
Club a basis to lowball Plaintiff’s insurance coverage for the Subject Property
following the fire that damaged that Property and the chattel within. Those
ultimate facts sufficiently support the two above claims, as discussed in the
preceding paragraphs. Evidentiary facts need not be alleged and can be
ascertained during discovery. (See Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 616 [“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures”]; see also Dahlquist
v. State (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 208, 212-213 [Because discovery through
“depositions, interrogatories, requests for admission, etc.” is the “modern
method of” “ascertain[ing] every fact known to plaintiffs and their witnesses,”
“reason [exists] for some relaxation of rigidity in application of the rules relating
to the sufficiency of complaints,” citations omitted].)
Accordingly, Garrett Electric’s
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s fourth and seventh causes of
action.
2. Demurrer,
Complaint, Fifth Cause of Action, Negligent Interference with Contract: SUSTAINED,
without leave to amend.
There is no cause of action for
negligent interference with a contract in California. (Davis v. Nadrich
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1, 9.) It therefore follows that the fifth cause of
action is fatally defective. (Demurrer, p. 10 [making this argument].) The
opposition accepts this conclusion. (Opp’n, p. 3, ¶ e.)
Garrett Electric’s demurrer is thus
SUSTAINED to this cause of action, without leave to amend. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Garrett Electric’s Demurrer [CRS# 3811] is OVERRULED in part
and SUSTAINED in part as follows:
(1) OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s fourth and seventh causes of action;
and
(2) SUSTAINED, without leave to
amend, as to the Complaint’s fifth cause of action.