 Case Number:  23STCV15040    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ELISA MORALES SANCHEZ, an individual; and LUIS AGUILAR GALVAN,
  an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
GENERAL MOTORS LLC; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV15040
 Hearing Date:   3/21/24
 Trial Date:        10/15/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs Elisa
  Morales Sanchez and Luis Aguilar Galvan’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
  to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Elisa Morales Sanchez
and Luis Aguilar Galvan sue Defendants General Motors LLC (GM) and Does 1
through 10 pursuant to a June 8, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2) Violation of
Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3) Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty,
Civil Code Section 1791.2 Subdivision (a); Section 1794; and (5) Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability, Civil Code Section 1791.1; Section 1794.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. On October 2, 2020, Plaintiffs purchased a 2020 Chevrolet Traverse
(Vehicle) that was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant GM. Plaintiff
received an express written warranty in which Defendant GM undertook to
preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the Vehicle or to provide
compensation if there was a failure in utility or performance for a specified
period of time. After Plaintiff took possession of the Vehicle and during the
warranty period, the Vehicle contained or developed defects that substantially
impair the use, safety, and/or value of the Vehicle, including but not limited
to defective body, powertrain, safety, electrical, braking, and noise systems.
Plaintiff provided Defendant GM sufficient opportunity to service or repair the
Vehicle, but GM was unable and/or failed to service or repair the Vehicle
within a reasonable number of attempts while failing to promptly replace or
repurchase the Vehicle.
B. Motion Before the Court
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiffs served
Requests for Production of Documents (RPDs), Set One, on Defendant GM.
On November 11, 2023, Defendant GM
served responses to RPDs, Set One, which are comprised of two groups: (1) objections
coupled with statements indicating that GM will not produce responsive
documents (RPDs, Set One, Nos. 7-8, 10, 12-17, 19-21, 23, 25-27, 29-30, 34-47,
49-57); and (2) objections coupled with unverified statements of compliance
(RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-6, 9, 11, 18, 22, 24, 31-33, 48).
Between October 6, 2023, and
December 18, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent various meet and confer letters to
GM’s counsel, in which Plaintiffs’ counsel sought to confer about
electronically stored information (ESI) involved in RPDs, Set One, GM’s allegedly
boilerplate objections and limited discovery responses, and the narrowing of
databases involved in the ESI production at issue.
On December 27, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a motion to compel further responses and production from GM relating to
RPDs, Set One, Nos. 16-21.
On March 8, 2024, GM filed an
opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion.
No reply from Plaintiffs appears in
the record.
Plaintiffs’ motion is now before
the Court.
The Court briefly notes that
neither the moving papers nor the opposition seek monetary sanctions.
 
II. Motion to Compel Further Production: GRANTED.
A. Legal Standard
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, complete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)).
B. Analysis
1. Production
Requests at Issue
RPDs, Set One, defines “[t]he term
‘SAFETY DEFECT’ shall be understood to mean such defects which result in
symptoms including, but not limited to: driver’s side door does not lock or
unlock; driver door lock latch internal signal circuit failure; replace door
lock latch internal signal circuit; premature failure of door lock latch;
Intermittent Door Locks Inoperative; #21-NA-183; second row middle seat does
not lock in place; second row seat makes a rattle noise when going over bumps;
second row seat loose; #21-NA-040; Squeak, Rattle or Creak Noise Originating
from Second Row Seat Area; and any other concern identified in the repair
history for the subject 2020 CHEVROLET TRAVERSE; Vehicle Identification Number
1GNERGKW1LJ305311.” (Mot., Lee Decl., Ex. 4, p. 3, ¶ 5.)
RPDs, Set One, No. 16 requests:
“All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information
and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any internal analysis or
investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding the SAFETY DEFECT in vehicles
of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This request shall
be interpreted to include, but not be limited to, any such investigation to
determine the root cause of such SAFETY DEFECT, any such investigation to
design a permanent repair procedure for such SAFETY DEFECT, any such
investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with such SAFETY
DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair procedures, any
savings analysis not implementing a proposed repair procedures, etc.]”
RPDs, Set One, No. 17 requests:
“All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information
and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any communications YOU have had
regarding SAFETY DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 18 requests:
“All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information
and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any decision to issue any
notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, technical service bulletins
and recalls concerning the SAFETY DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 19 requests:
“All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information
and electronic mails, concerning customer complaints, claims, reported
failures, and warranty claims related to SAFETY DEFECT, in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including but not limited to any
databases in YOUR possession with information from dealers, service
departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and all documents
concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported failure.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 20 requests:
“All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information
and electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of SAFETY DEFECT.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 21 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any fixes for SAFETY DEFECT in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
(Mot., Lee Decl., Ex. 4, pp. 6-8.)
2. GM’s
Objections
On November 11, 2023, Defendant GM
served responses to RPDs, Set One, which are comprised of two groups: (1)
objections coupled with statements indicating that GM will not produce
responsive documents (RPDs, Set One, Nos. 7-8, 10, 12-17, 19-21, 23, 25-27,
29-30, 34-47, 49-57); and (2) objections coupled with unverified statements of
compliance (RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-6, 9, 11, 18, 22, 24, 31-33, 48).
(Mot., Lee Decl., Ex. 5, pp. 1-43.)
GM’s objections to RPDs, Set One,
Nos. 16-21 fall into the following categories:
(1) Vagueness and ambiguity in
terms;
(2) Requests improperly assume
defect;
(3) Requests are overbroad, lack
relevance, and ask for information that is not relevant or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence because the
sought-after evidence is not limited to the Subject Vehicle;
(4) Requests are unduly burdensome
and oppressive based on the needs of the case because whether Plaintiffs are
entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely
unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of Plaintiffs’ requests;
(5) Requests involve confidential,
proprietary, and trade secret information; and
(6) Information is protected by the
attorney-client privilege and the attorney work-product doctrine.
(See Mot., Separate Statement, pp.
3-4, 11-12, 19-20, 27-28, 35-36, 43-44.)
3. Merits of
Objections and Production
First, the Court determines that
RPDs, Set One, Nos. 16-21 seek relevant information that is not overbroad. The
Song-Beverly Act provides for civil penalties through two separate means: (1)
where the manufacturer’s non-compliance with the Act is willful (i.e.,
intentional violation of the Act); and (2) penalties where the manufacturer
violates its express warranty obligations. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subds. (c),
(e)(1)-(5).) Here, the Complaint alleges safety defects, which are the
subject of RPDs, Set One, Nos. 16-21. (Complaint, ¶ 11(c); Mot., Lee Decl., Ex.
4, pp. 3, 6-8.) The moving papers attach copies of Plaintiff’s authorized
repair facility visits and two technical service bulletins, which show repairs
or reference bulletin numbers that Plaintiffs defined as “safety defects” in
RPDs, Set One. (Cf. Mot., Lee Decl., Ex. 4, p. 3, ¶ 5 [safety defects defined],
with Mot., Lee Decl., Exs. 1 [copies of repair visit history] & 2-3
[technical service bulletins].) A finding of willful noncompliance with the SBA
could arise from a determination that GM had knowledge of nonconformable
defects in the safety system or based on information relating to the above
service bulletins, which could have provided GM a basis for knowing that it
could not conform the Vehicle as a result of the effect of these defects on the
safety system or of a more global safety failure that affected multiple
components in the Vehicle’s safety system. This makes the discovery relevant,
even if it involves third party complaints. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c).)
Second, the Court briefly disposes
of the vagueness and ambiguity objections based on the clarity of the
definition of the safety system and the specific components alleged to have
been affected here. (Compare Mot., Lee Decl., Exs. 1-3, with id. at Ex.
4, p. 3, ¶ 5.)
Third, the (1) undue burden and
oppression, (2) attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product, and (3) assumes-a-defect
objections are not availing. These objections are not more than cursorily
elaborated in GM’s initial objections (see Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 3-4,
11-12, 19-20, 27-28, 35-36, 43-44), and are insufficiently elaborated in the
separate statement (see Opp’n, Separate Statement, pp. 2-5, 7, 9-13, 14, 15, 16)
and the opposition points and authorities (see Opp’n, pp. 3-8).
Fourth, the Court determines that
sufficient meet and confer efforts preceded the filing of this motion. (Mot.,
Lee Decl., ¶¶ 17-27.) The fact that the parties strongly disagree as to the
scope of discovery is not tantamount to a failure to meet and confer, nor is
the failure to modify the production requests prior to filing a motion to
compel that discovery. (See Opp’n, Kay Decl., ¶ 5.)
Last, the Court finds some merit to
the trade secret arguments advanced by GM, though insufficient evidence has
been filed in support of this argument. (Opp’n, pp. 7-8.)
As argued by GM, “the documents
Plaintiffs seek may relate to and contain confidential communications between
GM employees and GM’s suppliers and/or sub-suppliers concerning technical,
mechanical, and commercial issues and analyses,” which is information “often
used by GM when assessing root cause analyses and what actions, if any, may
need to be taken to address a particular component- or service-related issue.”
As a result, “these documents affect GM’s design decision, and its design
decisions are how it separates itself from other competitors in the market.
These analyses are commercially sensitive business information that GM does not
make available to the general public, the disclosure of which would cause GM
competitive harm.” (Opp’n, pp. 7-8.)
However, the Lu declaration that
serves as the basis for the above quoted statements from GM is not a
declaration that was drafted in support of this specific action or dispute, but
rather, involves a declaration signed by Huizhen Lu in October 2018 in what
appears to be a separate action. Indeed, the declaration was executed well before
this action was filed on June 8, 2023. (Opp’n, Kay Decl., Ex. A.) The lack of a
relationship between this action and the Lu declaration undermines its use in
these proceedings.
 Moreover, the Court notes that the trade
secret privilege does not protect information from discovery when protecting
that information would work an injustice. (Evid. Code, § 1060; Hypertouch,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1527, 1554-1555; Bridgestone/Firestone,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1389-1390 (Bridgestone/Firestone).)
For example, the trade-secret privilege cannot be used to prevent disclosure of
information to a plaintiff if the information is directly relevant to a
material element of the plaintiff’s cause of action and nondisclosure of the
information would put the plaintiff at an unfair disadvantage in the suit. (Bridgestone/Firestone,
supra, at p. 1392.) The question of whether nondisclosure will work an
injustice requires the court to balance the interests of the parties in light
of the circumstances of the suit. (Id. at p. 1393.)
Additionally, a discovering party
can argue that the information protected by the trade-secret privilege is
discoverable based on necessity and fairness. The party must make a prima facie,
particularized showing that (1) the information is relevant and necessary to a
material element of its cause of action or defense and (2) the information is
reasonably essential to a fair resolution of the suit. (Citizens of
Humanity, LLC v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1, 13,
disapproved on other grounds, Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51
Cal.4th 310; Bridgestone/Firestone, supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1393.)
Here, if GM had knowledge of
nonconformable defects in the safety system used in cars of the same make,
year, and model as the Vehicle purchased by Plaintiffs and nevertheless refused
to replace or repurchase Plaintiffs’ Vehicle, it could be an injustice to
prevent disclosure of such discovery based on the trade secret privilege, particularly
where such discovery may be essential to a fair resolution of the suit’s
willfulness component under the SBA.
The Court rejects the opposition
arguments related to RPDs, Set One, No. 18. (Opp’n, pp. 6-7.) The request is
facially broad, but whether the request is overbroad is a question framed by
the needs of the litigation. As discussed above, information relating to GM’s
knowledge of nonconformable defects in the Vehicle here—as gleaned from
complaints or repair histories of other cars of the same make, year, and
model—could assist a determination of SBA penalties, making the discovery
relevant. RPDs, Set One, No. 18 fits within that type of information because it
relates to GM’s knowledge of safety defects in cars like the Vehicle here and
the use of that information in issuing technical service bulletins and other
publications.
Last, to the extent that Defendant GM
again raises privilege objections, e.g., trade secrets, the Court ORDERS GM to
provide a privilege log in conformity with Hernandez v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 291, fn. 6—provided, of course, that no protective
or other order is already in place to address privilege concerns in discovery.
Based on the above, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion as to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 16-21, so long as the
search for responsive documents is limited to the same source code and technical
bulletins at issue in this case and without production of any attorney/client
or work product privileged documents. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiffs Elisa Morales Sanchez
and Luis Aguilar Galvan’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED. The Court declines to sign the
proposed order filed by Plaintiffs based on its overbroad requests for relief,
e.g., striking or waiving Defendant General Motors LLC’s objections. Defendant General Motors
LLC is ORDERED to, within 30 days of this order, comply with production as
directed above.