  Case Number:  19STCV20062    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JACOB
  REICH
                           
         vs.
 
MANSOUR
  HASHEM
 


 Case No.: 19STCV20062
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: December 4, 2024



            
            The
Receiver’s motion for an Order (1) approving and settling the Receiver’s final
report and accounting, (2) approving final compensation and reimbursement of
expenses, (3) approving the Receiver’s recommended distribution of funds, (4)
exonerating all bonds, (5) terminating the Receivership appointment, and (6)
retaining jurisdiction regarding this Receivership appointment is GRANTED. 
 
On June 7, 2019, Plaintiff Jacob Reich filed
a Complaint against Defendant Mansour Hashem. On September 1, 2020, Plaintiff
filed a second amended complaint (SAC) alleging: (1) breach of written
contract; (2) money had and received; (3) common counts; (4) open book account;
(5) account stated; (6) failure to honor checks; (7) fraud; (8) negligence; (9)
unjust enrichment; (10) judiciary foreclosure; and (11) reformation of
contract. 
 
            On
8/30/2024, Receiver Kevin Singer moved for an order (1) approving and settling
the Receiver’s final report and accounting, (2) approving final compensation
and reimbursement of expenses, (3) approving the Receiver’s recommended
distribution of funds, (4) exonerating all bonds, (5) terminating the
Receivership appointment, and (6) retaining jurisdiction regarding this
Receivership appointment.
 
Factual Background
 
On July 30,
2024, the Court entered “Order Appointing Kevin Singer as Superior Court
Receiver” (the Appointing Order) which appointed the Receiver to manage and
sell three real properties (the Properties) to aid in judgment enforcement at
the request of Plaintiff Jacob Reich. The Appointing Order did not set forth
the exact amount owed on Plaintiff’s judgment (the Judgment), but rather noted
that the principal amount was $357,801.80, plus certain costs and fees and
interest, less sums already collected by Plaintiff. The Receiver subsequently
filed his Oath of Receiver, posted his $10,000 bond, engaged Prime West
Management (Prime West) as property manager for the Properties, and began
carrying out his duties. On August 22, 2024, the Court, the Honorable Richard
L. Fruin presiding, granted the Receiver’s ex parte application (the
Application) for instructions regarding termination of the Receivership in
light of a settlement payment made by Defendant Mansour Hashem and directed him
to return control of the Properties to Defendant and file a final accounting,
and so the Receiver now seeks discharge by way of this Motion (Singer Dec., ¶
2, Exh. 1.)
 
Almost
immediately following entry of the Appointing Order, Defendant contacted the
Receiver’s office and claimed that one of the Properties, 10826 Wagner Street,
was in escrow and that the sale would pay off the Judgment. It is the
Receiver’s standard practice to attempt to facilitate settlement negotiations
between the parties to receivership matters in order to resolve his
appointments as early as possible, and so the Receiver urged Defendant to speak
with Plaintiff directly. (Id., ¶ 4.)
 
On August 5,
2024, Plaintiff emailed the Receiver a copy of a proposed settlement agreement
whereby Defendant would pay $440,000, plus all Receivership fees and expenses,
to resolve the Judgment. Shortly thereafter, Plaintiff sent a follow-up email
to the Receiver stating, in pertinent part, “The reason it is $440,000.00 and
not $460,000.00 is that I agreed to give him $20,000.00 discount in exchange
for him abandoning/dismissing the appeal.” Accordingly, the Receiver understood
based on Plaintiff’s representation that the amount required to satisfy the
Judgment was $460,000. (Id., ¶¶ 5 – 7, Exh. 2 – 4.)
 
On August 6,
2024, Plaintiff asked the Receiver’s office to collect funds from Defendant in
order to pay the Receiver’s fees and expenses in connection with the tentative
settlement agreement. That evening, the Receiver’s Senior Project Manager,
Jackson Wyche (Wyche), circulated to the Parties an outline of the procedure to
carry out the draft settlement agreement and a proposed final accounting
stipulation that would terminate the receivership, including an accounting of
the Receiver’s fees and expenses incurred to date. Wyche advised that the
Receiver’s fees and expenses were estimated to total $15,000, including the
fees and expenses for a stipulated final accounting. (Id., ¶¶ 8 – 12,
Exh. 5 – 6.)
 
On August 8,
2024, Defendant’s appellate counsel, Jeff Price, Esq. (Price), advised the
Receiver’s office that he understood the outstanding amount owed on the
judgment to be $439,366.83, and that he had asked Plaintiff to provide an
accounting. Plaintiff then agreed to provide the accounting by Monday, August
12, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 12 – 13, Exh. 7.)
 
On August 9,
2024, Defendant agreed to pay $475,000 to the Receiver to resolve the
receivership based on Plaintiff’s payoff amount, consisting of $460,000 to
satisfy the judgment plus $15,000 for the Receiver’s fees and expenses,
including a stipulated final accounting. On August 12, 2024, the funds arrived
in the Receiver’s trust account for this matter. On the evening of August 13th,
Plaintiff presented his accounting, alleging that $467,833.30 was owed, plus
daily interest at $117.53 per day. (Id., ¶¶ 14 – 15, Exh. 8.)
 
Wyche
presented the accounting to Defendant the following morning (August 14, 2024)
and proposed that Defendant transfer an additional $9,000 to the Receiver to
satisfy the additional amount Plaintiff claimed was owed, noting that the Receiver’s
fees and expenses were approaching $15,000 so the payoff figure previously
quoted would no longer be valid if the parties did not reach a swift resolution
(as the $15,000 estimate assumed that the Parties had already agreed on the
settlement terms, and that minimal additional negotiation would be required).
Price responded, disputed the accounting, and alleged that Plaintiff had failed
to account for additional payments received toward the judgment. Wyche then
proposed to Plaintiff that he accept the $460,000 to satisfy the judgment and
stipulate to the Receiver’s discharge. The following morning (August 15, 2024),
Plaintiff instead proposed that he accept the $460,000 as partial satisfaction,
stipulate to the Receiver’s discharge, and continue pursuing the purported
additional balance owed after the termination of the receivership. Wyche
confirmed that Defendant would agree to those terms, modified the proposed
stipulation accordingly, and asked Plaintiff to confirm his agreement (to his
own proposal) by the end of the morning—but Plaintiff declined to agree. (Id.,
¶¶ 16 – 22, Exh. 9 – 12.)
 
Finally, on
the afternoon of August 16th, instead of providing comment on the proposed
final accounting stipulation, Plaintiff presented his own proposed stipulation,
which was substantively equivalent to the proposal Defendant had agreed to,
except that it required Defendant to acknowledge that a greater amount than
$460,000 was owed—which was a nonstarter—and failed to include the necessary
provisions regarding termination of the receivership and exoneration of the
Receiver’s bond. Wyche then advised Plaintiff that he could either agree to the
proposed stipulation prepared by the Receiver’s office based on Plaintiff’s own
proposal (which Defendant had already signed, and which acknowledged that the
$460,000 payment would be “in partial satisfaction” of the Judgment), or else
the Receiver would be forced to seek the Court’s instructions, which would
deplete the $10,000 funding advance Plaintiff had provided, as it would cause
the Receiver’s fees and expenses to exceed the $15,000 provided by Defendant.
Plaintiff did not agree to the stipulation or provide any proposed changes. (Id.,
¶¶ 23 – 26, Exh. 13 – 15.)
 
Faced with a
dispute amongst the Parties as to whether the Judgment had been satisfied, with
fees mounting each day because of the Receiver’s duty to manage three
residential properties, the Receiver filed the Application. Department 17 was
dark on the August 21 scheduled hearing date, and Department 15 agreed to hear
the matter on the following day after initial oral argument. On August 22, the
Court, the Honorable Richard L. Fruin presiding, granted the Application,
thereby terminating the Receiver’s management duties and directing him to file
a final accounting. During the hearing, the Court asked the Receiver what steps
remained to conclude the receivership, and Wyche advised that the Receiver
would once again seek Plaintiff’s agreement on a final accounting stipulation,
but would file a final accounting motion by the end of the following week
should Plaintiff fail to stipulate. Following the hearing, the Receiver
returned possession of the Properties to Defendant. (Id., ¶ 28.)
 
That
afternoon, Wyche presented a revised draft of the stipulation to the Parties,
taking into account the concerns raised by Plaintiff for the first time in his
opposition, requested comment by close of business the following day, and set a
deadline of close of business on Wednesday, August 28 to finalize the
stipulation, after which time the Receiver would need to begin preparing the
instant Motion in order to file it by the end of the week. Wyche included
updated copies of the Receiver’s billing statements in the email. (Id.,
¶¶ 29 – 30, Exh. 16.)
 
Defendant
signed the proposed stipulation on August 23, 2024. Neither Plaintiff nor his
counsel provided substantive comment on the proposed stipulation; instead,
Plaintiff emailed Wyche directly to demand that he receive a refund of the full
$10,000 funding advance—which Wyche explained was no longer possible because
Plaintiff had forced the Receiver to deplete the advance via the Application.
Despite repeated follow-up by the Receiver’s office, Plaintiff refused to
stipulate (and accused the Receiver of “extortion” for explaining that not stipulating
would force the Receiver to incur additional fees and expenses), thereby
forcing the Receiver to prepare the instant Motion. (Id., ¶¶ 31 – 36,
Exh. 17 - 20.)
 
Discussion 
 
The Receiver
contends that “[g]iven that the Court has already ordered the Receiver to
prepare his final accounting, the Properties have been returned to Defendant,
and Defendant has submitted a $475,000 payment to the Receiver pursuant to
Plaintiff’s initial payoff demand, the Receiver has completed his duties under
the Appointing Order and should be discharged, and the receivership appointment
should be terminated.” (Motion, 5: 5-9.)
 
After review,
the Court agrees. 
 
The
Receiver’s motion included billings records and invoices which indicate that he
has incurred total fees of $24,330.50 and total expenses of $967.34, for a
total outstanding balance of $25,297.84.[1]
Additionally, Prime West collected rents totaling $2,400, paid expenses
totaling $500 (for its monthly management fee) and is currently holding $1,900
in its property management bank account pending further order of this Court. (Id.,
¶ 38, Exh. 22.)
 
The Receiver
is currently holding funds totaling $485,000 in his trust account, which
consists of $10,000 provided by Plaintiff pursuant to paragraph 3 of the
Appointing Order (which “shall be used to cover the cost of the bond and the
Receiver’s initial fees and expenses”), $460,000 provided by Defendant to pay
the Judgment, and $15,000 provided by Defendant to pay the Receiver’s fees and
expenses. The Receiver also anticipates that his trust account will accrue
interest before this Motion is heard.” (Id., ¶ 33, Exh. 23 - 24.)
 
            “[T]he
court when appointing the receiver and when explicitly or impliedly authorizing
him to incur indebtedness, pledges the faith of the court that its officer will
be paid his compensation…” (2 Clark on Receivers (3rd Ed. 1959) § 637.1(e) at
p. 1058.) The court in McLane v. Placerville, and Sacramento R.R. Co.
(1885) 66 Cal. 606 noted: 
 
The expenses
of a [receiver] in the execution of the [receivership] are a lien upon the
estate, and he will not be compelled to part with the property until his
disbursements are paid…If a person undertakes an office for another in relation
to property, he has a natural right to be reimbursed for all money necessarily
expended in the performance of the duty. The costs of winding up a
[receivership] and distributing the money, and all expenses for documents,
deeds and other papers, must be paid from the [receivership] fund.”
 
(Mclane,
supra, 66 Cal. at p. 622-623.) 
 
Here,
California receivership law is clear that the funds should first be applied to
pay the Receiver’s fees and expenses, and all remaining funds should be
released to the Plaintiff to satisfy the Judgment. (Id.) As for the
question of how to apply the payments toward the Judgment, and how to apportion
responsibility for the Receiver’s fees and expenses, the Court accepts the
Receiver’s proposal that “Defendant’s $460,000 payment should be credited in
full against the Judgment as of the date it was paid to the Receiver, and that
Plaintiff should be responsible for the Receiver’s fees and expenses in excess
of $15,000, because it was Plaintiff’s unreasonable and dilatory conduct that
forced the Receiver to incur said fees and expenses. (Id., ¶ 34.)” (Motion, 6:
11-15.) 
 
This
conclusion is based on the extensive timeline of events set forth by the
Receiver, and replicated above as “Factual Background.” The Receiver’s motion
indicates that Defendant acted with speed to resolve the Judgment following the
Receiver’s appointment, and promptly performed what was asked of him. By
contrast, “Plaintiff unreasonably refused to cooperate with the Receiver,
ignoring deadlines, submitting proposals and then reversing his positions, and
opposing the Receiver’s efforts to resolve his appointment and release the
funds in his possession to Plaintiff. Plaintiff was provided with repeated
opportunities to avoid this outcome, and clear explanations of the consequences
should he refuse to cooperate, to no avail.” (Motion, 8: 2-6.) Accordingly,
equity weighs in Defendant’s favor, and it would be inequitable to force him to
bear the costs of Receiver fees and expenses incurred solely due to Plaintiff’s
unreasonable conduct after Defendant tendered his settlement payment.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants the Receiver’s request for the following: 
 
-        
Defendant be credited $460,000 against
the amount of the Judgment—which amount is subject to future determination by
the Court, given the Parties’ ongoing dispute—as of August 12, 2024.
 
-        
All funds remaining in the Receiver’s
trust account after payment of the Receiver’s fees and expenses be released to
Plaintiff, with an explicit finding that $10,297.84, plus any additional
amounts incurred after the filing of this Motion, of the fees and expenses are
Plaintiff’s sole responsibility (meaning that such amounts are not to be added
on to the remaining balance of the Judgment, if any). 
 
-        
The remaining $1,900 held by Prime West
should also be released to Plaintiff and credited against the Judgment as of
the date the funds are actually transferred to Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 43.)
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  


