 Case Number:  24STCV10194    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BOZHO
  DERANJA 
                           
         vs.
 
ERIC
  GREENE 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  24STCV10194
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 4, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
On 4/23/2024,
Plaintiff Bozho Deranga (Plaintiff) filed suit against Eric Greene (Defendant),
alleging unlawful detainer. 
 
On 9/30/2024,
pro per Defendant moved for sanctions against Plaintiff’s attorney
(though the motion was titled as a motion for reconsideration). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that he is entitled to sanctions because Plaintiff’s attorney
purposefully misfiled this case as unlimited, and intentionally left it
unsealed, damaging Defendant’s credit and rental history. Defendant also argues
Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in burdensome discovery. 
 
            In
order to qualify for sanctions under CCP section 128.5, the tactics must be
"frivolous" and under the statute the term "Frivolous"
means either: (1) "totally and completely without merit'; or (2) "for
the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party." (CCP 128.5(b)(2))
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel contends that he filed his Complaint as unlimited
jurisdiction “because damages were going to accrue each day Defendant remained
in possession during this litigation. Just because Plaintiff demanded
$28,847.58 in past-due rent in his complaint did not mean that Plaintiff would
have recovered less than $35,000 from Defendant, since Plaintiff also sought
holdover damages at the rate of $77.77 per day from April 1, 2024.” (Opp., 3:
10-14.) 
 
            In
light of this explanation, the Court finds an insufficient basis to concluded
that the filing of this action in unlimited jurisdiction was either totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing Defendant. 
 
            For
this reason, the Court also finds an insufficient basis to conclude that the
decision to file in Unlimited was an intentional effort by Plaintiff’s counsel
to evade the sealing requirement of limited UD actions. Moreover, as noted by
Plaintiff, the record in this case was sealed pursuant to Defendant’s request,
and there was no money judgment entered. Plaintiff’s opposition sets forth additional
actions that Defendant can take to remove the online history of this action. 
 
            Finally,
Defendant has set forth insufficient evidence that the discovery propounded in
this case was so burdensome as to warrant sanctions. Plaintiff was entitled to
utilize all available discovery devices authorized by the Civil Discovery Act (CCP
§ 2019.010), including depositions, interrogatories, demands for inspection,
and requests for admission. Just because Plaintiff filed motions in limine to
exclude habitability and harassment issues from trial does not mean that
Plaintiff's discovery requests were designed to harass Defendant. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for sanctions is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 