..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 24SMCV03181
Plaintiff's Name: Pasquale Falcone
Defendant's Name: Century City Mall, LLC, et al. (Westfield, LLC, Clune Construction, PSI3G, Inc., dba PSI Partition Specialties, Tile Tech, Inc., and Kronos USA)
People-Names: Pasquale Falcone, Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Company-Names: Century City Mall, LLC, Westfield, LLC, Clune Construction, PSI3G, Inc., dba PSI Partition Specialties, Tile Tech, Inc., Kronos USA
Places: Westfield Century City Mall, Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
Dates: July 24, 2022, September 26, 2024
Events: Plaintiff's fall into a hole at Westfield Century City Mall, motion to strike paragraph 17 of the Complaint
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff alleges that the tile had manufacturing and design defects and did not include sufficient warnings; Defendants argue that the allegations are irrelevant and inflammatory
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that on July 24, 2022, he was working at a restaurant inside the Westfield Century City Mall when a tile broke apart, causing him to fall into a hole
Disputes: Plaintiff's claims for premises liability, product liability, res ipsa loquitur, and negligence; Defendants' motion to strike paragraph 17 of the Complaint
Acts: Plaintiff's fall into a hole; alleged failure of Defendants to investigate, collect, and preserve evidence
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (Code Civ. Proc.) ยง436, subdivision (a) and (b), and ยง437
Case Citations: Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768, and Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Significant Statements: "It is simply too early at this stage to conclude this allegation is immaterial, as it is possible Plaintiff could establish that Moving Defendants had an obligation to preserve evidence, and their failure to do so establishes spoliation and gives rise to an adverse inference."
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The court has denied the motion to strike paragraph 17 of the Complaint filed by the defendants, Westfield, LLC, Century City Mall, LLC, Clune Construction, PSI3G, Inc., dba PSI Partition Specialties, Tile Tech, Inc., and Kronos USA. The paragraph in question alleges that the defendants had policies and procedures in place to investigate, collect, and preserve evidence after an injury or incident, and that they failed to do so in this case. The court finds that this allegation is not irrelevant or immaterial, and that it is possible that the plaintiff could establish that the defendants had an obligation to preserve evidence and that their failure to do so gives rise to an adverse inference. The court notes that it is too early in the proceedings to conclude that this allegation is immaterial, and that the plaintiff should be allowed to amend the Complaint to address any defects that may arise from the defendants' failure to preserve evidence.
