  Case Number:  23SMCV05304    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   CARL BARNEY,    Plaintiff, v.  SIENNA CHARLES, LLC, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV05304     Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:    PLAINTIFF’s motion for leave to     file third amended complaint    AND DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER AND    MOTION TO STRIKE SECOND AMENDED    COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract and fraud case.  Defendants Sienna Charles LLC and Jaclyn Sienna India-Reinert provide bespoke travel services for high-wealth individuals.  Plaintiff Carl Barney retained Defendants’ services to arrange for travel in Europe and the Middle East.  Plaintiff claims Defendants breached the parties’ contract by poor planning and lack of communication.  Plaintiff also claims Defendants misrepresented their expertise.   The operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) alleges claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, and (3) unfair business practices.    This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”).  The proposed TAC seeks to add claims for: (1) Money Had and Received; (2) Recission of Contract; (3) Quasi-Contract; and (4) Conversion.  Plaintiff claims these additional claims are all related to the same nexus of facts alleged from the outset of this dispute.  LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1), provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ Under California Rules of Court Rule, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a),¿a motion to amend a pleading shall:¿ (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;¿ (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and¿ (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿¿ ¿ In addition, under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b),¿a¿separate declaration¿must accompany the motion and must specify:¿¿ (1) the effect of the amendment;¿ (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;¿ (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and¿ (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ ¿¿ The Court’s discretion to grant leave “should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the Court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿¿The Court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿¿ DISCUSSION Plaintiff’s declaration in support of the motion fails to meet the requirements under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.  Plaintiff does not identify the specific amendments.  Plaintiff also fails to explain the effect of each proposed amendment or the recently received information that prompted the amendment.  Additionally, he does not explain why the amendments are necessary and proper, and why the amendments could not have been made earlier.  However, while Plaintiff’s declaration is deficient, he provides the required information in his motion and exhibits, and in the interest of moving the case forward, the Court will consider the motion to amend on its merits. Plaintiff seeks to add new claims because the Court found his earlier claims deficient.  Plaintiff brought the motion to amend shortly after the Court sustained the demurrer to his first amended complaint and granted a motion to strike his punitive damages claim.  The motion for leave to amend was not filed earlier because counsel attempted without success to obtain a stipulation from Defendants for Plaintiff to amend his complaint.  On these facts, the Court concludes there was no undue delay in bringing the motion to amend.   In any event, delay alone will not justify denying leave to amend.  Although it is true “a court may deny a good amendment in proper form where there is unwarranted delay in presenting it,” it remains the¿case that “where there is no prejudice to the adverse party, it may be an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend.”  (Fair v. Bakhtiari (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1147; see also¿Kittredge Sports co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048¿(“[Defendant] contends [Plaintiff] unreasonably delayed moving to amend… [e]ven if this were so, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”));¿Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761¿(“[I]t is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”);¿Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545¿(“In spite of this policy of liberality, a court may deny a good amendment in proper form where there is unwarranted delay in presenting it. On the other hand, where there is no prejudice to the adverse party, it may be an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend.”) (citations omitted). Prejudice exists, for example, where the plaintiff unduly delayed in seeking leave to amend, and the amendment will require a trial continuance and a reopening of discovery on the eve of trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 488¿(“Where the trial date is set, the jury is about to be impaneled, counsel, the parties, the trial court, and the witnesses have blocked the time, and the only way to avoid prejudice to the opposing party is to continue the trial date to allow further discovery, refusal of leave to amend cannot be an abuse of discretion”).)  Here, we are not at the eve of trial.  Trial is set for January 20, 2026.  This is not a case where amendment would result in a delay of trial.  Further, discovery is currently open.  Given that the added claims are based on the same set of facts as the existing claims, the Court is confident discovery can be completed within the current discovery deadline.  Moreover, Defendants have not argued prejudice. Instead, Defendants argue that the added claims are defective.  But these arguments are not a basis to deny leave to amend.  Rather, the preferable practice is to permit the amendment, and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.  (California Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a third amended complaint.  The Court OVERRULES as moot Defendant’s demurrer and DENIES as moot Defendant’s motion to strike the second amended complaint.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: September 26, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 