  Case Number:  22BBCV00202    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 6,
2024

MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF PROCESS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00202

 



MP:  


The Detox Stop LLC (Cross-Defendant) 




RP:  


Diana Dolmayan
  and Ascentia Beauty Spa (Defendants/Cross-Complainants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Synan Johnson
(Plaintiff), in pro per, brings this action against Diana Dolmayan (Dolamayan)
and Ascentia Beauty Spa (Ascentia) seeking economic,
non-economic, special past and future damages, general past and future damages,
exemplary or punitive damages, and cost of suit. Plaintiff and Dolamayan were
partners in a business venture known as DS Medi Spa in 2021, however their
relationship soured, and the business ceased to exist soon after. Plaintiff
alleges, among other things, that Defendant conspired to offer medical services
without the proper licensing, interfered with Plaintiff’s business, and
generally tarnished Plaintiff’s reputation. 
 
Settlement was
reached in a separate unlawful detainer matter which dismissed the Detox Stop
LLC (the Detox Stop), a business owned by Plaintiff, from this action. However,
the claims of Plaintiff and DS Medi Spa remain.
 
Before the Court is a
motion brought by the Detox Stop to quash service of summons of the
Cross-Complaint brought by Dolamayan and Ascentia. Dolamayan and Ascentia
oppose the motion, while the Detox Stop has filed no reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Service
of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is
fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant.”  (AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21¿Cal.App.5th 189, 202 [internal quotations
marks and citation omitted].)  “To establish personal jurisdiction,
compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is
essential.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358,
371.)  Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not dispense with
statutory requirements for service of summons.  (Kappel v. Bartlett
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.) However, as long as the defendant
receives actual notice of the lawsuit, substantial compliance with the Code
provisions governing service of summons will generally be held sufficient. (Summers
v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 410-411 (“It is well settled that
strict compliance with statutes governing service of process is not required.
Rather, in deciding whether service was valid, the statutory provisions
regarding service of process should be liberally construed to effectuate
service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if actual notice has been
received by the defendant.").)
 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her” that results from lack of proper service.  (C.C.P. §
418.10(a)(1).  A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to
file a responsive pleading.  (C.C.P. § 412.20(a)(3).)  
 
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Background
 
The
proof of service reflects that on May 22, 2024, personal service was rendered
upon Detox Stop’s registered agent, Johnson, at 12278 Media Panorama, Santa
Ana, CA 92705. The time of service was 10:54 a.m. On May 24, 2024, this proof
of service was filed with the Court. 
 
On
June 10, 2024, Johnson appears to have filed a declaration regarding the proof
of service. This declaration, dated May 29, 2024, predates the Detox Stop’s
motion to quash by nearly a month. An identical declaration, this time dated
July 4, 2024, is attached to the Detox Stop’s motion. (See Mot. Exh. 1.) In
this declaration, Johnson states that she could not have been served because
she was at her place of employment at the time service purportedly occurred.
(Johnson Decl. ¶ 10.) Johnson also attached the declaration of Rachel
Bakker, her coworker, to corroborate that she was at work at the time of
service. Bakker states that she is a co-worker of Johnson and that on May 22,
2024, Johnson was at work. (Bakker Decl. ¶ 4.) The only identifying
information about Johnnson’s workplace is that it is “located in Los Angeles,
California.” (Bakker Decl. 6.) 
 
Discussion
 
“Evidence
Code section 647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of
service establishes a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of
the facts stated in the declaration.” (American Express Centurion Bank v.
Zara (2011) 199¿Cal.App.4th 383, 390 [internal citation omitted]; Evid.
Code § 647.) 
 
Here, the Court finds
that Detox Stop has adequately rebutted the presumption of validity created by
the process server. Despite their scant details, the declarations of Johnson
and Bakker are sufficient to demonstrate that Johnson could not have been
personally served as attested to in the proof of service. 
 
Regardless, the Court
finds that Ascentia has demonstrated substantial compliance resulting in the Detox
Stop’s actual notice such that the motion to quash should be denied. “It is
axiomatic that strict compliance with the code's provisions for service of
process is not required. (Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc., 223 Cal.
App. 4th 1434, 1443.) “[I]n deciding whether service was valid, the statutory
provisions regarding service of process should be liberally construed to
effectuate service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if actual notice
has been received by the defendant.” (Gibble v. Car-Lene Research, Inc.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 313.) In essence, substantial compliance with the
code’s requirements for service of process is sufficient. (Id.)  
 
Here,
the Detox Stop’s motion is entirely silent as to how they received notice of
the action such that they could timely file this motion to quash. The Court
notes that just seven days after the purported service, Johnson filed her
declaration stating that the Detox Stop was not served. While Johnson may not
have been personally handed the documents, the fact that she made and signed a
declaration less than a week after purported service is strongly indicative
that the Detox Stop received actual notice of the action. Regardless of the
factual dispute between the parties as to personal service, the fact remains
that the attempt at service was clearly enough to provide actual notice to the Detox
Stop. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash service of summons is DENIED. 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The Detox Stop LLC’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons came on regularly
for hearing on September 6, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS DENIED.

 
THE DETOX STOP SHALL FILE A RESPONSIVE PLEADING
WITHIN 30 DAYS.   
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, ASCENTIA TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: September
6, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 