 Case Number:  23BBCV00117    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 6,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00117

 
MP:  
Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants) / Jonathan Lee (Plaintiff)
RP:  
 Jonathan Lee (Plaintiff) / Zane
and Gina Cazares (Defendants)
*Each party has filed a motion to
compel against the other parties.
 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jonathan Lee
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges he was injured by virtue of Defendants’ negligent operation
of a motor vehicle. 
 
Before the Court are
two motions to compel further responses to discovery demands. These motions are
as follows: 
 
·        
Defendant moves to
compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Special Interrogatories
(SPROG) Set Two Nos. 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, and 56. Plaintiff
opposes; Defendants have filed no reply as of September 4, 2024. 
 
·        
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendants’ further responses to
his Request for Production (RFPD) Set Four Nos. 33-62. Defendants oppose and
Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
SPROG 
 
Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to SPROG Set Two Nos. 34, 36, 38,
40, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, and 56. Each of these SPROG requests medical
information from Plaintiff relating to any medical provider he has utilized
over the last 10 years. (See Berdan Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff responded to each
of these SPROG by objecting that they are (1) burdensome, oppressive, and
overbroad, (2) seek improper medical records/medical history, (3) are
irrelevant, and (4) are repetitive.
 
Plaintiff
argues, and the Court agrees, that Defendants’ separate statement is not
compliance with C.R.C. Rule 3.1345(c)(2). This rule requires a moving party to
include the text of each response to a disputed discovery demand in the
separate statement. Here, Defendants have interposed language from Plaintiff’s
responses to meet and confer efforts rather than Plaintiff’ actual responses to
the SPROG. Regardless, the Court finds denial on this ground would only result
in the delay of an actual resolution of the underlying discovery dispute.  The Court believes it can resolve this issue
without significant use of judicial resources, but Defendant is admonished to
comply with the Rules of Court regarding these matters in the future.
 
Of
primary importance to this motion is Plaintiff’s contention that Defendants
have already propounded interrogatories seeking this same information in their SPROG
Set One Nos. 9 &10. Plaintiff argues that Defendants are impermissibly
seeking to “restart the clock” on their medical discovery despite not having
moved to compel further responses regarding SPROG Set One. In order to examine
this claim, the Court finds a brief summary of the discovery efforts
necessary.  
 
On
May 24, 2023, Defendants propounded their SPROG Set One on Plaintiff. (See
Berdan Decl. Exh. A.) On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff served his verified responses
to SPROG Set One, consisting primarily of objections. (See Aziev Decl. Exh. 1.)
After various meet and confer efforts, on May 31, 2024, Plaintiff served his
supplemental responses to Defendants’ SPROG Set One No. 9. (See Aziev Decl.
Exh. 7.) 
 
Defendants’
SPROG Set One No. 9 requested the following information: 
 
Please IDENTIFY all
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS with whom YOU treated from the ten (10) years preceding
the INCIDENT alleged in the Complaint on file herein until the present.
 
Plaintiff’s
supplemental response to this SPROG indicated he had treated with “Orthopedic
Surgery Specialists” in Burbank and “Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center” in
Burbank. (See Aziev Decl. Exh. 7 p. 10.) 
 
Defendants’
SPROG Set Two also requests that Plaintiff provide the information for any
medical provider he has treated with 10 year prior to the incident but parcels
the request out into specialized medical proffessionals (i.e. Urgent Care
Facility, Chiropractor, Neurologist, Orthopedist, ENT, Pain Management
Physician, and Healthcare Provider). (See Berdan Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff
responded with objection only responses. In the meet and confer efforts,
counsel for Plaintiff reiterated that he would not provide further responses to
SPROG Set Two, but that he would provide supplemental responses to SPROG Set
One with the requested information. (Berdan Decl. Ex. D.) 
 
In
arguing that Defendants SPROG Set Two are improper, Plaintiff relies primarily
on Prof'l Career Colleges, Magna Inst. v. Superior Court (1989) 207
Cal.App.3d 490, 493. In that case the plaintiff propounded a set of
interrogatories on the defendant, which included an interrogatory seeking the
addresses of students who enrolled in a program during a specified period. (Id.
at 492.) The defendant objected and the plaintiff made no motion to compel a
further response. (Id.) A month and a half later, the plaintiff
propounded a second set of interrogatories on the defendant with mostly new
interrogatories, but also included an interrogatory that sought essentially the
same information as the interrogatory in the first set (i.e., addresses of
students who enrolled in a program during a specific period). (Id.)
After the defendant objected on the ground the new interrogatory was the same
as the old interrogatory in the first set, “the plaintiff finally filed and
served a motion to compel ....” (Id.) 
 
On
appeal, the court held the motion to compel further response to the new
interrogatory was time-barred. (Id. at p. 494.) The court reasoned “it
would be an absurdity to say that a party who fails to meet the time limits of
section 2030 may avoid the consequences of his delay and lack of diligence by
propounding the same question again.” (Id.)
 
Here,
the Court finds the situation analogous to that in Career Colleges.
Defendants issuance of SPROG Set Two, after failing to compel further responses
SPROG Set One, constitutes an attempt to reset the clock on discovery. The
relevant questions in SPROG Set Two seek identical information in substance,
even if Defendants have slightly altered their form. 
 
In
their moving papers, Defendants argue that during Plaintiff’s December 5, 2023
deposition, it became clear that he had not provided a complete list of medical
providers. (See Mot. p. 3.). Defendants do not attach any excerpt from the
deposition to their motion, nor does this claim appear in their counsel’s
declaration in support. Defendants have provided no explanation as to why they
did not move to compel further responses after conducting Plaintiff’s
deposition. Nor do Defendants provide an explanation as to why Plaintiff’s
supplemental responses were insufficient. 
 
Given
the duplicative nature of SPROG Set Two Nos. 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48,
50, 52, 54, and 56 and given that Plaintiff has provided supplemental responses
to SPROG Set One No. 9, the Court finds no good cause exists to compel further
responses. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is DENIED. 
 
RFPD 
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to his RFPD Set Four Nos. 33-62. On April 12,
2024, Plaintiff served RFPD Set Four on Defendants. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 1.) On
May 10, 2024, Defendants counsel requested a two-week extension to reply, which
was granted. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 2.) On May 23, 2024, a second two-week extension
was requested. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff granted a one-week extension,
making responses due June 4, 2024. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 3.) On June 4, 2024,
Defendants served their responses consisting of objections only. (Aziev Decl.
Exh. 3.) Plaintiff also states that no responsive documents have been provided.
(Aziev Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause
for further production. Plaintiff’s RFPD Set Four Nos. 33-62 pertain to any
photographic/video evidence depicting Plaintiff on the date of the incident.
These requests also ask Defendants to provide information about the equipment
used to capture the photos/video and produce any such equipment for inspection.

 
Defendants
do not dispute that the photos/videos are relevant, instead they argue that the
make/model and physical inspection of the cameras which captured them are
irrelevant. (Oppo. p. 5.) The Court agrees that Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate good cause for an inspection of any camera (RFPD Nos. 36, 40, 44,
and 48), but the make and model may is discoverable as different cameras have
different editing abilities and different lens that may affect the quality of a
photograph. Plaintiff’s supplied reasoning for further production is to
“establish foundation and authentication of such records, as well as to prevent
improper video editing that will be shown to the jury at trial.” (Mot. p. 5.)
While the Court agrees that make and model of the camera and any metadata from
the photos/videos and the make/model of the camera used to take them is
important to authentication, the Court does not see how an inspection of the
actual camera is required. If Plaintiff’s concern is that the photos/videos
have been doctored in any way, such concerns would be assuaged by the metadata
produced by the camera in making the video. Plaintiff presents no argument
specifically to good cause for physical inspection of any cameras. 
 
The
same can be said about RFPD No. 53, which requests documents reflecting the
amount paid to independent investigators. (See Aziev Decl. Exh. 1, p. 4.) The
Court fails to see the relevance of the amount of money Defendants may have
paid to any private investigator who is not also a witness. Plaintiff has not
established how such information has any connection to the authenticity of the
documents. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED as to RFPD Nos. 36 ,40, 44, 48, and 53.
 
Having
determined that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for the remaining RFPD,
the burden shifts to Defendants to justify their objections thereto. Defendants’
opposing papers only brief their objections on grounds of (1) work product
privilege, (2) relevance, and (3) ambiguity. As discussed above, the Court
finds the vast majority of the requests are relevant. As such, the Court shall
examine the arguments speaking to privilege and ambiguity. 
 
Though
it is not entirely clear, it appears that Defendants object to the production
of photos/videos on grounds that they were generated in an independent
investigation and therefore qualify as attorney work product. Defendants argue
that the photo/videos were obtained by an independent investigator hired at the
direction of Defendants’ counsel. (Mot. p. 5.) Plaintiff argues that holding
such documents to be privileged is consistent with Suezaki v. Superior Court
of Santa Clara County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166. 
 
In Suezaki,
plaintiffs sued defendants for personal injuries. Defendants’ attorneys hired
an investigator to take motion pictures of one of the plaintiffs without his
knowledge. (Id. at 170.) During discovery, plaintiffs compelled
defendants to disclose the existence of the films, the fact the films had been
taken by an independent investigator, and that the investigator delivered the
films to defendants' attorney. (Id.) Plaintiffs moved for production and
inspection of the films. (Id.) Defendants objected and argued the films
had been communicated by defendants' investigator to defendants' attorney for
confidential use in preparation of the defense. (Id.) The California
Supreme Court found the found the film was not within the attorney-client
privilege because it was not a communication from the defendant client to his
attorney. (Id. at 177 [“The films are not a graphic representation of
the defendants, their activities, their mental impressions, anything within
their knowledge, or of anything owned by them. The films are representations of
the plaintiff, not of the defendants. If they can be said to be a
‘communication’ in any sense of the word…”].) The Court further found that the
films were not subject to the work-product privilege either, stating that “simply
because the subject matter sought to be discovered is the ‘work product’ of the
attorney it is not privileged.” (Id. at 177.) 
 
The
Court disagrees with Defendant’s position the requested photos/videos are
protected as work product under Suezaki. The California Supreme Court opined
that these types of communications are specifically not privileged as attorney
work product, absent a greater showing. (See People v. Gillard (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 136 [holding that photographs were privileged where photographs
were taken specifically to convey confidential information from an investigator
to an attorney.].) Here, Defendants have made no showing to demonstrate that
the photos/videos are anything other than a depiction of Plaintiff. As such,
Defendants’ objection on this ground is without merit. 
 
As
concerns the ambiguity objection, Defendants argue that the requests “seek any
document, created for any purpose, by any person or entity, from any time since
the make and model of the camera was invented.” (Opp. p. 6.) The Court finds
this argument unpersuasive. Each of the requests is reasonably restricted to
photos/videos of Plaintiff from the date of the incident and information about
the equipment used to create them. The Court concludes that Plaintiff was
sufficiently particular in seeking this information. 
 
In
short, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause of further
production as to RFPD Nos. 33-35, 37-39, 41-43, 45-47, 49-52, and 54-62. The
Court also finds that Defendants have failed to justify their objections
thereto. Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses is granted as to
these requests. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2031.310(h).) 
 
Here, the Court did not find Defendants’
argument persuasive in bringing/opposing the motions to compel further
responses. Regardless, the Court does not find that Defendants acted without
substantial justification. The Court notes that there are three more motions to
compel further responses on its calendar in the coming weeks for this case. The
Court encourages the parties to to meet and confer to resolve any discovery
disputes informally, such that further consideration of sanctions is not
required. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jonathan Lee and Zane
& Gina Cazares’ Motions to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for hearing on September 6, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:  
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPROG SET TWO IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFPD SET FOUR IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN
PART. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS
GRANTED AS TO RFPD NOS. 33-35, 37-39, 41-43, 45-47, 49-52, AND 54-62. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION IS DENIED AS TO RFPD NOS. 36 ,40, 44, 48, AND 53.
 
FURTHER
PRODUCTION DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.   SANCTIONS REQUEST IS DENIED.
 
UNLESS ALL
PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: September
6, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 