 Case Number:  24BBCV00233    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 6,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00233

 



MP:  


Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Defendant) 




RP:  


Alex Avi (Plaintiff) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Alex Avi (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges he was injured while as a passenger in a bus
operated by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s employee negligently
operated the bus such that Plaintiff was thrown to the ground and sustained
significant injury. 
 
Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff’s initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff has filed no opposition to these
motions. Defendant also requests $500 in sanctions be granted in connection
with each of the three motions. 
 
Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion.
Plaintiff’s counsel appears to have filed two declarations in connection with
this motion but have filed no actual opposition. These declarations inform the Court
that Plaintiff’s counsel has lost all contact with Plaintiff and that
Plaintiff’s counsel intends to move to be relieved. A motion to be relieved as
counsel is scheduled to be heard on November 1, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel asks
that present motions be continued until after that hearing. (Harirchi Decl.
¶ 4.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On May 7, 2024, Defendant’s counsel served Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD on counsel for Plaintiff via
email. (Wainfeld Decl. Exh. A.) On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested
a two-week extension, which was granted. (Wainfeld Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. B.) On
July 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested another extension, explaining that
they were unable to get a hold of their client. (Wainfeld Decl. Exh. C.)
Defendant’s counsel advised this request would not be granted. (Id.)
Defendant remains without responses to any discovery as of filing these
motions. (Wainfeld Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
The Court
denies the Plaintiff’s request to continue the motions until after Plaintiff’s
counsel request to be relieved as counsel is heard.  To do so would be unfair to the Defendant who
did not initiate this lawsuit.  Based on
the foregoing, Defendants’ unopposed motions to compel initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may impose
a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Defendant has drafted and filed three motions while Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,680.
These sanctions are assessed as against Plaintiff only, given the
representations of Plaintiff’s counsel that he has been entirely unresponsive. This
amount reflects 6 hours of attorney work at a rate of $250 per hour plus filing
fees of $60 for three motions. (Wainfeld Decl. ¶ 5.) Given the Court’s
experience with motions of this type, this amount of sanctions appears
appropriate to compensate Defendant’s efforts in compelling responses. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery came on regularly for hearing on September 6, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.  
 
FURTHER RESPONSES DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.   
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,680
AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF.
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
September 6, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 