 Case Number:  23BBCV02356    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 6,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02356




 
MP:  


 
Complete Gym Solutions,
  LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Lance Zavela & Ryde
  Enterprises, LLC (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Complete
Gym Solutions, LLC (Plaintiff) brings this action against Lance Zavela (Zavela)
and Ryde Enterprises, LLC (Ryde) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleges Zavela,
its former National Sales Manager, misappropriated trade secrets. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges Zavela utilized Plaintiff’s confidential customer database to
convince Plaintiff’s customers to rent equipment from Zavela’s new employer,
Ryde. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion by Plaintiff for Evidentiary and Issue Sanctions.
Plaintiff seeks an order of the Court establishing the following facts: 
 
(i)                
Defendant Zavela
took CGS’s trade secrets, confidential and propriety client information (“CGS
Confidential Information”) in the form of client contact information and
contract/quote data; 
 
(ii)              
Defendants inputted
CGS Confidential Information into Defendants’ database; 
 
(iii)            
Defendants used
CGS Confidential Information in an effort to secure CGS’s clients for
themselves; 
 
(iv)             
Defendants did in
fact solicit CGS’s clients knowing that they were CGS’s clients; 
 
(v)               
Defendants used
CGS Confidential Information in their efforts to solicit CGS’s clients; 
 
(vi)             
Defendants
secured contracts with some of CGS’s clients by using CGS Confidential
Information; 
 
(vii)           
Defendants were
in a position to and attempted to secure more contracts with CGS’s clients as a
result of the use of CGS Confidential Information; and 
 
(viii)         
 Defendants would have secured additional
clients of CGS based on their use of CGS Confidential Information but for the
Court’s entry of a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) and a preliminary
injunction. 
 
Plaintiff also
requests that Defendants be barred from presenting any evidence that they did
not use CGS’s Confidential Information. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is based on what they perceive as Defendants failure to comply with this
Court’s April 22, 2024 order to produce further documents and pay monetary
sanctions. It is clear from the moving papers that Defendants at least
partially complied with the Court’s order; however, Plaintiff maintains that
Defendants are not in full compliance. Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1345(a)(7) requires a motion for evidentiary sanctions to be accompanied
by a separate statement in accordance with Rule 3.1345(c). A separate statement
is not required when: (1) no response has been provided to the request for
discovery; or (2) a court has allowed the moving party to submit—in place of a
separate statement—a concise outline of the discovery request and each response
in dispute. (CRC Rule 3.1345(b).) 
 
Plaintiff’s motion herein
fails to comply with Rule 3.1345(a)(7) because no such statement has been
submitted. The Court did grant permission to substitute a concise outline of
the disputed discovery nor was any provided. 
In addition, Plaintiff’s motion is not based on Defendants’ failure to
respond to discovery which does not require a statement per Rule 3.1345(a)(7).  The Court reviewed the motion and
declarations and did not readily see a concise outline of the disputed
discovery relative to the Court’s order.  
The Court is unable to determine which matters the Plaintiff believes
were partially complied with and which remain deficient.  The Court can make a determination that Defendants
be prohibited from introducing any evidence that they did not use CGS’
Confidential Information that was not previously turned over in the Court’s
discovery order.  However, the Plaintiff
seeks a broader request that the Court would require a CRC compliant motion to
properly analyze the request.
 
As the motion is
procedurally defective, the Court orders the hearing on this matter continued
to October 4, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. Plaintiff is to file a separate statement with
the Court no later than September 19, 2024. Should Defendants wish to provide a
separate statement in opposition, they must do so no later than September 26,
2024. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Complete
Gym Solutions, LLC’s Motion from Issue
& Evidentiary Sanctions came on regularly for
hearing on September 6, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, the court, being fully advised in the premises,
did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION FOR ISSUE/EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS IS CONTINUED TO OCTOBER 4, 2024 AT 9:00
A.M. 
 
PLAINTIFF
IS ORDERED TO FILE A SEPARATE STATEMENT WITH THE COURT NO LATER THAN SEPTEMBER
19, 2024. 
 
SHOULD DEFENDANTS
WISH TO PROVIDE A SEPARATE STATEMENT IN OPPOSITION, THEY MUST DO SO NO LATER
THAN SEPTEMBER 26, 2024.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
DATE: September
6, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 