 Case Number:  23BBCV00904    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 6,
2024 

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case #23BBCV00904

 



MP:  


Alfred William (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Hakob Mehrabyan & 77 Space Inc.
  (Defendants) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Alfred William (Plaintiff) brings this action
against Hakob Mehrabyan & 77 Space Inc. (Defendants). Plaintiff alleges Defendants hired him as an independent
contractor and provided him with a truck and trailer to transport goods. Plaintiff
alleges the truck and trailer were negligently maintained by Defendants such
that the trailer caught fire and caused him severe injury. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves for leave to amend his Complaint to: 
 
1)     
Add his
wife, Lians Gasparian (Gasparian), as a Plaintiff, asserting a
new cause of action for Loss of Consortium. 
 
2)     
Add the dealer Intermountain Trailer (Intermountain) as a
Defendant, asserting causes of action for Negligence and Products liability
against. 
 
Defendants
oppose the motion only insofar as it relates to the addition of Gasparian and
the Loss of Consortium cause of action. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)
The motion should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request
was not made earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
A party
may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before an
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed. C.C.P. § 472(a). After the
period for amending a pleading without leave of court has passed, the pleading
may be amended under C.C.P. § 473(a) and § 576.
 
The trial
court should permit a plaintiff to amend a pleading when doing so is in
furtherance of justice and in keeping with the fundamental policy that cases
should be decided on their merits.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 956-966.) While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment has
caused unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if it
denies any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the opposing
side.¿ (See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Loss of Consortium 
 
Defendants
oppose amendment on grounds that Plaintiff seeks to add a cause of action
against them which is barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
Plaintiff’s proposed amendment seeks to name his wife, Gasparian, as a
Plaintiff asserting a cause of action for loss of consortium. (See Exh. 1, p.
14.) 
 
Loss
of consortium claims are governed by a two-year statute of limitations. (C.C.P.
§ 335.1.) The statute of limitations begins to run when the injury resulting in
the loss of consortium occurs. (Priola v. Paulino (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d
380, 390-91.) Here, Plaintiff’s claims stem from an injury which occurred on
July 24, 2022. (Compl. p. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that more than two years have passed since the underlying
incident in this case. Instead, Plaintiff argues that the loss of consortium
claim could not have been brought earlier because it was not yet discovered.
Plaintiff argues that because “the complete loss of interest in and enjoyment
of sexual relations by William and following necessity of in vitro
fertilization by his wife was not discovered until late 2023/early 2024[,] the
claim is still timely.” (Reply, p. 2.) 
 
The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive. First, the argument is undermined by
Plaintiff’s own declaration in support of the motion. Plaintiff submits a
declaration from his counsel which states that this cause of action was not
brought earlier “based on the embarrassment it caused the Plaintiffs”. (Gruzman
Decl. ¶ 6.) That Gasparian was too embarrassed to bring a loss of
consortium claim supports that she was aware of the injury forming the basis of
a loss of consortium claim for quite some time. 
 
Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony also reveals that his counsel was aware of the claim
within the statute of limitations. When Plaintiff was asked about a loss of
consortium claim in his June 27, 2024 deposition, his counsel responded that
they would be amending to assert such a claim. (Wallick Decl. Exh. A, p. 86.)
When questioned further on the lack of intimacy, Plaintiff responded that he
and his wife have had no sexual life “since the accident”. (Wallick Decl. Exh.
A, p. 89.) 
 
In
short, the Court is unpersuaded that new cause of action is permitted by
claiming delayed discovery thereby circumventing the statute of limitations. 
 
Further,
the Court finds no other meritorious basis by which the statute of limitations for
a loss of consortium action should be tolled or disregarded. There is no
tolling during the pendency of the spouse’s personal injury action. (Meighan
v. Shore (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1025, 1034, citing Priola v. Paulino (1977)
72 Cal.App.3d 380, 383 [“It has been held that an action must be filed within
one year from the date of injury which gives rise to the loss of
consortium.”].) Additionally, Courts have found that a loss
of consortium claim does not relate back to the injured spouse’s
personal injury action. (See Bartalo v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.
App. 3d 526, 534.) This is because a claim for loss of consortium seeks to
enforce a right independent from that of the underlying personal injury claims
such that it cannot be said to relate back to the original claim. (Id.) As
case law makes clear, Plaintiff cannot argue that Gasparian’s claim relates
back to his own for purposes of avoiding the statute of limitations. 
 
The
Court finds the authority relied upon by Plaintiff to be distinguishable from
the instant case. Plaintiff relies upon Vanhooser v. Superior Court and Leonard v. John Crane, Inc. In Vanhooser,
the trial court granted summary judgment on a wife’s claim for loss of
consortium. (Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th
921, 925.) The defendants in Vanhooser argued that the wife could not
show the first element of a loss of consortium claim, that she was married to
Plaintiff at the time he was exposed to the asbestos causing his underlying
injury of mesothelioma. (Id. at 926.) The Court of Appeal reversed,
finding that in the context of latent disease, injury supporting a loss of
consortium claim occurs at the time of diagnosis. (Id. at 927.) Thus, to
avoid summary judgment, all the wife needed to show was that she was married to
her injured spouse at the time his mesothelioma was diagnosed. (Id.) 
 
Johnson also
concerned a case of latent mesothelioma. The spouse in Johnson appealed
a trial court order sustaining a demurrer to her cause of action for loss of
consortium. (Leonard v. John Crane, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th
1274.) The Court of Appeal reversed holding “where an injury to a spouse that
in turn causes injury to the plaintiff's right to consortium in the marital
relationship is not discovered or discoverable until after the couple's
marriage, and the underlying cause of action thus accrues during the marriage,
the plaintiff has a valid claim for loss of consortium even though the
negligent conduct may have predated the marriage.” (Leonard v. John Crane,
Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1290.) 
 
Here,
Gasparian’s claims do not derive from Plaintiff suffering a latent disease. The
injuries which caused Plaintiff to lose interest in intimacy are, by his own
testimony, injuries which have been known to himself and Gasparian since the
July 2022 incident. Plaintiff cites to no authority for his claim that the
facts underlying the cause of action for loss of consortium were not
“discovered” until it reached a certain point of seriousness in the Plaintiff’s
own eyes. Unlike the plaintiffs in Vanhooser and Leonard, the
effects of the incident on Plaintiff are alleged to have been immediately
apparent. As such, there is no reason to apply the “latent disease” rationale
to this case. 
 
In
short, Defendant has sufficiently demonstrated that allowing amendment to add
the cause of action for loss of consortium would not serve the interests of
justice. Allowing this amendment would necessitate Defendant bringing a
dispositive motion on the same statute of limitation grounds, which the Court
has already found to be meritorious. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for
leave to amend is DENIED as to the addition of Lians Gasparian and the cause of
action for Loss of Consortium. 
 
Intermountain 
 
Defendants do not oppose
the addition of Intermountain to the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff attaches the
proposed First Amended Complaint to his motion. (Gruzman Decl. Exh. 1.)
Plaintiff explains that Intermountain could not have been added previously
because Plaintiff was unaware of its identity as the dealer of the trailer.
(Gruzman Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff states that Defendants had previously
stated they could not locate purchase records for the trailer but finally
produced the relevant documents on June 19, 2024. (Gruzman Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
The Court finds the
requirements of California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) are
satisfied. Additionally, as the underlying facts are related to the original
Complaint, allowing Plaintiff to file the amended Complaint will increase the
likelihood of the case being resolved efficiently on the merits.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED as to the addition of Intermountain
Trailer as a Defendant and the addition of the Negligence and Products
Liability causes of action against them. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to sign
a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Alfred William’s Motion for Leave to Amend came on
regularly for hearing on September 6, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED IN PART
AND DENIED IN PART.  THE MOTION IS DENIED
AS TO THE ADDITION OF LIANS GASPARIAN AS A PLAINTIFF ASSERTING A CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR LOSS OF CONSORTIUM.  THE
MOTION IS GRANTED AS TO THE ADDITION OF INTERMOUNTAIN TRAILER AS A DEFENDANT
AND THE NEGLIEGENCE AND PRODUCTS LIABILITY CAUSES OF ACTION AGAINST THEM. 
 
PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE HIS AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITHIN 10 DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 6, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 