 Case Number:  24STCV09712    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JAYME CHEW, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CARVANA, LLC; BRIDGECREST
ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION;
DEVELOPERS SURETY AND INDEMNITY
COMPANY; and DOES 1 through 75,
inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.       
                        


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV09712
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
  ACTION PENDING COMPLETION OF ARBITRATION
 
Date: October 10, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Carvana, LLC (“Carvana”), Bridgecrest Acceptance
Corporation
(“Bridgecrest”) and Developers Surety and Indemnity Company (“Developers”)
(collectively,
“Defendants”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition has been
filed.  Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
 
BACKGROUND
             This case stems from a vehicle that Plaintiff
purchased from Carvana in 2022.  On April
17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint (“Complaint”) asserting the following
causes of action: (1) Violations of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act; (2)
Intentional Misrepresentation; (3) Concealment; (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; (6)
Violations of the Unfair Competition Law; and (7) Cause of Action under Vehicle
Code § 11711.
 
            On June 25, 2024, Defendants filed
the present Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action (the “Motion”),
seeking to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her claims in this matter and to stay
this action pending completion of arbitration. 
The Motion is unopposed.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  To further that policy,
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Similarly, “under the FAA, the strong federal
policy favoring arbitration agreements requires courts to resolve any doubts
concerning arbitrability in favor of arbitration.”  (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 153, 176 (internal quotations omitted).)  
 
In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial
courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists
between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  The opposing
party has the burden to establish any defense to enforcement.  (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner, T–Mobile here, bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing party,
plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)  
 
Procedurally, a petition to compel arbitration or
stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration,
or must have a copy of them attached. 
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1330.)  
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Here, Defendants have met the initial burden of
showing that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties.  Defendants submitted the declaration of Brittnee
Penson, Senior Manager, Customer Experience, Operational Development at Carvana,
who attested that on November 15, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Hyundai
Tucson (the “Vehicle”) from Carvana. 
(Declaration of Brittnee Penson in Support of the Motion [“Penson
Decl.”], ¶ 3.)  On said date, Plaintiff
signed, using DocuSign, both the Retail Purchase Agreement (the “Contract”) and
the arbitration agreement (“Arbitration Agreement”) that was entered into in
connection with the purchase of the Vehicle. 
(Id., ¶¶ 3-5; Exhs. A, B and C.) 
The Arbitration Agreement provided Plaintiff the right to opt out of the
arbitration agreement within thirty days by emailing a rejection notice to
Carvana, but Carvana has no record of receiving a rejection notice from
Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶ 6; Exh. A.)
 
The Arbitration Agreement, in pertinent part,
provides that “Claim[s] shall be resolved through binding and final arbitration
instead of through court proceedings…”  (Arbitration Agreement, § 2.) Arbitrable “Claims”
are defined broadly to include “any claims . . . disputes, or controversies
between [Plaintiff] and [Defendants] . . . relating to or arising from,” among
other things: (1) the “Vehicle,” including its “condition;” (2) Plaintiff’s
“purchase . . . of the Vehicle;” (3) “advertisements, promotions, or oral or
written statements regarding the Vehicle or the Contracts;” (4) the “Contracts,
and duties or relationships arising therefrom;” and (5) “any goods or services
incidental to the Contracts or the Vehicles, such as warranty service [or]
extended vehicle service.”  (Id.,
§ 1.2.) 
 
            In her Complaint,
Plaintiff asserts that at the time of sale, Carvana allegedly did not
accurately disclose the Vehicle’s prior use and current condition, and
allegedly did not make requested repairs to the Vehicle after it was sold to
Plaintiff.  (Compl., ¶¶ 16-20, 23-24.)  Thus, Plaintiff’s claims as alleged in the
Complaint fall squarely under the Arbitration Agreement.
 
Because Defendants established the existence of a
valid and binding arbitration agreement, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show
why the Arbitration Agreement should not be enforced.  Since the Motion is unopposed, it is
undisputed that Plaintiff affirmatively consented to the Arbitration Agreement and
that the Arbitration Agreement covers the claims asserted in the
Complaint.  Thus, there is no dispute
that the present action is subject to arbitration pursuant to the Arbitration
Agreement.
 
The Arbitration Agreement defines the parties to the
agreement as not only Carvana and Plaintiff, but also “Bridgecrest Credit
Company, LLC,” and any other “party providing products or services to the
Vehicle in connection with or incidental to the Contracts.” (Arbitration
Agreement, § 1.5.)  The Arbitration
Agreement thus also applies to Developers, whom Plaintiff alleges provided a
bond to Carvana that covers the Vehicle.  (Compl. ¶¶ 4, 101.)  Therefore, all of Plaintiff’s claims,
including those against Bridgecrest and Developers, are covered by the
Arbitration Agreement.  
 
RULING
            Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s claims are stayed pending
completion of arbitration.  The Court
sets a Status Conference for April 8, 2025, regarding the status of
arbitration.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 10th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



