 Case Number:  24NNCV04337    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING Calendar:      8 Date:                1/17/2025   Case No:          24 NNCV04337 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Armstrong v. The State of California, et al. DEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendants City of Glendale, Glendale City Attorney’s Office, Glendale Police Department and Ian Torley        Responding Party: Plaintiff Brian W. Armstrong    RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to complaint   Strike punitive damages CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Failure to Do Due Diligence 2) Failure of Obligation to Act 3) Failure to Protect Plaintiff 4) Failure to Protect Public 5) Failure to Communicate 6) NegligenceSUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Brian W. Armstrong alleges that in September of 2022 plaintiff was assaulted inside the Blue Moon Lounge in Glendale by a large group of adult males which caused substantial and ongoing physical and emotional damage to plaintiff.  The complaint alleges that from September 19 through 26, 2022 Detective Ian Torley of the Glendale Police Department was negligent and failed to live up to his obligation to perform a detailed and thorough investigation into the brutal assault, failing to produce a detailed and concise investigative report, and failing to file a report with the Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office (D.A.) in a timely manner, and to follow up to notify and explain his actions and the D.A.’s decision to plaintiff. The complaint alleges that the D.A.’s office rejected the assault case filed by Detective Torley within less than 24 hours, and that plaintiff was not notified of the decision until July of 2024, ten months after the decision was handed down. Plaintiff alleges that assuming that Detective Torley filed a detailed report, then defendant D.A. Office was negligent in failing to file criminal charges against the business and all named defendants in plaintiff’s civil case, and is also responsible for neglecting to notify plaintiff and his attorney in a timely manner about the decision it made.  It is also alleged that defendants the City of Glendale, County of Los Angeles, and State of California are responsible for failure and neglect to live up to their obligations to do due diligence to protect one of their citizens from a vicious assault and for failing to recommend prosecuting the assailants who committed this violent act within the City, County, and State limits.   On December 20, 2024, the court heard a demurrer to the complaint brought by defendant State of California which was sustained with ten days leave to amend.  Counsel Vollner was ordered to give notice.  The file shows that Notice of ruling was served, attaching the court’s tentative ruling, on December 31, 2024 by electronic mail.   Allowing two additional days to the ten day deadline for service by electronic transmission, plaintiff’s amended pleading was due to be filed and served no later than January 13, 2025.  ANALYSIS:DemurrerDefendants City of Glendale, Glendale City Attorney’s Office, Glendale Police Department and Ian Torley demur to the entire complaint on the ground that because the City is a public entity, any liability must be based on statute.Government Code § 815 provides:“Except as otherwise provided by statute:(a) A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.” The pleading here does set forth Government Code section 815.2 (a), under which a public entity may be liable for an act or omission of an employee “if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee…”  and section 815.6, under which liability may arise “Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment…”  [Complaint, pp. 11, 12].   However, it is not clear what conduct of a City employee would have given rise to what cause of action, or what mandatory duty imposed by enactment is relied upon.  The demurrer is sustained on this ground.  Defendants also argue that the alleged failure of a police officer to properly conduct an investigation cannot serve as a basis for liability.  Defendants rely on Government Code section 818.2, which provides, in pertinent part: “A public entity is not liable for an injury caused… by failing to enforce any law.” Defendants also cite to Government Code section 821.6, which provides: “A public employee is not liable for injury caused by his instituting or prosecuting any judicial or administrative proceeding within the scope of his employment, even if he acts maliciously or without probable cause.”    Under Government Code section 815.2(b):“(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of an employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.” This immunity is held to apply to police officers investigating a crime.   Amylou R. v. County of Riverside  (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1209-1210.  Defendants also rely on Government Code section 845, which provides, in pertinent part: “Neither a public entity nor a public employee is liable for failure to establish a police department or otherwise to provide police protection service or, if police protection service is provided, for failure to provide sufficient police protection service. Defendants argue that given the authorities cited, plaintiff cannot maintain an action against Detective Torley, the City, the City Attorney’s Office or any other person or entity based on allegations that the post-incident police investigation was not properly done, or not done with due diligence.  [Complaint, paras. 1-3].   The opposition does not directly address these arguments, but argues that the causes of action allege sufficiently detailed facts to support plaintiff’s claims.  There are no facts identified within the pleading, or which could be alleged, to take the claims outside the scope of the statutory immunity argued in the demurrer.  The demurrer accordingly is sustained on this ground.    Defendants argue that the demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend.  However, this is the original complaint in this matter, and it is held that in the case of an original complaint, plaintiff need not even request leave to amend: “unless [an original complaint] shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment, denial of leave to amend constituted an abuse of discretion, irrespective of whether leave to amend is requested or not.”  King v. Mortimer (1948) 83 Cal.App.2d 153, 158, citations omitted.  The court of appeal in King cited to CCP section 472c, which provides, in pertinent part, “the question as to whether or not such court abused its discretion in making such an order is open on appeal even though no request to amend such pleading was made.”    This complaint is plaintiff’s first attempt to state a claim, and it is not yet clear from the face of the complaint that it cannot be amended to state a cause of action against the moving defendants.  The demurrer will be sustained with leave to amend. Motion to Strike The motion to strike first seeks to strike the entire pleading on the grounds set forth in the demurrer.  The motion on these grounds will be deemed moot in light of the sustaining of the demurrer with leave to amend.  The motion also seeks to strike the claims for punitive damages as asserted against the City of Glendale and Ian Torley, arguing that such damages are not recoverable pursuant to Government Code section 818, which provides: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a public entity is not liable for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil Code or other damages imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” The motion as brought by the City accordingly is granted.  The motion as brought by defendant Ian Torley, who is not a public entity, will be denied.   See Runyan v. Superior Court (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 878, 880-881 (“A proper interpretation of section 818 is that it prohibits a claim of punitive damages against a public entity, but not against individual public employees.”).).  With respect to the City, plaintiff in the opposition does not directly address this argument, and has failed to cite to legal authority or otherwise met plaintiff’s burden to show how the pleading could be appropriately amended to avoid the immunity provided to the City under Government Code section 818.  The motion to strike is granted without leave to amend on this ground.  RULING:Defendants’ Amended Demurrer to complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND for the reasons stated in the moving papers. Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege a recognized duty on the part of moving defendants City of Glendale, Glendale City Attorney’s Office, Glendale Police Department or Ian Torley        or a statutory basis for the duty allegedly breached by the public entity and public employee defendants.  The claims alleged also appear to be subject to several immunity statutes, including Government Code sections 812.2, and 845. Ten days leave to amend, if possible.  Defendant City of Glendale’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint is MOOT with respect to the arguments made which duplicate those made in the demurrer, based on the sustaining of the demurrer with leave to amend.  Motion to strike prayer for punitive damages against defendant City of Glendale is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND pursuant to Government Code section 818. (“Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a public entity is not liable for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil Code or other damages imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”). Motion to Strike punitive damages against defendant Ian Torley is DENIED.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full compliance with CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5 before any further demurrer or motion to strike may be filed.  Moving defendants are ordered that if any further demurrer and motion to strike are filed, such motions must be reserved and filed under separate reservation numbers.    DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 