 Case Number:  24NNCV00309    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING Calendar: 4 Date: 1/17/2025Case No: 24 NNCV00309 Case Name: Umpqua Bank v. Dental Alloys USA, Inc., et al. MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENTMP: Defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Ilya Gorbonos    RP: Plaintiff Umpqua Bank   RELIEF REQUESTED:Order vacating and setting aside default and default judgment entered against defendants FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Umpqua Bank alleges that in May of 2019, plaintiff provided a business expressline of credit to defendant Dental Alloys USA, Inc. in the amount of $50,000, which credit line is evidenced by a small business loan application and a promissory note.  Pursuant to the credit line documents, defendant agreed to repay the outstanding principal balance of the loan, along with annual fees, late charges, and interest in the event of default.  Defendant has breached its obligations by failing to pay all sums which became due, with the last payment being made in March of 2023, and despite demand has failed to cure the default or pay the monies due and owing.  The complaint alleges that to induce plaintiff to enter into the application and note, defendant Ilya Gorbonos, an individual, executed in writing a Commercial Guaranty, unconditionally guaranteeing to pay all indebtedness of Dental Alloys to plaintiff, which guarantee Gorbonos has failed to honor.   On June 20, 2024, plaintiff filed a Request for Entry of Default against defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Gorbonos, which was entered by the court as requested the same date. On July 9, 2024, Judgment by the Court by Default was entered, signed and filed, based on plaintiff’s written declaration.  Judgment was entered for plaintiff Umpqua Bank and against defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Ilya Gorbonos, in the total sum of $63,416.96.  On July 29, 2024, a Writ of Execution (Money Judgment) was executed by the clerk of the court, for the total amount due of $63,456.96, plus daily interest from the date of the writ at the legal rate in the daily sum of $17.37.  On November 15, 2024, the court heard a motion for turnover order brought by plaintiff /judgment creditor requesting that the court issue a turnover order directing defendant/judgment debtor Gorbonos to transfer to the Sheriff possession of Judgment Debtor Gorbonos’ stock certificates, voting trust certificates, and other documents evidencing Gorbonos’ ownership in third party STRS, Inc.  No timely written opposition had been filed in response to the motion.  Written opposition was evidently filed on November 14, 2024, after court hours, which was not considered by the court.  The motion for turnover order was denied without prejudice.  This motion was filed by defendants at the same time as the untimely opposition, on November 14, 2024, seeking that the default and default judgment be set aside.    ANALYSIS:Defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. (Dental Alloys) and Ilya Gorbonos bring this motion for an order vacating the default and default judgment arguing that entry of the default and default judgment was the product of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Defendants argue that they did not know about the lawsuit, the default, or the default judgment until recently, as the action was served by substituted service at a post office box which defendants had, due to an unexpected upheaval with respect to defendants’ business and home situation, involving water intrusion and multiple physical moves, failed to check the post office box until recently.   Relief is sought under the discretionary provision of CCP § 473(b), which provides:“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.   Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”The trial court’s granting or denial of relief under this provision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.   State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 610.   It is noted that appellate courts are traditionally “favorably disposed toward such action on the part of the trial courts as will permit, rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal controversies on their merits.”  Mercantile Collection Bureau v. Pinheiro (1948) 84 Cal.App.2d 606, 608, citing Benjamin v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1947) 31 Cal.2d 523. The motion was brought on November 14, 2024, to set aside a default entered on June 20, 2024 and a default judgment entered on July 9, 2024.  This is within six months after the default and default judgment were taken, and based on the circumstances discussed below, appears to be a reasonable time.  The motion is also accompanied by a copy of each of the two answers sought to be filed; one by each of the moving defendants.  [See, Exs. A, B].  The question remains whether defendants sufficiently have established that this is a case where the judgment and default were entered against defendants due to inadvertence, mistake, surprise, or excusable neglect. Specifically, defendants submit the declaration of defendant Ilya Gorbonos, who indicates:“3.  Prior to the present suit being filed, I lived with my wife at 12045 Hoffman St. in the Studio City neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, 91604. Due to an issue with water intrusion, our home became uninhabitable. In the time leading up to, and including the dates of the alleged lawsuit service and defaults, my wife and I were forced to move five times as a result of additional unrelated water damage in separate rental residence. This occurred over a span of 18 months.-Due to water damage that occurred in our home on March 15, 2023, we moved to Calabasas, California from April 27 to March 1, 2024. - Due to new, unrelated water damage in Calabasas, we moved to a new, temporary rental in the Encino neighborhood of Los Angeles, from March 1, 2024 to April 30, 2024. - We moved back to Calabasas on May 1, 2024 to May 27, 2024. Further water damage occurred in the Calabasas rental on May 20, 2024. - We returned to Studio City on May 27, 2024 though the property is still not suitable. We are now in a dispute with our homeowners association. - We moved to a rental in Encino on September 1, 2024, and remain there today.[Gorbonos Decl., para. 3].   The declaration also indicates:5.  ….At the alleged time of the substituted service, myself and the operations of DAU were moved to Calabasas, California. Because of the chaos and multiple moves from home to home, and the distance from Calabasas to Studio City, the PO Box where the suit was substitute served went unchecked. If service had been attempted at any of the other addresses on file with the Secretary of State, it would likely have been successful in alerting us to the lawsuit. 6. When the move back to Studio City was made, the large volume of mail from the PO Box was placed in boxes to review at our home. It was not until reviewing the mail in a box that the lawsuit was discovered. We promptly contacted the Plaintiff through our business attorney in an effort to work out some kind of compromise or deal, but the Plaintiff was unwilling to be reasonable. We then learned about additional documents and hearings after our attorney found them on the court's website.”[Gorbonos Decl., paras. 5, 6].  The declaration also indicates that the defendants then promptly retained an attorney “in order to remedy the defaults and default judgments, and to file our answers.”  [Gorbonos Decl., para. 7].  The timeline is not entirely clear here, but it appears that at the time the lawsuit was filed, on March 19, 2024, defendants were living in Encino, and at the time substituted service was made, on May 6, 2024, as well as when follow up mailing confirming substituted service was made, on May 9, 2024, defendants were in Calabasas.  By the time of the entry of default on June 20, 2024 and the entry of default judgment on July 9, 2024, defendants were in Studio City.  It is not clearly stated when defendants checked the PO box and discovered the service of summons and complaint, but it must have been before the motion was filed on November 14, 2024.    A party seeking relief under section 473 on the ground of excusable neglect bears the burden of demonstrating that the neglect was excusable in order to secure relief.  See Cochran v. Linn (1984, 2nd Dist.) 159 Cal.App.3d 245, 252.  The test of whether neglect was excusable is “whether a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar circumstances might have made the same error.”  Bettencourt v. Los Rios Community College Dist. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 270, 276, quotation, citation omitted; Austin v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2016, 2nd Dist.) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 929 (“Within the context of section 473(b) neglect is excusable if a reasonably prudent person under similar circumstances might have made the same error.”).  Here, it does not necessarily appear reasonable that defendants, in attending to their corporate and personal business, did not check a post office box. The motion concedes that this post office box had been identified as a post office box where its agent for service of process could be served with process. This post office box had been in effect for many months, at least from when substituted service was made at the post office box on May 6, 2024 to some unspecified time before November 14, 2024.  This time frame is a period of slightly over five months.  Specifically, the declaration states, “The instant suit was served via substituted service at a PO Box in the Studio City neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. DAU is a corporation, and it has multiple addresses listed with the California Secretary of State. A true and correct copy of the Statement of Information on file with the California Secretary of State's office is attached and incorporated into this complaint as Exhibit "C".  [Decl., para. 5].  Exhibit C confirms the only address listed for the agent for service of process, Gorbonos, was “2400 VENTURA BLVD UNIT 1345 STUDIO CITY, CA 91604,” which is the post office box where service was made.  [Ex. C, p. 1, “Agent for Service of Process;” Proof of Service, filed 05/10/2024, para. 4]   There is no authority under which plaintiff was required to serve the agent for service of process at alternate addresses to effect service of process, and no alternate addresses appear on the Secretary of State document for the agent, as opposed to for the business or officers. Defendants appear to concede service was proper, but they depend upon the fact that the service did not result in actual notice to defendants due to the circumstances of defendants’ many moves and not checking the post office box in the meantime.    Overall, this does not appear to be a case where defendants had any other reason to have believed that there was a lawsuit proceeding against them, and this lapse in attending to the business, rather than to the known service of a complaint, might appear understandable under the circumstances involving disruption of residences by water intrusion. There is no indication that defendants in fact knew about this action, or are seeking relief after, for example, changing their minds concerning the advisability or intent of defending against the lawsuit.  The default was sought on the very first date on which default could be entered in this action.  [Spiwak Decl., paras.  7-9].  The circumstances do not warrant overcoming the preference that this matter be determined on its merits.    The opposition argues that relief should not be permitted here where defendants were grossly careless in the monitoring of their post office box and their business affairs, which was not reasonable, particularly given that the post office box was located within the same county as each of the places defendant Gorbonos has lived over the past year.  While this situation is not ideal, the court is not inclined find that gross carelessness is shown here. Rather, the conduct here could reasonably construed as excusable neglect.  The opposition also argues that plaintiff will be prejudiced if the relief is granted, as plaintiff has now obtained the status of judgment creditor through the entry of the default judgment, and setting it aside would eliminate this status, and interfere with plaintiff’s ability to recover on a judgment against defendants as against potential other creditors.   This claim is not prejudice which would prevent plaintiff from pursuing its case on the merits, and obtaining a judgment on merits, if proper.  The court finds that the default and default judgment were entered due to excusable neglect. The court exercises its discretion to set aside the judgment and the default.  This result is in keeping with the preference for permitting the adjudication of legal controversies on their merits.   Plaintiff in the alternative requests that if the court is not inclined to deny the motion outright, the court impose conditions on the granting of relief from the default and default judgment.  As noted above, under CCP § 473(b), the court may grant relief “upon any terms as may be just…”Under CCP § 473(c)(1): “Whenever the court grants relief from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following:(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.(C) Grant other relief as is appropriate.” In Jade K. v. Viguri (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1459, the court of appeal, applying an earlier version of CCP § 473, held:“Section 473 permits the court to grant relief “upon such terms as may be just.” The court may properly order payment of costs or attorney fees to the adverse party as compensation for loss or expense occasioned by the granting of the section 473 motion. (Hearst v. Ferrante (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 201, 204 [234 Cal.Rptr. 385]; Hansen v. Snap-Tite, Inc. (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 208, 213 [100 Cal.Rptr. 51].)”Jade K., 1474.  Plaintiff first seeks that the court order that defendants post a bond with the Court in the sum of $63,416.96, the total judgment plaintiff has against defendants, to prevent plaintiff from losing its security as a judgment creditor.  Until the matter is heard on its merits, however, it is not clear plaintiff is entitled to security as a judgment creditor.  This relief is not granted.  Plaintiff also argues that defendants should be ordered to compensate plaintiff in the sum of $6,691.50 for attorney’s fees and costs incurred in obtaining and attempting to collect the judgment.  Plaintiff argues such compensation is appropriate because the expenses would be completely wasted if the judgment is set aside and plaintiff would not have incurred these expenses if defendants had properly made a timely appearance in this action.Plaintiff in opposition submits a declaration of counsel indicating that attorney’s fees were incurred at the rate of $325 per hour and that, to date, plaintiff’s attorney has spent a total of 19.1 hours obtaining the default judgment and pursuing its enforcement, excluding the time spent preparing and drafting the opposition to defendants’ present motion (which is evidently not claimed at all), for a total of $6,207.50 in fees.  The hours are broken down as follows:A. 4.5 hours spent preparing Request for Entry of Default and Request for Court Judgment; B. 2 hours on post-judgment collection efforts, including: preparation of Notice of Entry of Judgment, Application for Writ of Execution and Abstract of Judgment; filing of Notice of Entry of Judgment, Writ of Execution, and Abstract of Judgment; preparation of Application for Order and Appearance for Judgment Debtor Examination; and preparation of Subpoena Duces Tecum and list of documents to produce; C. 2.5 hours on preparation and drafting of Motion for Turnover Order; D. 5.5 hours on preparation of levy instructions to Sheriff for three bank levies; drafting and preparation of three Notices of Levy; drafting and preparation of three Memorandums of Garnishee; E. 1 hour rescheduling Order for Appearance and Examination of Judgment Debtor because we were unable to personally serve Defendant Gorbonos with the required documents; preparation and drafting of Judgement Creditor’s Notice of Rescheduling Judgment Debtor Examination; filing of the same with the court; F. 3.6 hours on appearance on Motion for Turnover order.[Spiwak Decl., para. 14]     This totals 19.1 hours, which, at $325 per hour, totals $6,207.50 in fees, as represented.          Plaintiff’s counsel also indicates that plaintiff has incurred an additional $484.00 in post-judgment costs for post-judgment efforts, broken down as follows:  a. $114.00 Los Angeles County fee for recording Abstract of Judgment; b. $150.00 for Los Angeles County Sheriff fee for three bank levies ($50.00 per bank levy); c. $40.00 Court Fee for issuance of Abstract of Judgment; d. $40.00 Court Fee for issuance of Writ of Execution; e. $60.00 Court Fee for filing Application for Order and Appearance for Judgment Debtor Examination; f.  $60.00 Court Fee for filing Motion for Turnover Order; g. $20.00 Court Fee for filing of Proposed Turnover Order. [Spiwak Decl., para. 15]. These sums total $484.00 in costs, as represented. Plaintiff has accordingly established that it has incurred $6,207.50 in fees and $484.00 in costs for a total of $6,691.50 in attorney’s fees and costs in obtaining the judgment and in attempting to collect the judgment prior to defendants’ motion to set the judgment and default aside.  [Spiwak Decl., para. 16].  These expenses appear to have all been incurred due to the failure of defendants to respond to the complaint, so that the matter proceeded by default, and those expenses will essentially have been unnecessarily incurred due to the granting of relief to defendants.  The expenses appear reasonable.  There is no request by plaintiff for the fees incurred to oppose this motion, further supporting the reasonableness of the fees which are being sought. The fees and costs are awarded as requested.   RULING: Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.  The default entered June 20, 2024 and the default judgment entered July 9, 2024 as to moving defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Ilya Gorbonos are vacated and set aside pursuant to CCP § 473(b), based on moving parties’ excusable neglect.   Defendants are ordered to efile separate signed copies of Ilya Gorbonos Answer to Verified Complaint, and Dental Alloys USA, Inc’s. Answer to Verified Complaint submitted as Exhibits A and B with the moving papers by close of business this date, and the answers will be deemed served upon filing. Pursuant to CCP § 473(b) and (c)(1), the Court awards to plaintiff and against defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Ilya Gorbonos compensation for the reasonable fees and costs incurred to pursue the default judgment and enforcement of the judgment, which the Court finds were occasioned by the granting of this motion based on defendants’ excusable neglect, in the sum of $6,691.50 [$6,207.50 fees and $484.00 costs, total  $6,691.50 requested], payable within sixty days. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 