  Case Number:  20GDCV00473    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING Calendar:     10 Date:               1/10/2025   Case No:         20 GDCV00473     Case Name: Haas, et al. v. Murphy, et al. MOTIONS TO STRIKE/TAX COSTS (2)  Moving Party:             Defendants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy  Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Birgit Haas  and Scott Haas       Responding Party: Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Birgit Haas  and Scott Haas        Defendants Terri Murphy and Michael MurphyRELIEF REQUESTED/ITEMS TO BE STRICKEN: Strike/Tax Memorandum of Costs FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND: Plaintiffs Birgit Haas and Scott Haas brought this action alleging that they are the owners of real property located in Sierra Madre, and that defendants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy are the owners of real property adjacent to plaintiffs’ property (the Murphy property), which sits at a lower elevation than plaintiffs’ property and a slope sits on the north side of the Murphy property increasing in elevation up to plaintiffs’ property.  Plaintiffs allege that both properties are subject to Covenants and Restrictions (CC&Rs) recorded on the lots included in the subject tract, which include conditions that prohibit erecting or maintaining buildings other than one private one family residence not exceeding one story in height, together with customary out buildings, including a private garage for not more than three cars, and conditions requiring that each grantee permit free access by owners of adjacent or adjoining lots to slopes or drainageways located on the property which affect adjoining lots when such access is essential to for the maintenance or permanent stabilization on slopes or for the protection of use of property other than the lot on which the slope or drainageway is located.  An additional condition includes that each grantee of a lot in the tract agrees that he will not interfere with established drainage over his lot, defined as the drainage which occurred at the time the overall grading of the tract was completed.   The SAC alleges that all conditions under the CC&Rs were to run with the land and be binding on persons claiming under them until January 1, 1988, at which time the CC&Rs are to be automatically extended for successive periods of ten years, unless changed by vote, and are to operate as covenants running with the land, with breaches subject to injunction or abatement.  Plaintiffs allege that since May of 2016, plaintiffs have also been the record owners of a recorded drainage easement over the northerly 16 feet of the Murphy property, recorded July 9, 1962, which easement benefits plaintiffs’ property by directing water away from the property and to the street, limiting saturation of the slope, which slope plaintiffs believe supports the foundation of their property.  Plaintiffs allege that defendants claim some right, title or interest in the drainage easement adverse to plaintiffs’ title, and their claims constitute a cloud on plaintiffs’ title.  The complaint alleges that defendants have caused to be constructed a building, a fence, and other encroachments by Murphy on the alleged draining easement, which obstructs the flow of water through the drainage easement as well as plaintiffs’ ability to maintain the drainage easement.The SAC alleges that in October of 2019, plaintiffs commenced maintenance on the drainage easement, but shortly thereafter defendant demanded that the maintenance stop and refused access to the drainage easement or the slope for maintenance.  Plaintiffs allege that defendants continue to refuse access to the drainage easement, and have threatened to call the police, constructed a fence, filed a cross complaint to prevent access to the drainage easement. Defendants have sent a letter to counsel for plaintiffs disclaiming plaintiffs’ right to the drainage easement and accusing plaintiffs of trespass. Defendants the Murphys, as Trustees of the Murphy Family Trust,  filed a cross-complaint, alleging that in June of 2004, the Murphys had received fee title to the Murphy property, having purchased it from their predecessor, and that they thereafter transferred legal title to themselves in their capacity as Trustees of The Murphy Family Trust.  Defendants allege that the June 18, 2004 grant deed from the predecessor conveys the entire fee interest of the entirety of the real property, without any exception and without the real property being burdened in any way by any easement in favor of any property to the north.   Cross-complainants allege that the tract map of the Murphy property shows only a utility easement across the east side of the property.  The cross-complaint alleges that from 1961 through May of 2016, Gordon Hawkins owned and occupied the real property directly to the north of and adjacent to the Murphy property, and that at the time cross-complainants acquired the property, there were several block walls constructed on the Murphy property, less than sixteen feet from the boundary line, which area was also planted with maturing trees, bushes and other vegetation.  Cross-complainants allege that beginning in about 2013 and continuing into about 2014, they began the process of planning and seeking approval of the City of Sierra Madre to relocate a portion of one of the block walls, include in the relocation new drainage systems, and construct a two-story pool house that would be about ten feet from the boundary line. The plans were reviewed with Hawkins, who did not voice any objection or concern about drainage or any drainage easement. After receiving Hawkins’ consent, cross-complainants submitted their plans to the City, and they applied for the necessary permits.  After receiving approval and the necessary permits, cross-complainants undertook the work, which was completed in 2015, and received final approval from the City.  At no time since the work was completed has there been any problem with the drainage of the surface water flowing naturally from the Hawkins’ property.   The cross-complaint alleges that in 2016, cross-defendants Birgit Haas and Scott Haas entered the Hawkins property, observed the Murphy property, including the relocated block wall, drainage systems, pool house, and vegetation that were within 16 feet of the boundary line between the properties, and were provided with documents showing Hawkins and his deceased wife had received, as their personal right, an easement for drainage purposes only over the northern sixteen feet of the Murphy property.  Cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendants had the right to inquire about the improvements on the Murphy property at that time, which they either exercised or knowingly waived, but that on May 25, 2016, after having observed, examined, and investigated, cross-defendants chose to go forward with their acquisition of the Hawkins’ property. The cross-complaint further alleges that beginning in October of 2019, cross-defendants intentionally entered the Murphy property, without permission, and intentionally cut down trees, bushes and vegetation on the property, and have done so on several occasions, including an occasion after cross-complainants had hired a surveyor to mark the property line, cross-complainants had installed a wooden fence in compliance with the applicable municipal code,  and installed a “No Trespassing” sign, and informed everyone on the other side, including cross-defendants, that they had no right or permission to enter the real property.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-complainants have been damaged by the loss of the trees, bushes and vegetation which have been removed, and also by the circumstance that the integrity of the slope and ability to handle normal surface water flows and water flows during rainy seasons has been put at risk.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for trespass to real property and trespass to timber. On July 15, 2022, the court heard motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication brought by plaintiffs and by the Murphy defendants.  The motion for summary adjudication brought by the Murphy defendants was granted as to the fifth cause of action of the SAC for permanent injunction and damages—violation of CC&Rs, and the sixth cause of action for declaratory relief re CC&Rs, on the ground defendants had submitted undisputed evidence showing that the property now owned by plaintiffs was conveyed to their predecessors in interest, Gordon Hawkins and Jeanne Hawkins, prior to the effective date and date of recording of the CC&Rs plaintiffs were attempting to enforce.        Two of the remaining causes of action of the SAC and the cross-action based on the SACC went to a court trial in October of 2022 and August of 2023.   In February of 2024, the court entered it final statement of decision and a correction to that final statement of decision.  On April 24, 2024, at a Status Conference re Trial, plaintiffs made an oral motion to the court for dismissal without prejudice of the second cause of action for private nuisance, and for permanent injunction and damages—interference with easement, which had been reserved to be tried in a second phase of the trial.     On September 3, 2024, judgment was entered in the matter. Judgment as to the SAC was for defendants and against plaintiffs the Haas parties on the first cause of action for quiet title to express easement, the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief re easement, and the fifth and sixth causes of action based on the CC&Rs (as determined on the motion for summary adjudication discussed above).   Judgment as to the SACC was for cross-defendants the Haas parties and against cross-complainants the Murphys as trustees of the family trust on the first cause of action for trespass to real property and the second cause of action for trespass to timber.  Judgment as to the SACC was for cross-complainants the Murphys as trustees and against cross-defendants the Haas parties on the third cause of action for declaratory relief and the fourth cause of action for quiet title.  Judgment was declared that the express easement that was the subject of this case was extinguished by adverse possession, extinguishment of the servitude, and/or abandoned by plaintiffs’ predecessors in interest.   Judgment was also declared that title to the Murphy property is free and clear of the Easement for Drainage Purposes Only recorded on July 9, 1962, and no other person or entity claiming any right, estate, or interest in the property adverse to the Murphys’ interest has any interest in the property.   The judgment states, “Costs and attorney’s fees, if any, to the prevailing party to be determined by a post judgment memorandum of costs and motion for attorney’s fees.”  [Judgment, p. 4:1-2].  On November 15, 2023, the court heard a motion brought by defendants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy for an award of attorney’s fees against the Haas parties for the work performed in connection with defendant’s defense against the Haas parties’ claims and causes of action for enforcement of the CC&Rs.   The motion was granted.  The court found that defendants the Murphys were the prevailing parties in the portion of this action which was brought to enforce the governing documents of a common interest development, and were entitled to reasonable fees to prevail on those claims.  The court found that reasonable attorney’s fees were $53,940.00, which were awarded to the Murphy defendants against plaintiffs Birgit Haas and Scott Haas. The Murphy parties and the Haas parties have each filed a Memorandum of Costs, seeking recovery of costs incurred in this matter.  Each set of parties has filed a motion to strike and/or tax the costs sought by the other parties.     ANALYSIS:Motion to Tax Costs—Murphy Motion as to Haas Memorandum of Costs The Murphys seek to strike, or, in the alternative, tax the costs sought by plaintiffs/cross-defendants the Haas parties, arguing that neither of the Haas’s are a prevailing party in this case, so have no right to recover costs, and even if it is assumed they are prevailing parties, the costs they seek are not allowable or recoverable.  The Murphys argue that the Haas parties are not prevailing parties in this case. CCP § 1032 (a) (4) defines “prevailing party”:“(4) ‘Prevailing party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.  If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.”In this situation, as summarized above, judgment as to the SAC was for defendants and against plaintiffs the Haas parties on the first cause of action for quiet title to express easement, the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief re easement, and the fifth and sixth causes of action based on the CC&Rs.  Judgment as to the SACC was for cross-defendants the Haas parties and against cross-complainants the Murphys as trustees of the family trust on the first cause of action for trespass to real property and the second cause of action for trespass to timber.  Judgment as to the SACC was for cross-complainants the Murphys as trustees and against cross-defendants the Haas parties on the third cause of action for declaratory relief and the fourth cause of action for quiet title.  Judgment was declared that the express easement that was the subject of this case was extinguished by adverse possession, extinguishment of the servitude, and/or abandoned by plaintiffs’ predecessors in interest.   Judgment was also declared that title to the Murphy property is free and clear of the Easement for Drainage Purposes Only recorded on July 9, 1962, and no other person or entity claiming any right, estate, or interest in the property adverse to the Murphys’ interest has any interest in the property.    In this case, neither side obtained a net “monetary” recovery, defendants did not obtain full dismissal, and both defendants and plaintiffs obtained some form of relief, in the form of judgment in their favor, so that none of the enumerated statutory definitions in the first sentence of the statute apply.  As pointed out in the opposition, the Haas defendants were forced to defend against the cross-complaint, and successfully did so in part, as judgment in connection with the SACC was for cross-defendants the Haas parties and against cross-complainants the Murphys on the first cause of action for trespass to real property and the second cause of action for trespass to timber. The court accordingly finds that the statutory provision applies that “If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.” The court determines that the Murphy defendants were the prevailing parties on the complaint and a portion of the cross-complaint, but that the Haas defendants were required to defend against the cross-complaint causes of action for trespass to real property and trespass to timber.  The court is very familiar with the proceedings in this case, having personally presided over the trial and other proceedings, and has reviewed the file, and its Statement of Decision, and determines that the claims upon which the Haas parties were successful would warrant an apportionment of 20% of the reasonable costs incurred in this matter to be offset or apportioned against the reasonable costs claimed by the Murphys.   The Haas parties claim in their Memorandum of Costs total costs of $21,885.51.Under CCP § 1033.5(c)(2), “Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”  Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in amount.”Where a cost item does not appear proper and necessary on its face, the burden of proof is on the claimant to show the cost is appropriate.  Murphy v. F.D. Cornell Co., (1930) 110 Cal. App. 452, 454.   If the items appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary.   Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.  Where items are properly objected to as not reasonable or necessary, however, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.  Id.  The trial court’s determination on a motion to tax or strike costs will be reversed only for an abuse of discretion.   Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994, 2nd Dist.) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 121.   The Murphys challenge the following claimed costs:Item 1—Filing and Motion Fees ($382.95)  CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(1) Filing, motion, and jury fees.”The Murphys argue that several of the filing and motion fees are for the filing of motions for which the court does not charge filing fees, and that the Haas parties have claimed more than the $60 per motion or ex parte filing fees which are set forth in the LASC Civil Fee Schedule.  A copy of the schedule, as updated in January of 2024 is attached to the motion.  [Miller Decl., para. 2, Ex. A]. It would appear from the Memorandum of Costs that the filing fees which appear proper on their face would be the $61.65 motion reservation, and an ex parte application fee claimed for $61.65, as the court is aware that a $1.65 fee for processing is now being charged.    The remaining charges, for items not formally requiring fees, do not appear proper charges, shifting the burden to the Haas parties to justify them. The opposition argues that each of the costs itemized by Haas in section 1 for filing and motion fees are for filed pleadings with the court, and that the mere fact that there is no filing fee for filing of certain of the pleadings does not obviate the requirement that the pleadings had to be filed.  The argument seems to be that the fees were for electronic filing of documents, but if this is the case, such costs should have been claimed on the Memorandum at “Item 14—Fees for electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service provider,” under which fees of $50.30 have been claimed by the Haas parties, and not challenged by the motion to tax, or under “Other,” as the motion argues these fees can be awarded discretionarily.   Moreover, although the burden has shifted to justify these fees, the opposition does not include invoices or evidence otherwise explaining each of the filing fees claimed.  The motion accordingly is granted in part and the fees claimed of $382.95 will be reduced to two filing fees of $61.65, or $123.30 (a reduction of $259.65). Item 5—Service of Process ($120.40) CCP section 1033.5(a)(4) specifies that allowable costs include: "(4) Service of process by a public officer, registered process server, or other means, as follows:(A) When service is by a public officer, the recoverable cost is the fee authorized by law at the time of service.B)  If service is by a process server registered pursuant to Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 22350) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions Code, the recoverable cost is the amount actually incurred in effecting service, including, but not limited to, a stakeout or other means employed in locating the person to be served, unless such charges are successfully challenged by a party to the action." The Murphys argue that the claim is for service of process on counsel for Murphy, but that there was no service of process on counsel for Murphy.  The item claims “Registered process” on “Katharine Miller.”  The Murphys submit a declaration from counsel Miller stating, “I have never been served with process in this case…”  [Murphy Decl., para. 4].  This showing is sufficient to shift the burden to the Haas parties to show this cost was incurred and reasonable.  The opposition argues that the charges are for personal service of plaintiff’s objections to the deposition notices of Scott Haas and Steve Norris to ensure timely delivery.  This item is not service of process, and the cost is not considered recoverable.   Item 12—Court reporter fees ($18,024.40) Under CCP section 1033.5 (a)(11), allowable costs include “Court reporter fees as established by statute.”  Under subsection (a) (9), allowable costs include “Transcripts of court proceedings ordered by the court.”  Under CRC Rule 2.956(c):“If the services of an official court reporter are not available for a hearing or trial in a civil case, a party may arrange for the presence of a certified shorthand reporter to serve as an official pro tempore reporter. It is that party's responsibility to pay the reporter's fee for attendance at the proceedings, but the expense may be recoverable as part of the costs, as provided by law.”The Murphys argue that the court did not order or require a court reporter, but the Haas parties chose to have a reporter present. The opposition indicates that the trial of this matter lasted 8 court days, and counsel for the Haas parties ordered the services of a trial court reporter for each day, which services were reasonably necessary to the litigation process, and that the court itself acknowledged that it had received the trial transcripts, and requested transcripts for the trial dates of August 29, 30 and 31, 2023.  The opposition attaches a portion of a trial transcript in which the court requests transcripts from certain dates.  [Chuck Decl., Ex. A, pp. 33-35].  The Memorandum of Costs, however, does not reference any court reporter fees for those dates, or any dates in August 2023.    [See Memorandum, para. 12, Attachment 12c].   No invoices or billings are submitted for those dates, or any other evidence offered in support of such costs.  The costs, are not be considered allowable costs under the circumstances and are taxed.   Item 16—Other ($197.74) CCP §1033.5(a)(16) provides that allowable costs include:“Any other item that is required to be awarded to the prevailing party pursuant to statute as an incident to prevailing in the action at trial or on appeal.” CCP§ 1033.5(c)(4) provides that “Items not mentioned in this section and items assessed upon application may be allowed or denied in the court’s discretion.”    The Murphys argue that the Memorandum seeks costs of “Document Downloads from Court, Court Connect,” which are not allowable, and appear to be merely for the convenience of counsel.  The opposition argues that the cost were reasonable and necessary because both opposing counsel and the court were inconsistent in who it served documents and orders on, and indicates that, for example, the court did not serve its December 21, 2023 Statement of Decision on plaintiffs’ counsel and opposing counsel routinely failed to include plaintiffs’ counsel’s designated email for service of process, so that it was necessary to monitor the docket.   These charges do not appear proper on their face, and there is no mention of the facts relied upon in the declaration or documentation supporting this argument, which appears only in the memorandum, and is merely argument.  The costs have accordingly not been justified, and are not considered allowable.  The total costs requested, $21,885.51 will be considered proper for an offset as reduced by $259.65, $120.40,  $18,024.40, and $197.74.  The revised figure is accordingly $3,283.32.   Twenty percent of that sum is $656.66, which will be offset against costs awarded to the Murphys, discussed below.  Motion to Tax Costs—Haas Motion as to Murphy Memorandum of Costs The Haas parties seek to tax the costs sought by plaintiffs the Murphys arguing that the Murphys were not the prevailing party as to certain of the costs related to filing fees, deposition costs, reporter fees and trial exhibits, and that the expert fees are not authorized by statute as a recoverable cost. As discussed above, the court finds that the Murphys were prevailing parties on a substantial portion of this action as a whole, to whom costs will be awarded. In the court’s discretion the court will allocate an offset of the costs to be awarded to the Murphys to account for the percentage of costs incurred by the Haas parties to successful defend against a portion of the cross-complaint. With respect to the challenge to specific cost items, the Murphys claim in their Memorandum of Costs total costs of $25,229.09. As discussed above, under CCP § 1033.5(c)(2), “Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”  Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in amount.”Where a cost item does not appear proper and necessary on its face, the burden of proof is on the claimant to show the cost is appropriate.  Murphy v. F.D. Cornell Co., (1930) 110 Cal. App. 452, 454.   If the items appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary.   Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.  Where items are properly objected to as not reasonable or necessary, however, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.  Id.  The trial court’s determination on a motion to tax or strike costs will be reversed only for an abuse of discretion.   Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994, 2nd Dist.) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 121.   The Haas parties challenge the following claimed costs:Item 1—Filing and Motion Fees ($1,850.00)  The Haas parties argue that $120 of the entries pertain to an ex parte application regarding the FACC, a stipulation to a briefing schedule, and a request for a statement of decision, on which the Murphys cannot be reasonably construed as the prevailing party.  The argument is difficult to follow, as this is not a situation where the Murphys were not at least partially successful in prosecuting the cross-complaint, as they obtained a declaration and a judgment quieting title.  It is not clear how filing stipulations to a briefing schedule and a request for statement of decision was as not reasonably necessary in the participation of the  Murphys in this proceeding.  The charges appear to be proper charges, and are not taxed. Item 2—Jury Fees ($168.95) CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(1) Filing, motion, and jury fees.”The Haas parties argue that these fees should not be awarded as the Murphys waived jury and proceeded to a bench trial, and that the only causes of action on which they would have been entitled to a jury were the tort claims for trespass to property and trespass to timber in the SACC on which the Haas parties were awarded judgment. There is no legal authority presented for this argument, and it would appear that the deposit of jury fees was reasonable and necessary at the early stage of the litigation. The opposition argues that the fees were posted on August 13, 2020, at which time Haas’s causes of action included nuisance, and Murphys’ included trespass, to which jury trial rights applied.  CCP section 631(b), provides, in pertinent part: “At least one party demanding a jury on each side of a civil case shall pay a nonrefundable fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)…”This statue appears to establish that the fee up to the sum of $150 is proper on its face.  The fee is nonrefundable, and remains subject to the costs statute indicating it is an allowable cost. With respect to the sum exceeding $150, the court cannot ascertain whether this item is proper, which shifts the burden to the Murphys to establish it is proper.   The Murphys in opposition to the motion have submitted no evidence on this matter, and have failed to submit evidence of payment of any jury fees in excess of those statutorily required. The item will accordingly be reduced to $150, for a reduction of $18.95.  Item 4—Deposition costs ($11,537.41)CCP § 1033.5(a) lists allowable costs, which include, “(3)(A) Taking, video recording, and transcribing necessary depositions, including an original and one copy of those taken by the claimant and one copy of depositions taken by the party against whom costs are allowed.” The motion argues that the depositions of the parties Birgit and Scott Haas, and Michael and Terri Murphy pertained to all issues of both the complaint and the cross-complaint, and as the judgment was mixed, the Murphys cannot be considered the prevailing party for recovery of the deposition costs.  The motion then argues that should the court believe the Murphys are entitled to recover deposition costs, then the amounts should be reduced by 50% to address the mixed judgment.  This argument appears to concede that the costs for those deponents is reasonable and was incurred but that there should be an apportionment of those costs to account for the mixed results.  Again, these appear to be proper charges in their entirety to the Murphys, who were required to incur those deposition costs in order to defend this action and prosecute the cross-complaint and achieve the judgment entered.  The court is not inclined to reduce those costs, particularly given the apportionment for the offset of the costs established to have been incurred by the Haas parties, discussed in connection with the other motion to tax , above.  The motion also argues that the memorandum of costs is inconsistent with respect to the deposition costs claimed for the costs for the deposition of the Haas parties’ soils engineering expert Steven Norris, as the cost of the deposition is shown as only $1,388.09, but is shown in a higher amount of $3,241.64 in the subtotal column.  The Haas parties argue that this line item must therefore be reduced by $1,853.55.  The opposition states that the inadvertency in the stated subtotal of $3,241.64 is acknowledged, and the total recoverable amount should be corrected to be $1 ,388.09.  The motion accordingly is granted in this respect. The costs sought for this item is reduced by $1,853.55.Item 8—Ordinary witness fees ($4,177.50)CCP section 1033.5(a)(7) provides that recoverable costs include "[o]rdinary witness fees pursuant to section 68093 of the Government Code." Government Code section 68093 provides that witness fees are $35.00 per day and miles actually traveled, both ways, at twenty cents per mile. The motion argues that the memorandum of costs improperly seeks expert fees in the total sum of $4,177.50.  The memorandum does seek in this item four separate “expert fee” sums, which far exceed any permissible ordinary witness fees.  Under CCP section 1033.5(a)(8), allowable costs include “Fees of expert witnesses ordered by the court.”   Such expert fees are ordinarily claimed under Item 8 (c) for “Court-ordered expert fees,” not under this item, which includes no indication that the expert fees sought were ordered by the court.    As argued by the Haas parties, the Murphys are not entitled to expert fees here, as there is no evidence that these fees were ordered by the court, and such fees are generally not allowable as costs under CCP section 1033.5(b)(1), which provides:“The following items are not allowable as costs, except when expressly authorized by law:(1) Fees of experts not ordered by the court.”The motion relies on Baker-Hoey v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 592, in which the court of appeal held that ordinary witness fees, as defined in Government Code section 68093 and CCP section 1986.5, do not include expert fees.  Baker-Hoey, at 594.The court of appeal reasoned:“[A]n expert witness ordered by the court is one who has been appointed by the court pursuant to Evidence Code section 730 or other statutory authority. In the absence of an order of the trial court appointing an expert witness, the fees of an expert witness are not recoverable as costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032.” (Sanchez v. Bay Shores Medical Group (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 946, 950, 89 Cal.Rptr.2d 634; Desplancke v. Wilson (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 631, 635–636, 17 Cal.Rptr.2d 586.) “The fact that an expert is necessary to present a party's case does not mean that expert has been ordered by the court for purposes of recovery of expert witness fees as costs. [Citation.]” (Sanchez v. Bay Shores Medical Group, supra, 75 Cal.App.4th 946, 950, 89 Cal.Rptr.2d 634.) Thus, the fact that expert witness fees had to be paid under section 2034(i)(2) in order to take the depositions of the treating physicians does not mean that those fees are necessarily recoverable costs.Such fees are simply not ordinary witness fees as described in section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(7) and Lockheed Martin cannot, by the verbal alchemy of its skilled attorneys, successfully transmute the phrase “ordinary witness fees” into a higher category entitled “ordinary witness fees of treating physicians.” Treating physicians are experts and recovery of their fees as costs are accordingly governed by section 1033.5's provisions governing expert witness fees, not the provisions applicable to ordinary witnesses.”Baker-Hoey, at 601.  The file here does not include any indication that any expert fees were ordered by the court. Hence, the costs as claimed appear improper on their face. This status shifts the burden to the Murphys to establish that these are recoverable costs. The Murphys appear to concede that the fees are not recoverable as expert fees, but argues that if the court, “in its discretion,” does not allow these fees, it should allow ordinary witness fees of $35.00 for each of the witnesses for each day.  This request is not what is sought in the memorandum of costs, and the opposition fails to submit evidence to support that ordinary witness fees were incurred in connection with any of the sums sought in connection with this item.   The item accordingly is taxed in its entirety and is disallowed in the sum of  $4,177.50. Item 11—Models, enlargements, and photographs of exhibits ($567.37)CCP 1033.5(a)(13) provides, “Models, the enlargement of exhibits and photocopies of exhibits, and the electronic presentation of exhibits, including costs of rental equipment and electronic formatting, may be allowed if they were reasonably helpful to the trier of fact.”  CCP §1033.5 (b) specifies that certain items are not allowable as costs unless expressly authorized by law, including "Investigation expenses in preparing the case for trial" and "…photocopying charges, except for exhibits." §1033.5(b)(2), (3).  The Memorandum of Costs states at paragraph 11 of the Memorandum of Costs that costs for Models, enlargements and photocopies of exhibits are claimed for “Trial exhibits.”  The court, having presided over the trial, used the binders prepared by the Murphys, and having some familiarity with the general costs of mass copying such as that required for the trial exhibits here views the costs claimed, $567.37, as proper on their face.The Haas parties argue that the cost of exhibits, such as maps and photographs, prepared at the sole instance of the party introducing them at trial is not a proper item of costs.  There is no declaration or evidence submitted with the motion explaining what specific exhibits were not introduced at trial, or were not reasonably helpful to the trier of fact, in this case, the court.  As the court recalls, this dispute concerning real property rights reasonably required exhibits such as maps and photographs in connection with certain relevant facts.  In the absence of more specifics, the court cannot find the costs unreasonable.  The Murphys in opposition argue that the court order for duplicate exhibit binders, for the court, the witness, opposing counsel and offering counsel, supports a finding that the costs sought are reasonable, and that the case law cited by the Haas parties is distinguishable or predated before section 1033.5 was enacted.  The Haas parties in reply do not address this item, which the court construes as an abandonment of this challenge to the item of costs.  The motion to tax this item accordingly is denied.  Item 12—Court reporter fees ($4,461.28)As discussed above, court reporter fees are recoverable under CCP section 1033.5 (9) and (11) and CRC Rule 2.956(c). The Haas parties argue that the majority of the costs relate to trial of this matter as listed by the Murphys, and that since the judgment was mixed the items should be stricken as the Murphys were not the sole prevailing party.  As discussed above, the court is not inclined to strike or tax costs on this ground.  It is not argued that the fees sought were not necessary to the Murphys’ case or that the fees sought are not reasonable in amount.  Instead, the Haas parties again appear to concede the reasonableness of the fees, but suggest they be reduced by 50%.  This argument is insufficient to call into question the propriety of the costs, which are conceded to be proper on their face.  The opposition argues that the Murphys’ Memorandum is the only evidence before the court.  It is true that the Haas parties have not submitted any argument  or evidence challenging the amounts claimed or the necessity of the fees sought.  While the court would ordinarily prefer the submission by the party claiming the fees to come forward with billings or invoices, as the reasonableness and necessity of the fees is not expressly challenged, and the reply again makes only a mixed judgment argument, which the court again rejects on legal grounds. The motion to tax this item is denied.  Item 14—Fees for electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service provider  ($2,466.58)CCP section 1033.5(a)(14) provides that allowable costs include:“Fees for the electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service provider if a court requires or orders electronic filing or service of documents.” The Haas parties argue that the Murphys seek $2,466.58 in Section 14 for this item, but no breakdown or detail is set forth on what pleadings or filings this represents.  This assertion is true; the Memorandum only sets forth a total figure without any breakdown of that fees were incurred or supporting their reasonableness.   The argument by the Haas parties is sufficient to shift the burden to the Murphys to justify these fees or costs.   The opposition argues that the figure represents a prima facie case, and that no specific challenge is made by the motion to tax.  However, the objection that there is no breakdown or detail appears sufficient to call into question both that such fees were incurred and their reasonableness.  The Murphys in opposition simply submit a summary entitled “Section 14” with dates, a sum of e-filing costs, a courtesy delivery cost and a description of the documents served or filed this way.   This information should have been submitted with the original memorandum of costs. In the face of the challenge articulated here, and the lack of the court’s familiarity with the customary charges, particularly what appear to be very high charges for “Courtesy Delivery Cost” items, the court is not satisfied with this showing.  There is also no attempt by the Murphys to establish by any declaration or evidence that electronic service was required by the court, particularly given that the charges go back as far as 2021.  The Murphys were obviously able to compile specific figures in support of this item, and it is unclear why the Murphys would not have submitted the actual invoices or payments, or a declaration confirming that these charges were incurred, and explaining the reasonableness of such charges in the face of a challenge.   The motion to tax this item accordingly is be granted. The total costs sought in the Murphy Memorandum of Costs in the sum of $25,169.09 will be taxed and reduced by $18.95, $1,853.55, $4,177.50, and $2,466.58, and costs will be awarded to defendants and cross-complainants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy in the sum of $16,652.51, with an offset for 20% of awardable costs sought by the Haas parties in the sum of $646.66, for a total sum of $15,995.85.  RULING:Motion to Strike Haas’s Memorandum of Costs or, In the Alternative, to Tax Haas’s Memorandum of Costs is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The Court finds that the statutory provision under CCP § 1032 (a)(4) which applies here is that “If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.”The Court determines that the defendants and cross-complainants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy were the prevailing parties on the complaint and a portion of the cross-complaint, but that plaintiffs and cross-defendants Birgit Haas and Scott Haas were required to defend against the cross-complaint causes of action for trespass to real property and trespass to timber.  The Court, based on its personal familiarity with the proceedings in this case, the file, the Court’s Statement of Decision and the arguments of the parties, determines that the claims upon which the Haas parties were successful would warrant an apportionment of 20% of the reasonable costs incurred in this matter to be offset or apportioned against the reasonable costs claimed by the Murphys.  The total costs requested by the Haas parties, $21,885.51, is considered proper for an offset as reduced by $259.65, $120.40,  $18,024.40, and $197.74.  The revised figure is accordingly $3,283.32.   Twenty percent of that sum is $656.66, which will be offset against costs awarded to the Murphys, below.   Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Birgit Haas and Scott Haas’ Motion to Tax Costs is  GRANTED IN PART. The total costs sought in the Memorandum of Costs filed by the Murphys in the sum of $25,169.09 is taxed and reduced by $18.95, $1,853.55, $4,177.50, and $2,466.58, and costs will be awarded to defendants and cross-complainants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy in the sum of $16,652.51, with an offset for 20% of costs sought by the Haas parties in the sum of $656.66, for a total sum of $15,995.85.    Total costs awarded=   $15,995.85, to be awarded to defendants and cross-complainants Terri Murphy and Michael Murphy and against plaintiffs and cross-defendant Birgit Haas and Scott Haas, to be added to the current judgment. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative.  