  Case Number:  19STCV10467    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT BY DEFENDANTS’ AHMAD ABDELRAHAM dba ACCESS STORAGE, KHAMES
ABDELRAHAM, NAJIB ABDELRAHAM and AGENTKHAM, INC (“Defendants”) is GRANTED, notably
as Plaintiffs have not provided evidence that making a left turn onto SR74 was
foreseeable (foreseeability and safety, the latter of which Plaintiffs
speaks to, are different for purposes of creating a duty). 
                                                                                                           
Background
 
This lawsuit arises out of a July 9, 2017 fatal motor
vehicle collision.[1] 
 
On March 27, 2019, Plaintiffs, Jaime Valenzuela, individually, and as
successor in interest to Irving Valenzuela, deceased, and Tammy Martinez,
individually, and as successor in interest to Irving Valenzuela, deceased filed
suit.
 
On February
24, 2021, Plaintiffs (or Plaintiff) filed their third amended complaint (TAC). 
 
On April 4,
2023, Defendants filed the instant motion. 
 
On October
23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the MSJ. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
 
A moving
defendant bears the initial burden of production to show that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall
include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material
facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts
stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure
to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1), emphasis added.) 
 
The opposing
party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but
instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra,
at p. 849.) Specifically, “[t]he
opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether
the papers show that there is a triable issue as to any material fact, the
court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the moving papers, except
that as to which objections have been made and sustained, and all inferences
reasonable deducible from such evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986)
176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)

 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Court need
only rule on objections material to adjudication of the motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(2), subs. (q) [“In granting or denying a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall
be preserved for appellate review.”].)  
 
Where
relevant, the evidentiary objection will be discussed in the analysis. Should
the objection not be discussed, they are deemed preserved for appeal. 
 
 
Discussion
 
I.               
Preliminary Comments  
 
a.     California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule
3.1350(d)(3)[2]
 
Plaintiff
argues that the motion should be denied for its failure to comply to with the
CRC regarding separate statements (SS) as the SS does not properly cite to the
evidence (e.g., via title, page, and line number). (Opp. pp. 7-8.) 
 
The court
exercises its discretion to overlook the defect for a couple of reasons. 
 
First, out of
fairness, Plaintiff’s third amended complaint (TAC) also violates pleading
standards as set forth in Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 425.10
subdivision (a), subsection (1), which provides that complaint “shall contain .
. . [a] statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary
and concise language.” Here, however, rather than the individual causes of
action delineating the facts that constitute each COA, the COAs
improperly incorporate 91 pages and 146 factual allegations. A civil plaintiff
may, for the sake of convenience, incorporate by reference previous portions of
the pleading for informational purposes only. (Cal-West Nat. Bank v.
Superior Court (1986) 185 Cal. App. 3d 96, 101.)[3]
What is more, the complaint improperly lumps allegations against multiple
defendants. (See e.g., 1st COA [negligence], Complaint p. 71, P148
[“Defendants, and each of them, owed plaintiffs a duty of care which they
breached, in some manner, proximately causing injuries and damages to
plaintiffs as hereinafter alleged.”].) 
Therefore, as
the pleading is not statutorily complaint—and it is the pleading that frames
the issues on an MSJ—the court finds denying an MSJ on otherwise technical
grounds unfair since Plaintiff too has not complied with certain rule(s).  
 
Second, even
if the SS is defective, it adequately puts Plaintiffs on notice of the issues,
facts, and evidence at issue, notably as it the claim is for negligence. (See Nazir
v. United Airlines (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 262-263 [“Separate Statement . . . was designed in a manner
calculated to make it time-consuming and difficult for the court to
ascertain which purportedly disputed facts were actually controverted by
admissible evidence. Thus, the Court would be at liberty to strike or disregard
Plaintiff's opposition in its entirety.”].)[4]
Even if the SS was grossly defective, “the proper response, in most instances,
if the trial court is not prepared to address the merits of the motion in light
of the deficient separate statement, is to give the opposing party an
opportunity to file a proper separate statement....” (Id. at
p. 262.) That would be require a continuation of the hearing until next year,
which is disadvantageous to the parties. 
 
Third, to the
extent that Plaintiff cites to Dept. of
General Services v. Superior Court (1978)
85 Cal.App.3d 273 for its proposition that strict compliance is required, the
language in the case was not in reference to the parties’ overall failure to comply with multiple
components of a summary judgment
motion.[5]
 
All in all, as Plaintiff has provided a robust and thorough opposition,
it indicates that the SS served its purpose:  identify the cause of action, material
facts, and evidence. 
b.    
Addressing All Theories of Liability[6]
Plaintiff, citing to Lopez v. Superior Court (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 705 and Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 954 (Opp. pp. 8-9), argues that Defendant “never addressed
claims of agency, partnership successorship, conspiracy, the operation of the
truck lot on the state highway, or the issue with the sign on the slide gate.”
(Opp. p. 9:24-26.) Indeed, both cases stand for
the proposition that a moving party is not entitled to summary judgment when it
fails to address all theories of liability. 
But alter ego,
agency, or conspiracy claims are not “theories of liability” as used in those
cases. 
Lopez involved a case
wherein the defendant failed to address theory of liability based on claims
that floor was improperly finished and defective when littered with produce,
that it was common for produce to be on the floor, that floor posed
unreasonable danger to customers, and that condition existed for a sufficient
amount of time to be revealed by a reasonable inspection by lessor; in its
motion, lessor only addressed theory that presence of produce on floor at time
of plaintiff's fall was transient condition. Similarly in Swanson, the
defendant did not address the specific accommodation she sought. (Swanson,
supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 970 [“Swanson does not claim the
District failed to grant her leave or any other scheduling accommodation.
Instead, she alleges the District failed to reasonably accommodate her cancer-related
conditions because it refused to provide her the accommodation she
sought after the District decided to move her out of the reading specialist
position she held during the 2007/2008 school year.”].) 
Effectively, both cases, reference to
theories of liability was in reference to other facts that could
constitute the cause of action (i.e., in Lopez, different facts as
to the element of breach and in Swanson, different facts as
to the elements of the failure to accommodate). 
Here, however, the claims do not give
rise to independent torts. For example, the alter ego is not necessarily a cause of action, but
generally refers to a liability doctrine that provides an equitable remedy
to hold the individuals of a corporation liable. (See Greenspan v. LADT, LLC
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508.) Or take conspiracy. As the California
Supreme Court explained in Applied Equipment Corp v. Litton Saudi Arabia
Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514, “Conspiracy is not an independent tort . .
. [i]t allows tort recovery only against a party who already owes the duty and
is not immune from liability based upon applicable substantive tort law
principles.” And this rule—that a moving party need address the facts that
constitute a COA—is the very purpose and function of a summary judgment motion.
“A moving party must negate one or more elements of the cause of
action.” (Opp. p. 2, citing CCP § 437c, subd. (o), italics added.) 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues Defendant did not discuss
the other forms of liability such as the sign on the sliding gate, that is an
attenuated reading of Plaintiff’s own allegations. The TAC alleges: 


As
Defendant MARTIN ANDALUZ ABARCA was operating the tractor 25 trailer, he pulled
it towards a gate opening out to State Route 74 that was supposed to have a
visible "No Left Turn" sign (placed in recognition of the danger
associated with such a maneuver), but that this sign was likely not visible since
it was installed on a sliding gate that, when opened to permit trucks and
other vehicles to exit, slides the warning sign out of view to the left. The
"No Left Turn" sign was an important safety feature given the yard
is/was principally used by trucks given their large size and lack of
maneuverability. As such, the danger of turning left, including the
failure to warn of that danger, was great. But no adequate warning
was visible. (TAC ¶68,
emphasis added.)
 
Thus, the sliding gate is not a
separate allegation that goes to the issue of negligence. Rather, the sentence phrasing
provides that the sliding gate exacerbated the lack of a visible sign
(i.e., the breach), not that the sliding gate was the problem. It is the lack of a sign that is
a material fact that comprises the negligence COA. (See e.g., TAC ¶68:1-2: The "No Left Turn"
sign was an important safety feature; ¶68:3-4
[“no adequate warning was visible]; ¶68:12-13
[“it was necessary that a sign be posted]; ¶68:27-28 [“failure to … place a sign was a substantial factor in
causing the accident”].) And the material facts that “measure whether
the plaintiff has alleged a cause of action.” (Carslen v. Koivumaki (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 879, 884, emphasis added.) 
 
Therefore, as the basis of the
negligence claim against Defendants is predicated upon (i) the alleged configuration
of the driveway (TAC ¶69) and (ii)
the lack of a “no left turn” sign (¶68),
the arguments and evidence must speak to those, which Defendants do. (See also ¶69 [“Defendants … had a duty to warn truckers leaving their
storage lot that only a right turn could safely be made … In addition, it is
hereby further alleged … that the driveway configuration contributed to the
dangerous premises.”].)[7]

 
With
preliminary issues aside, the court will now reach the merits of the motion. 
 
II.            
Merits 
 
Defendants
brings forth the instant motion averring that “Plaintiffs have failed to
establish that the Access Storage Defendants owed a duty to Decedent, or that
any feature of the Access Storage lot contributed to or caused the subject
accident.[8]
They have further failed to establish that it was unsafe, unreasonable, or
illegal to make a left hand turn out of the Access Storage lot.” (Motion p.
7:13-17.)[9]
 
1.    
Overview of Duty
 
As
observed by the state Supreme Court in Vasilenko
v. Grace Family Church (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083: 
 
A plaintiff in a negligence suit must demonstrate a legal
duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. [internal citation omitted].
. . The existence of a duty is a question of law . . . Civil Code
section 1714, subdivision (a) “establishes the general duty of
each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others.” Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit
generally “the otherwise potentially infinite liability which would follow from
every negligent act.... [internal citation omitted] . . . [I]n the absence of a
statutory provision establishing an exception to the general rule of Civil Code
section 1714, courts should create one only where ‘clearly supported by
public policy.’ [internal citations omitted].  
 
In
determining whether courts should create an exception to the general duty to
take ordinary care in the conduct one’s activities, a court examines the policy
considerations as set forth in Rowland v. Christiann (1968) 69 Cal.2d
108 (Rowland). The seminal Rowland factors assess “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the
degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the
connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral
blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future
harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the
community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk
involved.” (Id. at p. 113.) 
With respect to landowners, they are “under no duty to
maintain in a safe condition a public street abutting upon” the landowner's
property unless the landowner created the danger. [internal citations
omitted]. The reason for this rule is that a landowner generally has no right
to control another's property, including streets owned and maintained by the
government. [internal citation omitted]. (Id. at p. 1084.) That said,
should dangerous conditions exist on the landowner’s premises that the
landowner controlled, a landowner can be liable for injury occurring
off-premises on an abutting public street. (Id. at p. 1092, citing Barnes
v. Black (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1473 (Barnes), Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32 (Annocki). 
2.    
Relevant Cases 
As to
the issue of duty, Defendants heavily rely upon Vasilenko v. Grace Family
Church (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077 and Plaintiffs heavily rely upon Annocki v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32. Both deem the other
parties’ case distinguishable. 
 
In Vasilenko,
a plaintiff was struck by a car when he crossed a public street between the
main premises of the church and the church’s overflow parking area. (Id., at
p. 1081, emphasis added.) There, the plaintiff argued that the church owed him
a duty of care to assist him in safely crossing the public street. (Ibid.)
More specifically, as relevant here regarding sign postage, the
plaintiff also argued that the church should have posted a sign to warn of the
danger of cross the street. (Id. at p. 1088.) In response, the Vasilenko
rejected the argument because “the danger
posed by crossing a public street midblock is obvious, and there is ordinarily
no duty to warn of obvious dangers.” (Ibid. citing to Osborn v.
Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 119.) 
 
Here, however, there is no obvious “obvious” risk. In
fact, whereas in Vasilenko the church/landowner maintain a parking lot
that required invitees to cross the street to reach its premises (id.
at p. 1085), here, the driver was not required to make a left turn;
he could have made a right turn.[10]

 
On the other hand, Annocki provides strikingly similar
facts. In Annocki, the decedent was struck by a driver exiting a part
lot. (Annocki, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 34.) The decedents’ parents
(plaintiffs) alleged that the driver was “confused when exiting the parking lot
and attempted to make a left-hand turn instead of a right-hand turn.” (Ibid.)
“Plaintiffs alleged that defendant knew, or should have known in the exercise
of reasonable care, that its parking lot and driveway were designed and in
such condition as to create a danger of decreased visibility of the adjacent
highway. Plaintiffs further alleged defendant knew of its patrons' difficulties
in safely navigating and exiting [the restaurant] parking lot, failed to
adequately provide signage directing patrons to the safest exit and failed to
provide signage that only right turns could be made onto the adjacent highway.”
(Id. at pp. 34-35.) In reversing the trial court’s sustaining the
demurrer without leave to amend, the appellate court determined that plaintiffs
have established that “although defendant did not and could not control
conditions on the highway, defendant had a duty to warn patrons leaving the
restaurant that only a right turn could safely be made from the restaurant's
exits.” (Id. at p. 39, emphasis added.) In concluding so, the court focused
the fact that “[t]he traffic dividers on the highway made a left turn
out of the parking lot impossible” even more so at night when a patron
might be aware of its presence. (Id. at p. 38, emphasis added).[11]

 
Similarly, the TAC
alleges that only a right turn can safely be made (¶68), suggesting it was impossible or improbable to make a left
turn. With that, the court will turn to the evidence to determine whether it
was safe to make a left turn onto SR 74. 
 
a.     Was it Safe to Make a Left Turn (i.e.,
the Material Fact)? 
 
i.                
Defendants’ Evidentiary Burden 
 
Defendants
argue (Motion p. 8) and provide evidence that: 
 
-       
It is
legal and safe to make a left hand turn out of the Access Storage driveway and
onto State Road 74 (SS No. 15)
-       
A
vehicle approaching the Access Storage driveway heading eastbound would have a
minimum sight-distance of 750 feet, which exceeds Caltrans required sight
distance for a safe left turn (SS No. 16) 
-       
The
driver of a commercial tractor trailer would have an even greater sight
distance due to their height from the road. (SS No. 17) 
-       
Prior to
the subject accident, there was only one other similar collision within 50-feet
of the subject accident location, which occurred on June 15, 2016, and involved
only minor injuries. (SS No. 17).
 
Specifically,
Defendants rely upon the expert declaration of Rock Miller. Miller is a
“traffic engineering consultant specializing in traffic safety, traffic
controls, and enhancement of urban street and highway facilities.” (Miller
Decl., ¶1.) He is a registered
Professional Civil Engineer and a Professional Traffic Engineer. (Ibid.)

 
“Based
upon [his] inspection of the sight distance and collision history, [he] finds
no condition that left turns onto Route 74 are unsafe when used by drivers
using reasonable and due care.” (Miller Decl., ¶32, 10:12-13.) 
 
Therefore,
with Miller’s showing, Defendants would satisfy their evidentiary burden that
as making a left turn was possible and was safe.  
 
The
burden would shift to Plaintiff. 
 
ii.              
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Burden 
 
First,
Plaintiffs object to the Rock Miller’s declaration on the grounds that it lacks
foundation, is improper expert testimony, and is based upon hearsay. As more explicitly laid out in
opposition, “the opinion of Rock Miller on questions of duty is inadmissible.
Likewise, his opinions on fault and reconstruction lack foundation since he
admits he is not an accident reconstruction expert, rather only a traffic
engineer.” (Opp. p. 8:18-20.) 
 
Here,
the objections to Miller’s declaration are OVERRULEDU: Miller has “worked on a large
variety of transportation projects, including evaluating the safety of streets
and highways, traffic impact analysis, design of streets, interchanges, and
intersections, complex transportation studies, and neighborhood traffic
management projects.” (Miller Decl., ¶2.)
Thus, while his formal credentials may not be “accident reconstruction expert”
or while he may not hold a doctorate in “accident reconstruction,” the nature
of his work and expertise provides him with the qualifications to make
conclusions about the safety of the turning left. Tellingly that formal credentials in accident
reconstruction are not required is that two of Plaintiff’s experts
(Weston S. Pringle, III (Plaintiff’s Evidence, Volume II, Ex. 3) and Carl Beels
(Ex. 6) do not hold formal credentials in accident reconstruction. (Only
Brad P. Avrit is qualified as an accident reconstruction expert. (Evidence,
Volume II, Ex. 4, ¶4:27-28.)[12]
 
Additionally, Miller’s declaration adequately lays
forth the information. (See e.g., Miller Decl., ¶5.) His assessment also included a review
of the incident site and vicinity. (Miller
Decl., ¶6.) 
 
Lastly, the Sanchez objection is without
merit. (Reply p. 7.) People v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665 involved testimonial hearsay,
which implicates the Confrontation Clause. This is a civil not a criminal case.

 
Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Plaintiff admissible evidence to rebut the contention that it was safe to make
a left turn.[13] Plaintiffs’ evidence provides that: 
 
-       
“Turning
left, particularly with a large tractor trailer combination out of the SR74
gate onto a busy state highway, presents a hazardous maneuver
that eventually would be likely to cause an accident resulting in
serious injury or death. Unfortunately, this is exactly what occurred in this
case.” (Plaintiff’s Evidence, Volume II, Ex. 4 [Beels Decl.], ¶9, emphasis added.) 
 
-       
“[A]
left turn out of the SR74 entrance/exit 5 could not be safely made by
such vehicles, particularly at night, despite an alleged low accident history
on SWTRS.” (Avrit Decl., ¶11, emphasis
added.) 
 
-       
“It
does not appear safe to make a left turn out of the Access Storage
lot and certainly not for vehicles such as large tractor trailer trucks.”
(Pringle Decl., There is nothing illegal about installing such a sign, emphasis added.)
 
To the extent that Defendants argue it had no
authority to prohibit left turns from the driveway as Caltrans is responsible
for traffic controls on SR74 (Motion p. 8, citing to SS No. 14, citing Miller
Decl., ¶¶33-34), Plaintiffs provide countering evidence. (See (Pringle Decl., ¶17 [“[N]o matter who owns the land,
and perhaps it is both Caltrans and the Access Storage lot owners, that a special
use is being made of that area by the driveway. If it is solely Caltrans
property then there may be a requirement to go to Caltrans to make changes to
the driveway, but those changes appear to be warranted for the Access Storage
lot operator in this case. Yet despite the passage of substantial time, I see
no evidence that anyone from Access Storage or Valerie Gersch applied to make
the driveway safer. This would certainly not be Caltrans' responsibility,
nor would Caltrans have an interest in doing so. The responsibility would like
squarely with the Access Storage lot owner and operator who I understand are
the Access Storage lot and Valerie Gersch defendants.”]; see also Avrit Decl., ¶26 [“There is nothing illegal about
installing such a sign.”].) (And in fact, Defendants did install a sign.) 
 
b.    
Safety is Not Equivalent to Foreseeability 
 
Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the analysis does not end with whether it was safe to
make the turn but whether the land was maintained in such a way (i.e., its
configuration) that exposed a person to unreasonable risk. (Opp. p. 12,
citing Annock, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 38, citing Barnes, supra,
71 Cal.App.4th at p. 1479 [“[T]he duty of care encompasses a duty to avoid
exposing persons to risks of injury that occur off site if the
landowner’s property is maintained in such a manner as to expose
persons to an unreasonable risk of injury offsite.”[14]

 
Defendants
argue that, “[t]here are no allegations in the complaint that the Access
Storage property was configured in such a way to increase the risks associated
with making a left-hand turn, merely that the property was not configured in
such a way to prevent or discourage such turns.” (Motion p. 16:18-20.) Indeed,
the TAC alleges: 
 
The
failure to post an adequate warning sign warning of the danger of left turns,
the impossibility of making a left turn safely, as well as the failure to
reconfigure the driveway in such a manner so as to prevent or strongly
discourage left turns by large trucks . . . were substantial factors in
encouraging and permitting the left turning . . . to make a dangerous turn
which resulted in the collision that took plaintiffs’ sons life. These
defendants could have, and should have, placed an adequate warning and
reconfigure the driveway so as to re-route traffic exiting the storage lot such
that only a right turn onto SR 74 could be made.
 
(Complaint
¶69, pp. 13-14.) 
 
But the
configuration need not be one of a physical layout of the exit, as Defendants
seem to suggest
(i.e., something wrong with the exit itself). In Barnes, a child was
killed by an automobile when the tricycle he was riding veered off the private sidewalk
of the apartment complex and rolled down the steep driveway adjacent to the
sidewalk that led a busy public street. Similar to the argument here, there,
the defendant/apartment complex argued it did not owe a duty of care to protect its tenants from an
unreasonable risk of injury off the premises on a public street over which it
has no control. (Id. at p. 1478.) In rejecting the argument, the Barnes
court, analyzing the Rowland factors, focused on the evidence that
the injury was a result of his child being ejected from defendant’s premises by
its dangerous configuration. (Id. at p. 1480.) Effectively, a negligent configuration can be
deemed one wherein the interaction between the private premise and the
public premise creates a foreseeable injury. 
 
Here,
however, while it is foreseeable that drivers will pass by the subject premises
on State Road 74, and the risk of car accidents is likewise ubiquitous, this
cannot be sufficient to create a special relationship between Decedent and
Defendants. And to the
extent that there is evidence about foreseeability, it is only provided by
Miller. 
 
The
report summarized 31 collisions total within the ten-year period for collisions
located up to ¼ mile from the Ethanac Road intersection. I noted that 17 of the
31 collisions occurred after the date of the subject collision so they would be
unknown when the collision occurred. I prepared an analysis to identify the
specific location of each collision. I determined that there was only one prior
incident at or within 50 feet of the exact location where the subject incident
occurred. The nearby incident occurred on 6/15/16 at 5:15 am and was located 10
feet from the subject collision. The nearby collision also involved a truck
exiting the driveway and an approaching vehicle, but the injuries were limited
to complaints of pain with no visible injuries. This is typical of a low-speed
collision. (Miller Decl., ¶17,
6:23-7:4.) 
Thus,
as to foreseeability (i.e., the likelihood of an occurrence)[15]
of the risk (i.e., accident) happening, there was only one prior similar
collision within 50-foot of the subject accident that occurred in 2016 and
resulted in minor injuries (SS No. 18) and the collision rate for all the
incidents reported at the subject driveway is approximately 0.036 per million
vehicle miles. (SS No. 19.) This evidence is otherwise undisputed, per
Plaintiff’s response to Defendants’ SS. With one previous accident and a
low collision rate, the danger of a fatal collision in turning left onto
SR74 was unsafe but not foreseeable. Absent foreseeability, there can be no exception to the general duty to
exercise ordinary care articulated by section 1714. Holding otherwise would
create a special relationship between every user of a road and the owner of an
adjacent premise. (See Motion p. 13, citing Medina v. Hillshore Partners (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 477, 483 [“The court declined to expand premises liability
principles so as to require owners to assume the duty of the sovereignty to
police public areas near, but not on, their premises. The same principle
applies here. Landowner had no duty to police the sidewalk and street in front
of the apartment complex.”].) 
Conclusion 
In sum, Plaintiffs
maintain that there are pending evidentiary issues as to whether the gate was
broken, whether it was safe to turn left on SR74 out of the lot, whether the
driveway was in disrepair, whether the alternate exit on Ethanac should have
been used, whether the decedent braked, whether the decedent took evasive
action, whether the actions and inactions of the defendants increased the risk
of an accident on the abutting state highway, and much more. (Opp. p. 20.) But what Plaintiffs have not
done, despite the requirement as presented in their cited cases, is present
evidence as to foreseeability. The fundamental question of law presented
in this motion is whether it was foreseeable that making a left-turn on to SR74
would result in a similar injury. Defendants provided evidence (i.e.,
statistics) showing not whereas Plaintiffs’ evidence fell silent, meaning they
did not satisfy their evidentiary burden. Without a duty, the negligence COA
fails. 
Based
on the foregoing, the motion is granted in its entirety (including as to the
wrongful death COA). 
 
 
 
 
 
 


