


[1] Due to the numerous
filings in this case, the procedural history has been shortened.  
                        


[2] The Reply does not
address this argument. 
 


[3] Though the court
acknowledges that for this motion, Plaintiff has marked on the TAC which
allegations are relevant. 
 


[4] In fact, it is
Plaintiff’s SS that has overwhelmed the court, as noted by Defendant in Reply.
Plaintiff has provided thousands of pages of evidence, convoluting the one
issue in this motion: did Defendant owe a duty to decedent and, if
so, did that breach cause decedent’s death. 
 


[5] (Id.
at p. 283 [“Both parties are wide of the mark. First, in the trial
court the real parties made no competent showing on the summary judgment motion
that the MBE participation plan was not the product of legislative hearings or
based upon precedent findings of discrimination. The summary judgment motion
relied generally upon the “pleadings, records and papers on file” in the
action. No declarations or affidavits were filed in conjunction with the
summary judgment motion nor was any other evidence produced.5 Moreover
the trial judge's attention was not directed specifically to any place in
the voluminous record in the trial court where the absence of precedent
legislative findings was shown, competently or otherwise.6 It
is academic that the burden is on the party moving for summary judgment;
because of the drastic nature of the remedy sought, he is held to strict
compliance with the procedural requisites.”].)
 


[6] Defendants do not
meanginfully address this argument.


[7] Further evidencing
the point that the sliding gate is not a separate, material fact giving
rise to an alleged failure to warn is that the allegation regarding the
configuration problem is explicitly (by use of the conjunction “in addition” made
a separate form of breach. (TAC ¶68 [“In
addition, the exit to the truck yard itself was negligently· and
improperly designed and maintained. It could have been oriented or re-oriented
. . . Because the owners and operators of the truck stop perceived the danger
they had a duty to properly warn or to re-orient the
driveway or both, the breach of which was a substantial factor in causing the
death of the decedent and plaintiffs' damages because they did neither.”],
emphasis and underline added.) Therefore, as Plaintiff has not generally
pleaded negligence (as evidence by pleading those two specific acts,
Plaintiff’s reliance upon Jackson v. Hardy (1945) 70 Cal.App.2d 6, 13
for the proposition that the plaintiff is not limited to specific acts is
inapposite. 
 


[8] Causation, unlike
duty, was not adequately addressed in the motion, Reply, nor evidence. Thus,
the issue is waived. 
 


[9] Defendants did not
own the Access Storage lot at the time of the incident. (SS No. 6.) Rather,
Defendants leased the property from the Gersch Defendant. 
 


[10] Although Plaintiff’s
expert, Brad Avrit, states that “according to the evidence and testimony, on
the date of the accident the Ethanac Road entrance/exit was closed because the
parcel next to it was exclusively subleased to another individual. That meant
that the SR74 entrance/exit located on a busy highway was the only way in and
out of the Access Storage lot which customers such as defendants Erick's
Transportation and Martin Andaluz Abarca could use.” (Avrit Decl., ¶10.) 
 


[11] Defendants in Reply
aver Annocki is inapplicable
because there “the layout of the parking lot itself obscured the view of the
roadway and prevented vehicles exiting the premises from observing that it was
impossible to make a left-hand turn from the subject driveway (as making a left
would place the vehicle into oncoming traffic).” (Reply p. 10:16-19.) But the Annocki
court did not focus on the configuration of the parking lot; rather the
court focused on the dangerous conditions of the
highway. (Id. at p. 38.)
 


[12] The court focuses on
these three individuals as they referenced in response to Defendants’ SS. 
 


[13] To the extent
Defendants have filed objections to some of this evidence, the objections are
conclusory. Thus, absent an analysis, the court is uncertain how the experts’
conclusions are improper expert testimony. (See Evidentiary Objections in
Support of Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment.) (See Nazir, supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at p. 255-256 [“Some of
the sustained objections did
not even assert any basis for the objection! . . . 
The objection to
the first paragraph was “lacks foundation.” The objections to the other
three paragraphs were more grandiose: “Plaintiff's statement lacks foundation,
is speculative, inserts improper opinion, argument, and conclusion (instead
of evidentiary fact)
and is therefore inadmissible [internal
citations omitted]. Can this be serious? Can counsel see themselves rising
at trial with those objections while plaintiff is testifying before a jury?”].)
 Therefore, Defendants’ objections
are OVERRULED.  
 


[14] To the extent that Plaintiff argues
that “a property owner's duty of reasonable care includes a duty to make its
entrance and exit safe for those using it and those on the adjacent road who
are reasonably affected by it” (Opp. p. 13, citing See Schwartz v. Helms
Bakery Limited (1967) 67 Cal.2d 232, 239 [property owner's duty of
reasonable care in maintaining premises encompasses "such means of ingress
and egress as a customer may reasonably be expected to use"]; Gerard v.
Wilson Holding Co. (1947) 79 Cal.App.2d 553, 555 [same]), Schwartz is
distinguishable in that it involved the duty owed to an invitee; here,
the decedent was not an invitee.  
 


[15]  See Hernandez v. Jensen (2021)
61 Cal.App.5th 1056, 1065 [“For purposes of duty analysis, “‘foreseeability is
not to be measured by what is more probable than not, but includes whatever is
likely enough in the setting of modern life that a reasonably thoughtful
[person] would take account of it in guiding practical conduct.” ... [I]t is
settled that what is required to be foreseeable is the general character of the
event or harm—e.g., being struck by a car while standing in a phone
booth—not its precise nature or manner of occurrence.’” 

