  Case Number:  23CMCV00831    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  A  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NORMA WILSON,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
NAILS
   ON FLEEK et al.,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23CMCV00831
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 17, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 06/06/2023
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
This is an assault case. Plaintiff Norma Wilson
(“Plaintiff”) alleges in the complaint that an unknown employee (“Doe”) of
defendant Nails on Fleek (“Nails”) aggressively touched and tugged on
Plaintiff’s arm despite being asked to stop, resulting in injuries to
Plaintiff. The complaint alleges causes of action for assault, battery, and
intentional infliction of emotional distress against Doe. The complaint alleges
a cause of action for negligence against all defendants and a cause of action
for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention against Nails.
Nails moves for an order compelling deposition of
Plaintiff, on the grounds that Plaintiff did not appear for a deposition set
for November 6, 2024. Nails subsequently attempted to confer with Plaintiff’s
counsel to arrange a new date for Plaintiff’s deposition, but did not receive a
response. Nails also requests sanctions and costs in the amount of $665.  Plaintiff filed a late opposition to the
motion on December 16, 2024, which the court declines to consider.
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, where
a party or party-affiliated deponent fails to appear for a noticed deposition
without having served a valid objection, the noticing party may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony and the production of
any document or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
If such a motion is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction in favor of the noticing party and against the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).) The burden is on the party opposing sanctions to show substantial
justification. (Doe v. United States Swimming, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 1424, 1436.)
On October 2, 2024, Nails served a notice of
deposition on Plaintiff for a deposition scheduled for October 23, 2024.
(Powers Decl. ¶ 3; Ex. A.) Plaintiff requested to reschedule the deposition due
to a scheduling conflict, and later due to complications from surgery, but did
not provide alternative dates either before or after October 23, 2024;
nonetheless, Nails canceled the October 23 deposition, and on October 25, 2024 rescheduled
it for November 6, 2024. (Powers Decl. ¶¶ 4-8.) On November 5, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email advising that she just had surgery and was having severe
complications, but did not serve objections. (Powers Decl. ¶ 9; Ex. D.) Nails
did not reschedule the deposition, and on November 6, 2024, neither Plaintiff
nor her counsel appeared for deposition. (Powers Decl. ¶ 10; Ex. E.) On
November 8, 2024, Nails again attempted to confer with Plaintiff concerning
available dates for the deposition, but did not receive a response by the time
of the filing of the instant motion on November 15, 2024. (Powers Decl. ¶ 11.)  
On November 27, 2024, twelve days after the instant
motion was filed, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Change of Handling Attorney,
advising that attorney Yasmeh had left Downtown LA Law Group.  
Nails requests an order compelling Plaintiff
to appear for deposition, and an order awarding $665 in monetary sanctions
jointly and severally against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, Downtown LA
Law Group and former counsel Delina Yasmeh. 
This sum is comprised of reimbursement for the court reporter’s fee of
$255, a filing fee of $60, and Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $175 for
two hours. Despite having been served with the motion seeking
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Ms. Yasmeh, neither Ms. Yasmeh nor Mr.
Hankins or any other attorney from Downtown L.A. Law Group filed a timely opposition
to the motion, or a declaration setting forth any reasons why monetary sanctions
should not be awarded as requested in the motion.  Moreover, the belated opposition asserts
facts that are not supported by a sworn declaration with respect to the reasons
for Plaintiff’s failure to appear for deposition.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the record as presented
in the moving papers and declaration of counsel submitted therewith sufficiently
establishes that Plaintiff and her counsel acted with substantial justification
in failing to appear for the November 6 deposition, thereby making the
imposition of monetary sanctions unjust. 
Plaintiff’s counsel notified counsel for defendant the day before the November
6 deposition that she was having severe complications from surgery.  This was sufficient notice of the basis for
an inability to appear at the deposition the following day, so as to trigger counsel
for defendant’s duty under the Los Angeles Superior Court Guidelines for Civility
in Litigation. 
Appendix 3.A(a)(2) of the LASC Local Rules provides
that “[a]fter a first extension, any additional requests for time should be
dealt with by balancing the need for expedition against the deference one
should ordinarily give to an opponent’s schedule of professional and personal
engagements, the reasonableness of the length of extension requested…”  Section 3.A(e)(2) provides, “[i]n scheduling
depositions, reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating
schedules of opposing counsel and of the deponent, where it is possible to do
so without prejudicing the client’s rights.” 

Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff
to submit to deposition on January 3, 2025, or alternatively before January 31,
2025 (nearly three months after the November 6 deposition).  Thus, it is apparent that there was and is no
pressing need for expedition, either on November 6 or today.  Based upon counsel’s November 5, 2024 representation
as an officer of the court that she was having “serious complications” from
surgery, a reasonable delay to accommodate Plaintiff’s counsel’s recovery from surgery
was warranted under 3.A(a)(2) and (e)(2), and would not have prejudiced Defendant.

Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Nails’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition, but
denies the request for monetary sanctions.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer on
or before December 20, 2024 to decide on a mutually agreeable date on or before
January 31, 2025 on which Plaintiff’s deposition shall proceed. 

Defendant is ordered to give notice. 
DATED: December 17, 2024
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court