 Case Number:  23CMCV01544    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AL CORONADO,
                    Plaintiffs, 
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23CMCV01544
 [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING  IN PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON
  MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 17, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 09/25/2023
TRIAL:
  10/29/2025
 



 
1.    
Background
This is a lemon law case. Plaintiff Al Coronado
(“Plaintiff”) alleges in the complaint that he purchased a 2023 Honda Passport
with the VIN number 5FNYF8H69PB019828 (the “Vehicle”), for which defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) issued a written warranty
establishing warranty and repair obligations. Plaintiff alleges that the
Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to
warranty and developed other series defects and nonconformities.
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for:
(1)  Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of express
warranty;
(2)  Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of implied
warranty; and,
(3)  Violation of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2(b).
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff served a Notice of
Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable on Defendant, containing
Requests for Production of Documents. The deposition was noticed for February
12, 2024. On February 6, 2024, Defendant served its objections to the Notice of
Deposition and Request for Production.
On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff served an Amended
Notice of Deposition with Requests for Production of Documents on Defendant,
noticing the deposition for October 9, 2024. On October 4, 2024, Defendant
served its objections to the Amended Notice of Deposition.
On October 8, 2024, Plaintiff served a Second Amended
Notice of Deposition with Requests for Production of Documents on Defendant, noticing
the deposition for October 22, 2024. On October 18, 2024, Defendant served its
objections to the Second Amended Notice of Deposition.
2.    
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of
Documents
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on November 18,
2024, on the grounds that Defendant has failed to provide a witness as noticed
and has not proffered all of the responsive documents to the Request for
Production. Plaintiff requests sanctions and an order waiving Defendant’s
objections and compelling Defendant to product a qualified Person Most
Knowledgeable (“PMK”) witness and all responsive documents. Plaintiff contends
that the testimony and documents that he seeks are relevant to whether
Defendant complied with the Song-Beverly Act. Plaintiff also contends that
Defendant’s objections are boilerplate.
In opposition, Defendant contends that it has, in meet
and confers, offered dates on which its PMK will be available for deposition,
which Plaintiff has rejected. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s counsel is
abusing the discovery process because Plaintiff’s counsel is aware that
Defendant’s PMK witnesses are heavily impacted with numerous depositions and
trials, and Plaintiff’s counsel therefore regularly makes unilateral demands
for deposition on imminently upcoming dates then moves to compel. Defendant further
argues that Plaintiff’s Requests for Production seek information that is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and
therefore not discoverable.
In reply, Plaintiff argues that the proffered
deposition date in June 2025 would require Plaintiff to wait eighteen months
from the date of Plaintiff’s initial notice of deposition to depose Defendant’s
PMK, which demonstrates a lack of good faith and would unduly prolong the
resolution of the matter. Plaintiff also contends that the documents he
requests are discoverable because they are probative of nonconformities within
the Vehicle, Defendant’s knowledge of such nonconformities, and technical
information required to obtain reliable expert opinion testimony.
3.    
Motion
to Compel Discovery Standards
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, where
a party or party-affiliated deponent fails to appear for a noticed deposition
without having served a valid objection, the noticing party may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony and the production of
any document or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. If an
objection is made and served at least three calendar days before the deposition
date, any subsequent deposition shall not be used against the objecting party
if the party did not attend the deposition and the court determines that the
objection was valid. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (b).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides
that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method . . . , the court, after notice to any affected party, person,
or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose . . . [monetary,
issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process . . . .” Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, but is
not limited to, making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery. 
4.     Discussion
          a. Motion to Compel Deposition
In Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s
notices of deposition, Defendant objected to Plaintiff’s unilateral selection
of the deposition date and time, stating that neither the deponent nor
Defendant’s counsel is available on the selected date and time. Defendant’s
responses to Plaintiff’s three notices of deposition were identical. During
meet and confer efforts, Defendant offered June 17, 2025 and June 18, 2025 as
potential deposition dates for Defendant’s PMK, which Plaintiff rejected as too
late. Defendant and Defendant’s PMK did not appear at any of Plaintiff’s
noticed depositions.
June 17, 2025 and June 18, 2025 are not
reasonable deposition dates, considering that Plaintiff first served a notice
of deposition for Defendant’s PMK on January 26, 2024, and trial is set for October
29, 2025. These deposition dates would delay deposition of Defendant’s PMK for almost
eighteen months from Plaintiff’s first notice of deposition. In its objections,
Defendant expressed an intention to meet and confer to agree upon a mutually
convenient deposition date; however, in all meet and confer efforts, Defendant
offered and reiterated only the June 2025 dates. (Maugeri II Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) Defendant
did not adequately cooperate with rescheduling the deposition to a reasonable
and mutually convenient date, and Defendant’s objection to the date of the
deposition is therefore improper and overruled.
Defendant also objected that the proposed
deposition would be unduly burdensome and oppressive. Defendant has stated in a
declaration to this motion that the demand for depositions in California
warranty litigation exceeds deponent availability. (Pacheco Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) This
is not a sufficient basis to establish that a particular deposition request
would be unduly burdensome and oppressive, as it would permit Defendant to object
to any deposition request as unduly burdensome and oppressive.
Defendant additionally objected to the matters
on which Defendant’s PMK is to be examined. After consideration of Defendant’s
objections, the court denies the motion to compel deposition matters for examination
30 and 32 (improper contention questions), and 34 (duplicative). The court
grants the motion as to the remaining categories, with the exception that
categories 2, 16, 18-29 are limited to the period starting with the date of
purchase of the subject vehicle to the present. 
          b. Motion to Compel Responses to
Requests for Production
All of Defendant’s objections to each request
in Plaintiff’s Requests for Production are identical, constituting the
following:
AHM objects to this request as vague,
ambiguous, and overly broad. AHM further objects to this request to the extent
it may be interpreted to be asking for communications between AHM and its
employees and AHM's legal counsel that is protected by the attorney-client
privilege. In addition, AHM objects to this request as calling for information
that is confidential, commercially sensitive, and proprietary or trade secret.
The request is vague and overbroad because the term “YOU”/“YOUR” as defined
includes third parties such as dealerships, and those who “represent themselves
to be affiliated with, or work for, AHM.” AHM further objects to this request
as it calls for a legal conclusion. AHM further objections to the request
because is misleading and argumentative.
(Maugeri Decl. Ex. B.)
After consideration of Defendant’s objections,
the court grants the motion as to requests for production 1, 3-9 and 15. The
court grants the motion as to requests 2, and 11-14, but will limit the scope
of definition of “DOCUMENTS,” contained with RFP No. 2, to exclude a search of
internal emails in order to avoid undue burden on Defendant.  The court grants the motion as to request 10
to the extent it calls for production of non-privileged responsive documents,
and Defendant is ordered to produce a privilege log for any documents withheld
that are responsive to this request or any other requests for which the motion
is granted.  The court denies the motion
as to requests 16 and 17 as overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, and as
to 16 the request calls for attorney-work product.
c. Sanctions
Plaintiff has requested
sanctions against Defendant in connection with the instant motion. However,
Plaintiff has not informed the court of an amount of money that he desires be
granted in sanctions, and has therefore not met his burden. The court therefore
denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.

5.     Conclusion 
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition and
GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel request for production, as set
forth herein. The court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
Parties are
ordered to meet and confer no later than December 31, 2024 in order to
determine a mutually agreeable date for deposition of Defendant’s PMK, subject
to the court’s rulings on deposition categories and requests for production.
The deposition shall take place no later than February 18, 2025.
 

Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED: December 17, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court