 Case Number:  24CMCP00156    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  A  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



In
  Re Petition of:
 
ASSET
   SECURITY CONSULTING, LLC,
                    Petitioner
(Real Party in Interest:
  KAIWANN KING) 
 
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMCP00156
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING PETITION FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT
  PAYMENT RIGHTS
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 17, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
PETITION
  FILED: 10/16/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is a petition for transfer of structured
settlement payment rights (the “Petition”). The real party in interest, Kaiwann
King, wishes to transfer some portion of their settlement rights to Asset
Security Consulting, LLC (“Petitioner”). 
2.    
Petition
for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights Standards
Insurance Code section 10139.5 requires the direct or
indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights to be approved in
advance in a final court order. (Ins. Code, §10139.6, subd. (a).) In its order,
the Court must make the following express, written findings:
“(1) The transfer is in the best interest of the
payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents.
(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the
transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and
has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the
opportunity to receive the advice.
(3) The transferee has complied with the notification
requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has
provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and
the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.
(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable
statute or the order of any court or other government authority.
(5) The payee understands the terms of the transfer
agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required
by Section 10136.
(6) The payee understands and does not wish to
exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.”
(Ibid.)
When determining whether the proposed transfer is in
the payee’s best interest, taking into account the welfare and support of the
payee’s dependents, the Court must consider the totality of the circumstances,
including, but not limited to, all of the following factors:
“… (4) The terms of the transaction, including whether
the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of
his or her future payments.
… (8) Whether the payee has other means of income or
support, aside from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of
the proposed transfer, sufficient to meet the payee's future financial
obligations for maintenance and support of the payee's dependents, specifically
including, but not limited to, the payee's child support obligations, if any.
The payee shall disclose to the transferee and the court his or her
court-ordered child support or maintenance obligations for the court's
consideration.
(9) Whether the financial terms of the transaction,
including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the
payee, the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the
transferee, the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives
to the payee to achieve the payee's stated objectives, are fair and reasonable.
(10) Whether the payee completed previous transactions
involving the payee's structured settlement payments and the timing and size of
the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous
transaction.
…”
(Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (b).)
3.     Discussion

Here, the Petition is partially censored,
obscuring all information concerning the amount of the transfer or the amount
of settlement rights currently possessed by Kaiwann King or to be possessed
after the transfer. The court cannot reasonably make a determination of whether
the transfer is in Kaiwann King’s best interest without this information.  Nor can the court ascertain whether all supporting
documents were executed by Kaiwann King in light of the redactions of the
signatures on all documents.  Moreover, a
First Amended Verified Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured
Settlement Payment Rights was filed on November 6, 2024, after the filing of
the October 23, 2024 Notice of Motion for Order Approving Petition for Approval
For Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights, thereby rendering the
instant motion moot.  Finally, no proof
of service of the October 23, 2024 Notice of Motion for Order Approving
Petition for Approval For Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights on Real
Party in Interest/payee Kaiwann King has been filed.
4.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE the Petition.

Petitioner is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
DATED: December 17, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court