 Case Number:  24TRCV00353    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  P MOTION FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGSThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition papers were filed.RULINGDefendant Mercury Mission Systems, LLC’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDArmida Burton, individually, and on behalf of aggrieved employees pursuant to the California Private Attorney Generals Act, commenced this action on January 31, 2024, by filing a Complaint against Mercury Mission Systems, LLC for violation of California Labor Code sections 2699, et seq (the “PAGA Action”).On May 22, 2024, defendant filed the instant motion to stay action on the ground that plaintiff filed a substantially identical matter entitled Armida Burton v. Mercury Mission Systems, LLC, Los Angeles County Superior Court No. 24STCV02628 (the “Class Action”). No opposition has been filed by plaintiff, and defendant filed a notice of non-opposition on July 11, 2024.JUDICIAL NOTICEDefendant requests that this Court take judicial notice of: The Complaint filed on January 31, 2024, in the action entitled Armida Burton v. Mercury Mission Systems, LLC, Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 24STCV02628. The request is granted pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452, subdivision (d).LEGAL AUTHORITY“Granting a stay in a case where the issues in two actions are substantially identical [citation] is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. ‘In exercising its discretion the court should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions. It should also consider whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.’ [Citations.]” (Thomson v. Cont’l Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 746-747.)DISCUSSIONDefendant contends that the PAGA Action should be stayed for the following reasons: (1) the PAGA Action is substantially similar to the Class Action; (2) defendant will be unfairly burdened if a stay is not granted; (3) there is a risk of conflict if both actions proceed simultaneously; (4) it is in the employee’s best interest for the PAGA Action to be stayed; and (5) the public interest favors a stay.The Court finds that staying the PAGA Action is warranted. The Court finds that sufficient similarities exist between the PAGA Action and the Class Action such that staying the instant action would be in the interest of judicial economy. The Court is persuaded by Defendant’s arguments specifically regarding the similarities of the cases—both cases allege identical violations based on the same set of alleged facts, and the parties are the same. (Compl.; RJN, Ex. 1.) Further, the motion is unopposed.For these reasons, defendant’s motion is GRANTED.CONCLUSIONDefendant Mercury Mission Systems, LLC’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings is GRANTED.The PAGA Action is stayed pending the outcome of the Class Action.