  Case Number:  23TRCV02248    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Compel ArbitrationThe court considered the moving papers, opposition and reply.RULINGDefendant American Honda Motor Company’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs leased a new 2020 Honda Civic on May 24, 2020. Plaintiff alleges the vehicle suffered from various defects and nonconformities that revealed themselves within the applicable express warranty period. Plaintiff alleges Defendant was obligated under the Song Beverly Act to promptly offer to repurchase or replace the vehicle after a reasonable number of unsuccessful repair attempts. Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to do so.On July 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Company alleging claims under the Song Beverly Act. Plaintiff alleges (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d); (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b); (3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3); (4) breach of the implied warranty of habitability.LEGAL AUTHORITYUnder California and federal law, public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act or the Federal Arbitration Act, courts resolve doubt about an arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9; Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Associates (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72 (“California law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that apply to contracts in general.”).) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law, ‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’” (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) A petition to compel arbitration must allege both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the controversy, and that a party to that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (Id..)“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’” (Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59 (Avery), quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2).) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id., at p. 59.)Generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Id.; see also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) “In these summary proceedings the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Avery, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at p. 59; accord Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)DISCUSSION1. Applicable Arbitration Agreement ExistsDefendant Honda relies on the arbitration agreement contained in the Lease Agreement entered into between Plaintiff and non-party Carson Honda. (Carlson Dec., Ex. 1, Closed End Lease (the “Lease Agreement”).) The Lease Agreement contains an arbitration provision, which states as follows: “YOU and HONDA agree and acknowledge that this Lease affects interstate commerce and the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies. By signing the Arbitration Consent, YOU [plaintiff] elect to have disputes resolved by arbitration. YOU, HONDA, or any involved third party may pursue a Claim. “Claim” means any dispute between YOU, HONDA, or any involved third party relating to your account, this Lease or our relationship, including any application, the Vehicle, its performance and any representations, omissions or warranties.” (Id. at p. 6, ¶52.)Based on its express language, the arbitration agreement applies to Plaintiff’s claims against Honda. Honda is an expressly named as a beneficiary of the arbitration agreement. “HONDA” is defined under the Lease Agreement to include “American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Carlson Dec., Ex. 1, p. 6, ¶52.)The arbitration agreement applies to any dispute between Plaintiff and Honda “relating to” “the Vehicle, its Performance and any…warranties.” (Carlson Dec., Ex. 1, p. 6, ¶52.) Plaintiff’s complaint is based on alleged defects in the Vehicle and its performance and breach of express and implied warranties. (Complaint, ¶¶10-14.)Defendant is not a signatory to the Lease Agreement. However, Defendant establishes that it is a third party beneficiary thereof.“A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.” (Civil Code §1559.) “In some cases, a nonsignatory was required to arbitrate a claim because a benefit was conferred on the nonsignatory as a result of the contract, making the nonsignatory a third party beneficiary of the arbitration agreement.” (County of Contra Costa v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 237, 242.)Third parties do not become “third party beneficiaries” just because a contract benefits them. A contract must be “made expressly” for the third party's benefit. The test is “whether an intent to benefit a third person appears from the terms of the contract.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 301-302; Pillar Project AG v. Payward Ventures, Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671, 279 Cal.Rptr.3d 117, 120, 123 (plaintiff was not third party beneficiary to arbitration agreement between “cryptocurrency exchange” platform and intermediary plaintiff hired to convert his cryptocurrency into conventional currency).A person “only incidentally or remotely benefitted” from a contract is not a third party beneficiary. (Lucas v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, 590.) Nor does knowledge that the third party may benefit from the contract suffice. (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) To show the contracting parties intended to benefit it, a third party must show that, under the express terms of the contract at issue and any other relevant circumstances under which the contract was made, (1) “the third party would in fact benefit from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the contract “is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.” (Goonewardene, supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 830.)Defendant is expressly named in the arbitration agreement as a beneficiary of its provisions. Defendant clearly would benefit from the arbitration agreement as an expressly named party. The fact that Valley Hi Honda and Plaintiff included Defendant as named beneficiary is evidence that they intended to benefit Defendant. Allowing Defendant to enforce the arbitration agreement would clearly be consistent with the parties’ reasonable expectations given that they expressly named it as a party.Plaintiff argues Defendant is not a third party beneficiary of the arbitration agreement. Plaintiff relies on factually distinguishable case law. None of the defendants asserting third party beneficiary status in Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 324, Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 971 and Goondewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817 were expressly named in the agreement they were seeking to enforce. Here, the factors to establish third party beneficiary status are clearly established based on the parties’ expressly naming Honda in the arbitration provision. As such, Honda may enforce the arbitration agreement despite its status as a nonsignatory.Plaintiff argues her claims do not arise out of the Lease Agreement. However, based on the express language of the arbitration provision contained in the Lease Agreement, it expressly covers Plaintiff’s claims, because they relate to the Vehicle, its performance and warranties. (Carlson Dec., Ex. 1, Lease Agreement, ¶52.) The arbitration provision is therefore not limited to claims that “arise out” of the Lease Agreement.Again, Plaintiff relies on factually distinguishable cases to argue that arbitration must be denied because her claims do not arise out of the Lease Agreement. None of the cases involved arbitration provisions as broadly worded as the arbitration provision contained in the Lease Agreement. (See e.g. Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 962 (arbitration provision applied to claim or dispute that “arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship”); Kramer v. Toyota Motor Corp. (2013) 705 F.3d 1122, 1125 (arbitration provision applied to any claim or dispute “arising out of, or relating to: the vehicle, your credit application, this contract, the sale or financing of the vehicle, and any collection activities); (Jurosky v. BMW of North America, LLC (2020) 441 F.Supp.3d 963, 967 (“arises out of or relates to .... purchase or condition of this vehicle, the contact or any resulting transaction or relationship”). Unlike the cases relied upon by Plaintiff, based on the express language of the arbitration provision, Plaintiff and Valley Hi Honda clearly intended to include her claims for breach of warranty and violation of Song Beverly against Honda.Defendant carries its burden as the party seeking to compel arbitration. Defendant establishes the existence of an applicable arbitration agreement.2. Plaintiff fails to establish any grounds not to enforce the arbitration agreementa. Honda did not Waive its Right to Arbitration by DelayPlaintiff first asserts that Defendant has waived its right to arbitration because it delayed in demanding that the matter be arbitrated.In general, delay in demanding arbitration may result in the waiver of that contractual right. (Spear v. California State Auto. Assn. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) If no timing is specified in the contract, a party who does not demand arbitration within a reasonable period of time is deemed to have waived the right to arbitration; what constitutes a reasonable time is a question of fact. (Id.) Participation in the judicial process does not constitute a per se waiver of arbitration; it is only when the conduct of a party is inconsistent with the exercise of the right to arbitrate that waiver is appropriate. (See McConnel v. Merrill Lynch (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 946, 951; Johnson v. Siegel (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1087, 1095.) However, such participation may preclude an arbitration demand if it substantially prejudices an opponent’s rights. (McMillin Dev. v. Home Buyers Warranty (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 896, 909.)In this case, Plaintiff asserts that, by not demanding arbitration until six months after the complaint was filed and having engaged in discovery in the intervening period, Defendant has waived any contractual right they have to arbitrate. Plaintiff further argues that motions to compel discovery were researched, written, and filed prior to the hearing on this motion and that, if they are compelled to arbitration, they will suffer substantial prejudice.Defendant asserts that the discovery they propounded was aimed at determining what the contract was between the parties and was necessary to determine whether a demand for arbitration was appropriate. Defendant further asserts that Plaintiff’s discovery motions were filed after their demand for arbitration so that Plaintiff could have avoided the costs incurred in making those motions.Having reviewed the relevant case law as well as the facts in this case, the court finds that Defendants have not waived, either explicitly or by failing to timely demand, their contractual right to arbitration. To the extent that Plaintiff incurred costs drafting and filing discovery motions, any prejudice was not substantial and could have been avoided by meeting and conferring with defendant.b. The Arbitration Agreement is Not UnconscionablePlaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that the agreement is unconscionable.“[G]enerally applicable contract defenses, such as ... unconscionability, may be applied to invalidate arbitration agreements without contravening” the FAA’ or California law. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246.) “The party opposing arbitration has the burden of proving the arbitration provision is unconscionable.” (Szetela v. Discover Bank (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1099.)“The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves. In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243–1244 (quoting Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114).)“The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power. Oppression occurs where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form. When the contract is a contract of adhesion imposed and drafted by the party with superior bargaining power, the adhesive nature of the contract is evidence of some degree of procedural unconscionability. However, the fact that an agreement is adhesive is not, alone, sufficient to render it unconscionable.” (Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1561.)“The term contract of adhesion signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113.) Thus, a form agreement presented on a preprinted form and offered on a take-it-or-leave-it-basis would render it a contract of adhesion. (Baltazar, supra, 62 Cal.4th at 1245.) Where a contract ofadhesion is presented but there is no element of surprise or oppression, the Court must be “particularly attuned” to a claim of unconscionability, but the agreement is “not subject[ed] to the same degree of scrutiny as contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices.” (Id.)“The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126.)“Substantive unconscionability arises when a contract imposes unduly harsh, oppressive, or one-sided terms.¿(Armendariz, supra,¿24 Cal.4th at p. 113 (provision in adhesion contract will not be enforced if it “does not fall within the reasonable expectations of the weaker or adhering party or if, in context, it is unduly oppressive or unconscionable); Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at p. 797) “The substantive unconscionability of an arbitration agreement is viewed in the context of the rights and remedies that otherwise would have been available to the parties.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 137.)Plaintiff fails to establish that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. Plaintiff fails to submit any evidence to support her claims that the arbitration agreement was a form agreement presented on a take it or leave it basis. This claim is undermined by the option for Plaintiff to “opt out” of the arbitration agreement within 30 days of signing. (Carlson Dec., Ex. 1, p. 6, ¶52.)Even if the arbitration agreement was part of a form agreement presented to her on a take or leave it basis, the arbitration agreement is prominently set forth in the Lease Agreement and it is not hidden. The arbitration clause contains in bold-faced type a “warning” asking that the Plaintiff read the arbitration provision and explaining in the most basic terms its effect. (Carlson Dec., Ex. 1, d¶52.) The Lease Agreement was also only six pages. (Id.) There can be no claim of surprise. Moreover, the agreement in question is a vehicle lease agreement where the power disparity between the parties is nowhere near as potentially oppressive as between an employer and employee.The arbitration agreement is also not substantively unconscionable. The arbitration agreement allows for any of the named parties to the arbitration agreement to compel arbitration, including Plaintiff. The arbitration agreement designates that the arbitration hearing will be where Plaintiff resides. The arbitration agreement provides that the Plaintiff can contact the arbitrator for a fee waiver and if the request is denied, Honda would be obligated to pay filing and arbitrator fees up to $5,000, unless the law requires more. (Id.) Each party would be responsible for any other fees. Honda also waived any right to seek attorney fees unless the claims were frivolous. (Id.) The provision is clearly not one-sided or unduly harsh to Plaintiff.Plaintiff fails to satisfy her burden as the party opposing arbitration based on unconscionability. The motion to compel arbitration is therefore properly granted.3. The split in authority regarding whether an unnamed, nonsignatory vehicle manufacturer may enforce an arbitration agreement currently before the Supreme Court is irrelevant hereThere is currently a split in authority regarding whether a nonsignatory manufacturer may rely on equitable estoppel to compel arbitration of Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Claims based on an arbitration provision contained in the vehicle sale or lease contract. The issue is currently under review by the California Supreme Court.While Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495 answered this question in the affirmative, a line of more recent cases have disagreed with its reasoning. These cases include Davis v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 825, 319 Cal.Rptr.3d 517, 527-528 (noting Supreme Corut review of issue and exercising discretion to follow Ford Motor Warranty Cases and rejecting Felisilda); Yeh v. Supr. Ct. (2023) 95 Cal.App. 5th 264, Kielar v. Supr. Ct. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 619-620 (review granted Oct. 25, 2023), Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.Ap.5th 958, 968-971 (review granted Sep. 20, 2023), Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1333-1336 (review granted July 19, 2023 S279969), Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (2022) 23 F.4th 942, 946 and Jurosky v. BMW North America, LLC (2020) 441 F.Supp.3d 963.Plaintiff argues that her case is analogous to Felisilda and distinguishable from the Ford Motor Warranty Cases. Plaintiff’s case is entirely distinguishable from either side of the split on this issue. Defendant is not seeking to compel arbitration based on equitable estoppel.Defendant is seeking to compel arbitration as an expressly named third party beneficiary of an arbitration provision that specifically includes disputes over “warranties.” Neither Felisilda nor the cases on the side of the Ford Motor Warranty Cases involved a car manufacturer who was expressly named in the arbitration agreement and an arbitration provision that covered disputes over warranties.4. Action is stayed per CCP §1281.4“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies. [¶] If an application has been made to a court of competent jurisdiction… the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy is ordered, until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP §1281.4.)Plaintiff’s entire complaint is ordered to arbitration. As such, the action is stayed pending completion of arbitration.ORDERDefendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is GRANTED. The action is stayed pursuant to CCP §1281.4 pending completion of arbitration.