  Case Number:  22STCV32363    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, November 5, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV32363
CASE NAME:                        Boyle
Flats Food & Beverage, Inc., et al. v. Alex Koons
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Daleyn
Accountancy, Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Boyle
Flats Food & Beverage, Inc. and Ted Yenawine
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Fourth Amended
Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        22 October 2024
REPLY:                                  28
October 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer is sustained in
its entirety without leave to amend. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
 
This is an action arising out of Plaintiff Tad Yenawine’s (“Yenawine”)
and Defendant Alex Koons (“Koons”) formation of a California entity, Plaintiff
Boyle Flats Food and Beverage, Inc. dba Purgatory Pizza (“BFFB”). Plaintiffs
and Defendant operated a restaurant business thus called “Purgatory Pizza.” The
Complaint alleges Defendant took monies from Plaintiff BFFB’s bank accounts for
expenses to open his own pizza restaurant in 2020. The Complaint alleges
Defendant applied for and received an Emergency Incident Disaster Loan (“EIDL”)
in BFFB’s name which was transferred to Defendant’s own account and no payments
were made by Defendant for the EIDL afterwards. The Complaint also alleges Defendant
abandoned his duties as manager of Purgatory Pizza and continued to pay himself
his salary.¿¿ 
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges four causes of action: (1) breach of
contract; (2) conversion; (3) fraud; and (4) breach of fiduciary duty.¿¿ 
 
On June 23, 2021, Petitioner filed a Request for Dismissal without
prejudice as to his claim for writ of mandate.¿¿ 
 
 On October 23, 2023,
Defendant Coons filed the Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) alleging four
causes of action: (1) Dissolution of Corporation, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty
– Derivative, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Individual, and (4) Failure to
Reimburse Business Expenses.
 
On February 28, 2024, the court sustained Defendant Daleyn’s
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint with leave to amend. 
 
On May 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) alleging eight causes of action against Defendant Koons and Defendant
Daleyn Accountancy, Inc. (“Daleyn”); and Does 2 to 10. The TAC alleges:
 
1)    
Breach of Contract –
against Defendant Koons;
2)    
Conversion - against
Defendant Koons;
3)    
Fraud - against Defendant
Koons;
4)    
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 
5)    
Breach of Contract –
against Defendant Daleyn; 
6)    
Conversion – against Defendant
Daleyn;
7)    
Fraud – against Defendant
Daleyn; and
8)    
Breach of Fiduciary Duty -
against Defendant Daleyn;
 
Defendant
Daleyn’s demurrer was sustained with leave to amend. 
 
On
September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Fourth Amended Complaint
(“4AC”) alleging the same eight causes of action as the TAC. 
 
Defendant
Daleyn now demurs to the 4AC. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Discussion
 
On
or about 2020, Defendant Daleyn was contracted to provide BFFB with accounting
and business advisory services. (4AC, ¶¶ 47, 48, Ex. 2.) Defendant Daleyn
became aware that Defendant Koons was taking money from BFFB to fund his new
business venture while also proving Koons with accounting and business advisory
services. (4AC, ¶ 50.) Plaintiffs Yenawine and BFFB now bring claims against
Daleyn for breach of contract, conversion, fraud, and breach of fiduciary duty.
Defendant Daleyn now demurs to all the causes of action alleged against it. 
 
A.        Yenawine’s
Standing  to Bring Action on Behalf of
BFFB
 
Defendant
Daleyn alleges that Yenawine lacks standing to bring an action on behalf of
BFFB. Under Anmaco, Inc. v. Bohlken (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th (Anmaco),
Plaintiff Yenawine lacks standing to bring an action on behalf of Plaintiff
BFFB. As previously noted by this court in its February 28, 2024, ruling, the Anmaco
Court found that because a corporate
president has no greater power than any other director, the president had no
power to initiate a lawsuit in the name of the corporation against a
co-director and equal shareholder. (Id. at p. 900.) 
 
Pressing the corporation into litigation as a
plaintiff is inappropriate where the other shareholder-director could claim
equal authority to bring suit in the corporate name. This is particularly obvious in the instant case where Bohlken is
not only an equal director and shareholder, but is also Chief Executive Officer
of the company. The proper vehicle for such a
suit, when the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the corporation, is a
shareholders’ derivative action. 
 
(Id. at p. 900.)  
 
Plaintiffs assert they have standing to bring
the action under Corporations Code §§ 207, 315, 316(c), 506, and BFFB’s
corporate Bylaws and resolutions (4AC, ¶ 50.) The court finds that Corporations
Code § 207 outlines the powers of a corporation, section 315 pertains to rules
on corporate loans, section 316(c) allows creditors and shareholders to bring
suit against directors under the four specific circumstances outlined in
section 316(a), and section 506 allows shareholders to bring suit for
unauthorized distribution of dividends. The 4AC fails to allege with requisite
particularity how each of the above sections gives Plaintiff Yenawine standing
to bring an action on behalf of BFFB. Consequently, the court fails to find
that the Corporations Code gives Plaintiff Yenawine authority to bring suit on
behalf of BFFB. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that under Corp.
Code § 310(a), Koons could not vote on matters in which he had a financial
interest. However, the 4AC is devoid of allegations that Koons could not vote
on a board resolution because he had a financial interest in the resolution and
that, in the event there is a deadlock between the Board of Directors, the vote
of one Director is sufficient to pass a resolution. Facts not alleged in the
pleadings are presumed to not exist. (Schick v. Lerner (1987) 193
Cal.App.3d 1321, 1327.) 
 
However, the 4AC also alleges that after BFFB’s
bylaws were adopted, BFFB’s board of director voted to approve a resolution
that authorized officers of BFFB to  take
any action  “as may in the judgment of
the officer so acting be necessary or desirable in connection with, or in
furtherance of, any of the foregoing resolutions, and the execution and
delivery of any such document, agreement or instrument or the taking of any
such action shall be conclusive evidence of such officer’s authority hereunder
to so act.” (4AC, ¶¶ 8, 9., Ex. 1, § IV, at p. AK000003-4.)
 
The court
may take judicial notice of the existence of BFFB’s bylaws. “Although the existence
of a document may be judicially noticeable, the truth of statements contained
in the document and its proper interpretation are not subject to judicial
notice if those matters are reasonably disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity Co.
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) Defendant
Daleyn asserts that it would be improper to interpret the written consent
provision in the bylaws (§ IV) as allowing officers to take any action that may
in the judgment of the officer to be necessary or desirable because each
officer of the company would continually overrule each other and initiate and
then dismiss lawsuits, leaving a feedback loop of destructive litigation
disabling the corporation in their wake. 
 
On its face, the
bylaws allow an officer to take an action if it is necessary or in furtherance
of “the forgoing resolutions” and “execution and delivery” of “all documents,
agreements and instruments to effectuate any of the foregoing resolutions.”
(TACC, Ex. 1, § IV.) Therefore, a condition precedent to an officer taking
action is that the action be in furtherance of the board resolution
contemplated by Exhibit 1. 
 
The 4AC alleges that
because the bylaws provide that BFFB’s President should enforce the board’s
action, the BFFB board passed resolutions authorizing and directing Yenawine to
take any actions Yenawine saw fit. (4AC, ¶ 9, Ex. 1 (B)(§IV)(C) at p. AK000026-27.)
However, the 4AC fails to allege that BFFB’s board specifically passed a
resolution that allowed Yenawine to initiate this action against Daleyn. BFFB’s
bylaws state that the powers of the President are limited to effecting the
order and resolution of the Board of Directors, meaning both Yenawine and Koons
need to pass such resolution. (Id.) 
 
DIRECTORS.
 
(A) NUMBER OF DIRECTORS.
The authorized number of Directors of the Corporation shall be, initially, two
(the “Board of Directors”) until changed by an amendment to these Bylaws duly
adopted in accordance with these Bylaws by the vote or written consent of the
initial Directors, Alex Koons, and Tad Yenawine, individuals authorized to
perform the duties presented under these Bylaws. 
 
(4AC, Ex. 1(B) Art.
III(A) at p. AK000022.) 
 
IV.       OFFICERS
 
[ . . . ]
 
(C) PRESIDENT.
The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation, and
subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, shall have general
supervision over the business and affairs of the Corporation. The
President shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors
are carried out, and shall perform any other duties as the Board of Directors,
once duly authorized, may assign. The President shall have the duties and
authority of a chief executive officer and preside at all shareholders'’
meetings and meetings of the board. The President shall initially be Tad
Yenawine.
 
(4AC, Ex. 1(B) Art.
IV(C) at pp. AK000026-27) 
 
Therefore, for Yenawine to have authority
as President of BFFB to bring suit, there must be a resolution by BFFB’s board
of directors that would lead Yenawine to think such action was necessary or in
furtherance such a resolution. The Anmaco Court was clear that when the
bylaws of the corporation do not permit the President to act without board
approval “[t]he president does not have
the power to enter into contracts or execute other instruments or render the
corporation ‘liable for any purposes or any amount’ without Board
authorization” including the “power to institute
litigation in the corporate name against the other 50 percent shareholder.” (Anmaco,
supra, 13 Cal.App.4th at p. 898.) 
 
“The California position with reference to the authority of
corporate officers has been strict. Even the president, apart from acts done in
the course of ordinary business, or in pursuance of apparent authority depends
upon the powers conferred upon him, either by statute, corporate charter,
by-laws or the directors. The mere fact that he is president, without more,
does not necessarily give him greater power than any other director.” (Sealand Inv. Corp. v. Emprise Inc. (1961) 190
Cal.App.2d 305, 321–322; see also O'Flaherty v. Belgum
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1044, 1062.) Here, the 4AC fails
to state when the board of director passed a resolution that led Yenawine to
believe it was necessary or in furtherance of a board resolution to bring suit
on behalf of BFFB. 
 
Consequently, the
court agrees that Yenawine fails to allege facts to show that it has standing
to bring suit on behalf of BFFB. Moreover, Yenawine fails to show that he can
bring suit against Defendant Daleyn for torts that belong to him individually
rather than as BFFB’s President. In Murphy v. BDO Seidman (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 687, the Court of Appeal extended liability for breach of
intentional misrepresentation to anyone who would reasonably rely on the
misrepresentations of the auditor and who the auditor intended such
individually. (Id., at p. 694.) The 4AC fails to allege that Daleyn
intended Yenawine to rely on its misrepresentations. The 4AC fails to show
facts to show that Daleyn is personally liable to Yenawine for any torts
committed against Yenawine in his individual capacity rather than in his
capacity as President of BFFB. 
Defendant Daleyn’s
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint and Third Amended Complaint have been
sustained. This is Daleyn’s third demurrer to Plaintiff’s pleadings. “In
response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue, a complaint . . .  shall not be amended more than three times,
absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded
that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause
of action.” (CCP, § 430.31(e)(1).)
 
Unless the Plaintiffs
can show that a resolution was passed that led Yenawine to believe he could
bring suit or that there is case law showing that a board of director(s) can
act unilaterally when the board is deadlocked, the court sees no reason why
leave to amend to should be granted. Unless Plaintiff Yenawine can show that he
can bring actions against Daleyn in his individual capacity, the court sees no
reason why leave to amend should be granted. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to 4AC is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Daleyn’s demurrer is
sustained in its entirety without leave to amend. 
 
 
 


