 Case Number:  23STCV06883    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  CHRASHAWN JACKSON, et al. Plaintiffs; vs. AUDREY WEBB, Defendant.  Case No.:  23STCV06883 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT AUDREY WEBB’S ANTI-SLAPP MOTION TO STRIKE Defendant’s special motion to strike is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND This is an action for malicious prosecution. Plaintiffs Chrashawn Jackson, JeValian Jackson, and Phelicia Jackson are the daughters of Decedent Nathanial Jackson. Defendant Audrey Webb is Plaintiffs’ stepmother. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant was the first successor trustee of Plaintiffs’ father’s trust. Plaintiffs and Defendant were all beneficiaries under the trust. The main asset of the trust was Decedent’s house in Altadena. There were also furnishings, personal property, firearms, and bank accounts. After Decedent passed away, Defendant cut off communication with Chrashawn Jackon and Phelicia Jackson regarding the trust. In July 2020, Defendant allowed Plaintiffs to come to the Altadena house to go through their father’s belongings. After this meeting, Defendant informed Plaintiffs that she hired an attorney and ceased direct contact with Plaintiffs. In February 2021, Defendant hired an attorney, Roger Rosen, and filed frivolous temporary restraining orders against Plaintiffs. The petition for a permanent restraining order against Chrashawn Jackson was denied due to inconsistent and untrue testimony Defendant gave at the hearing. Chrashawn Jackson was specifically targeted because she is an attorney. A temporary restraining order was granted against JeValian Jackson that prevented her from going to the Altadena house to consider her option to make an offer on the house based on fair market value. Defendant alleged in her original petition under penalty of perjury that Chrashawn Jackson stole Decedent’s guns, but later admitted they were not stolen. Defendant and her attorney attempted to destroy Chreshawn Jackson’s career, made a complaint against her with the state bar, and threatened to destroy her career if she did not settle the restraining order matter. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On March 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against Defendant. On June 6, 2023, Defendant filed the instant special motion to strike.DISCUSSION In assessing a defendant’s section 425.16 special motion to strike, the court must engage in a two-step process. (Shekhter v. Financial Indem. Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150.) First, the court must decide whether the defendant has met the threshold burden of showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances. (Id.) This burden may be met by showing the act which forms the basis for the plaintiff's cause of action was an act that falls within one of the four categories of conduct set forth in 425.16(e). If the defendant meets his initial burden, then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim—i.e., present facts which would, if proved at trial, support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor.  (Id. at 15051.) In making its determination of the anti-SLAPP motion, the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b)(2).) However, the court does not “weigh credibility [nor] compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, [the court] accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluates the defendant’s evidence only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 326.) A. Protected ActivityMoving parties have the initial burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.) Specifically, courts decide whether moving parties have made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech, under the Constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278; Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 671; Equilon Ent. v. Consumer Cause (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67; Gov. Gray Davis Committee v. Amer. Taxpayers Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 458-59; CCP §425.16(e).) Moving parties can satisfy their burden by showing (1) statements made before legislative, executive or judicial proceedings, or made in connection with matters being considered in such proceedings, or (2) statements made in a public forum, or other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional rights of petition or free speech, in connection with issues of public interest. (CCP §425.16(e); Equilon Ent., LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66.)“A claim arises from protected activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.) “‘[T] defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’”  (Id. at 1063 (quoting City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78) (emphasis in original).) “‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.’”  Id. (quoting Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89).) “Instead, the focus is on determining what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.’” (Id. (quoting Navellier, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 92) (alteration in original).) “‘The only means specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy that [‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e) . . . .’”  (Id. (quoting Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66) (emphasis in original).)  “In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.”  (Id.)“Allegations of a protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 395.) The legislature indicated that particular alleged acts giving rise to a claim for relief may be the object of an anti-SLAPP motion. (Id.) In cases involving allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the plaintiff is required to establish a probability of prevailing on any claim for relief based on allegations of protected activity. (Id.) Neither the form of the complaint nor the primary right at stake is determinative. (Id.) “Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should analyze each claim for relief — each act or set of acts supplying a basis for relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action — to determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) “If a cause of action contains multiple claims and a moving party fails to identify how the speech or conduct underlying some of those claims is protected activity, it will not carry its first-step burden as to those claims. (Id at p. 1012.) Malicious prosecution actions are not exempt from anti-SLAPP motions. Specifically, the court in Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728 states that “[b]y definition, a malicious prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by filing a lawsuit…[a]ccordingly, every Court of Appeal that has addressed the question has concluded that malicious prosecution causes of action fall within the purview of the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Jarrow at p.735.) The Jarrow court specified that even though malicious prosecution claims are exempt from application of the litigation privilege, “the litigation privilege is an entirely different type of statute than section 425.16,” and malicious prosecution claims are not similarly exempt from anti-SLAPP motions. (Id. at 737.)  “A plaintiff must plead and prove three elements to establish the tort of malicious prosecution: a lawsuit ‘(1) was commenced by or at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with malice.’” (Nunez v. Pennisi (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 861, 872-873.) Here, the complaint alleges a claim for malicious prosecution against Defendant based on the allegation that Defendant filed elder abuse restraining order applications against Plaintiffs alleging that Plaintiffs stole trust assets and were bullying her into resigning as trustee. (Complaint p. 2-3, Ex. 1.)  Such a claim is subject to the anti-slapp statute because it arises from an underlying lawsuit, or petition to the judicial branch.  (Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 734–735. Plaintiffs argue that this action does not arise from protected activity because perjury is not protected speech. But, to exclude activity from Anti-Slapp protection on the basis that it is illegal a defendant must concede the illegality of its conduct or the illegality must be conclusively shown by the evidence. (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299.) However, as discussed below, Plaintiff does not conclusively show that Plaintiff willfully provided material false information.Statements made in connection with litigation activities do constitute protected activities under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e)(2). California courts have ruled that allegations of litigation related activities do not necessarily mean that the action arises from protective activity because they merely reflect the manner in which a defendant implements the alleged wrongdoing. (Gaynor v. Bulen (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 864, 879.) For example allegations that a trustee filed a temporary restraining order to influence a trustor into amending his trust did not show an action arose from protected activity because the action was for a breach of fiduciary duty and the filing of the action was not necessary to establish a claim for breach of fiduciary duty. (White v. Davis (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 270, 289.) Here, unlike White, Plaintiffs’ only cause of action is for malicious prosecution and the filing of a lawsuit is necessary to establish a claim for malicious prosecution. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ claims arise from protected activity.Accordingly, the Court finds that the Defendant meets the first prong. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. B. Probability of Success at TrialPlaintiffs allege that they have a likelihood of prevailing on the merits of this case at trial because the evidence shows Defendant obtained the temporary restraining orders based upon false allegations without probable cause and that Defendant did not request the restraining orders in good faith. If the defendant meets its initial burden to show its activity is protected by the ant-SLAPP statute, then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to prove that plaintiff has a legally sufficient claim by demonstrating through admissible evidence a probability of prevailing on the claim. (De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC¿(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 855.) The trial court considers the pleadings and evidence of both parties. (Ibid.) The plaintiff’s proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence. (Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940.)(“Sweetwater”) The court “does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.” (Ibid.) The court’s inquiry “is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment” accepting the plaintiff’s evidence as true. (Ibid.) “The court evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. [Citation.] ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id.; see also Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)¿ As discussed above, a claim for malicious prosecution requires that an action (1) was commenced by or at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with malice. The “malice” element of malicious prosecution focuses on the subjective intent or purpose with which the defendant acted in initiating the prior action. (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 292. “The motive of the defendant must have been something other than . . . the satisfaction in a civil action of some personal or financial purpose. The plaintiff must plead and prove actual ill will or some improper ulterior motive.” (Downey Venture v. LMI Insurance Co. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 478, 494, emphasis in original.)Defendant sought and obtained a temporary restraining order with respect to all three Plaintiffs. Defendant only pursued a permanent restraining against Plaintiff Chrashawn Jackson. The permanent restraining order was not granted.Here, Plaintiffs provide a copy of the temporary restraining orders at issue, transcripts of the restraining order hearing, and the minute order from the restraining order hearing. Plaintiffs JeValian Jackson and Phelicia Jackson cannot prevail on a malicious prosecution claims as there was no legal determination that was favorable to them with respect to the temporary restraining orders. Defendant did not pursue permanent restraining orders against them and the temporary restraining orders simply lapsed.Plaintiffs’ evidence shows that Defendant filed the temporary restraining order petitions (“TROs”) under penalty of perjury, alleging that Plaintiffs stole trust assets, including jewelry, guns, cameras, and Decedent’s car in order to bully her into stepping down as trustee of Decedent’s trust. (Opp. Exh. 1.) Plaintiffs provide transcripts from the hearing held with respect to Plaintiff Chrashawn Jackson.Sergeant Timothy Bundy  testified that he was dispatched to the Altadena home on July 18, 2020 to help “the caller unload some firearms for safety reasons.” Defendant and Plaintiff Crashawn Jackson were at the home with Bundy for about 50 minutes. According to Bundy nothing about the call indicated that anybody was acting under duress. Bundy also testified that he did not know anything about the firearms in the house being transported that day.Sergeant Carlo Montiglio testified that he want on the above-referenced call with Sergeant Bundy. He testified that he saw no indication that anybody was acting under duress that day. The officers removed the ammunition from the guns. Webb testified that JeValian Jackson had a car that belonged to Webb’s late husband. Webb testified that she gave the car to JeValian Jackson. Webb testified that she put the car in JeValian Jackson’s name so that she could drive it and for insurance purposes. Webb further testified that on July 18, 2020 all three Plaintiffs were at the home in Altadena. Webb had set out the Decedent’s jewelry, cameras, and clothes, and his weapons. These items were to be divided among the Plaintiffs.Webb indicated that she previously testified that Chrashawn Jackson gave a glock to Phelicia Jackson. Webb testified that Chrashawn removed the weapons from the home, but that Webb wanted the glock.Webb also testified that she wanted a ring back.Webb stated that Chrashawn Jackson threatened her with criminal embezzlement charges if she did not return funds she had used to try to save the house from foreclosure.According to the court minute order, the Court found that Defendant did not sustain the applicable burden of proof and the request for a permanent restraining order was denied.The Court in that matter further stated that  “the Court finds that there is a good faith dispute between the parties regarding the proper ownership of various articles owned by Nathaniel Jackson before his death to be resolved in probate.”Plaintiffs’ evidence shows that Defendant filed the TRO and that the matter was resolved in a legal termination favorable to Plaintiff Chrashawn Jackson. The Request for Elder or Dependent Adult Abuse Restraining Order as to Chrashawn Jackson indicates as follows.The three Plaintiffs were the children of the Decedent. Defendant was the trustee of the Decedent’s trust. The three Plaintiffs and Defendant were beneficiaries of that trust.Plaintiffs have been interfering with Defendant’s attempts to carry out her duties and have been attempting to “bully me to act improperly and to resign as trustee.”Plaintiffs stole jewelry, guns, two cameras and camera equipment that was in the house. JeValian Jackson is driving Decedent’s car. These are trust assets. These are all assets of the trust and they had no right to take these items or to possess them until there is a formal distribution.Defendant attempted to move furniture out of the house for safekeeping. Chrashawn Jackson called the Sheriff’s Department to stop the moving of the furniture even though as trustee she has the duty of safekeeping the assets of the trust.Plaintiffs have attempted to stop her from selling the house and have bullied her into refraining from doing so and from resigning as trustee.Defendant’s lawyer asked Plaintiffs’ lawyer to instruct Plaintiffs that communications only occur through attorneys. Plaintiffs’ lawyer refused.Security cameras on the property have been disturbed. The three Plaintiffs have family members who have been incarcerated.Plaintiff fears for her safety.The probable cause element requires establishing that no reasonable person in Weber’s circumstances would have believed that there were reasonable grounds to bring the temporary restraining order against Plaintiff Crashawn Jackson. (CACI No. 1501 Wrongful Use of Civil Proceedings.) The malice element requires establishing that Webb acted primarily for a purpose other than succeeding on the merits of the claim. (Id.)The evidence does not address either of these elements. With respect to whether a reasonable person in Weber’s circumstances would have believed that there were reasonable grounds to bring the temporary restraining order application, Plaintiffs  do not address the other allegations in the application separate and apart from theft, including that Plaintiffs were trying to bully her into resigning as trustee, Plaintiffs were interfering with her efforts to sell the house and distribute the proceeds pursuant to the terms of the trust, that Plaintiffs refused to have communications flow through the lawyers only, and that security cameras on the property had been disturbed.  With respect to malice, the Complaint alleges that Defendant intended the TRO to destroy Plaintiff Chrashawn Jackson’s legal career. (Comp. p. 3.) The exhibits attached by Plaintiffs do not support that allegation. With respect to conclusively demonstrating perjury, Plaintiffs do not succeed in that endeavor either. Plaintiffs focus on part of the temporary restraining order application stating that  “Plaintiffs stole jewelry, guns, two cameras and camera equipment that was in the house. Jevalian Jackson is driving Nathaniel Jackson’s car. These are trust assets. These are all assets of the trust and they had no right to take these items or to possess them until there is a formal distribution.”Plaintiffs contend that because Defendant then testified at the hearing on making the restraining order permanent that she let Plaintiffs take the camera equipment, some of the firearms and that she let Jevalian Jackson have the car, that Defendant committed perjury in her application.With respect to jewelry and firearms, Webb testified essentially that she wanted a glock and one ring and did not agree to Plaintiffs having those items.  With respect to the car, Webb testified that she allowed Plaintiff Jevalian Jackson to have title of the car so she could drive it for insurance purposes. The restraining order does not indicate that Jevalian Jackson stole the car but rather contests whether it is correct for her to possess the car until there is a formal distribution of assets. On this record, the Court cannot find that Plaintiffs have  conclusively demonstrated that Defendant committed perjury in her application for a temporary restraining order. Perjury requires proof of a willful statement that information was true even though the person making the statement knew that it was false.(Cal. Crim. Instruction No. 2641.) There is no conclusive evidence regarding Defendant’s mental state at the time that she made the alleged perjurious statements.  Defendant’s special motion to strike is granted. DATED: October 31, 2023 ________________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 