 Case Number:  24VECV00072    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT




Robert W. Brown,
  et al.,
 
Plaintiffs,
 
       
   v.
 
Newrez LLC, et
  al.,
 
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
         24VECV00072       107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
Demurrer
  



 
 
Ruling:                                    The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED as to all seven causes of action.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 

 

 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs Robert W. Brown and Patricia Brown were
the owners of property located at 4465 Tupelo Derive, Calabasas, CA (the
“Property”). The Property was sold at a trustee’s sale on May 20, 2016. The
Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was recorded wit the Los Angeles Recorder’s Office on
May 25, 2016, and it was conveyed back to the beneficiary of the Deed of Trust,
The Bank of New York Mellon fka The Bank of New York, as Trustee for the
Certificateholders, CWALT, Inc. Alternative Loan Trust 2007-22 Mortgage Pass
Through Certificates Series 2007-22. Plaintiffs filed this action to contest
the foreclosure on their home. Plaintiffs previously filed other legal actions
in federal and state court challenging the foreclosure. 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this action
against Defendants NewRez LLC fka New Penn Financial LLC d/b/a Shellpoint
Mortgage Servicing, New Residential Funding, II, The Bank of New York Mellon
fka The Bank of New York, as Trustee for the Certificateholders, CWALT, Inc.
Alternative Loan Trust 2007-22 Mortgage Pass Through Certificates Series
2007-22 and Community Loan Servicing LLC fka Bayview Loan Servicing LLC
(collectively “Defendants”). On June 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleging (1) unfair business practices licensing; (2)
fraud-concealment; (3) fraud-extrinsic; (4) Dodd-Frank Act; (5)
Fraud-Conveyance; (6) vacate ruling; and (7) business practices/pooling and
service agreements[1].  
On August 2, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer to
the FAC and then a Notice of Non-Opposition on August 21, 2024, after
Plaintiffs failed to oppose the instant motion. 
On August 27, 2024, this Court called a hearing on
the instant demurrer, sustaining the demurrer as to all seven causes of action
for failure to state a cause of action as to each claim. The Court further
noted that Plaintiffs had failed to oppose the instant demurrer. As such, the
Court continued the hearing to Wednesday, September 11, 2024, and gave
Plaintiffs until August 30, 2024, to file and serve their Opposition. 
On August 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
Opposition[2], along with a collection of Exhibits. 
On September 4, 2024, Defendants filed their Reply.

The Court has read and considered the moving
papers, opposition and reply. 
EVIDENTIARY MATTERS
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code §452(c) and (d). 
Plaintiffs’ Exhibits
Defendant does not object to Plaintiffs’ proffered
exhibits but the Court notes that Plaintiffs do not appear to have lodged
copies with the Court. Further, Plaintiffs do not attempt to admit the exhibits
via a request for judicial notice.
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law
            “The party against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in
Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:...
The pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”
(CCP §430.10(e).) 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, the defects must be apparent on
the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.30, 430.70; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) The court
assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
1308, 1315.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of
instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.) A “demurrer based on an
affirmative defense cannot properly be sustained where the action might be
barred by the defense, but is not necessarily barred.” (CrossTalk
Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 635.) 
Application to Facts
            Issue
and Claim Preclusion
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ FAC is barred by the
doctrine of re judicata, or claim preclusion. Defendants argue
Plaintiffs have litigated their right to title to the Property and the validity
of the foreclosure sale in two prior actions, a state court lawsuit filed prior
to the trustee’s sale in February 2016 (“State Lawsuit”) and a federal lawsuit
after the trustee’s sale in February 2019 (“Federal Lawsuit”). Plaintiffs
acknowledge the likelihood that Defendants would raise res judicata as a
defense based on the Federal Lawsuit. (FAC, 2:26-3:1-5.) 
“Claim and issue preclusion have different
requirements and effects. Claim preclusion prevents relitigation of entire
causes of action. Claim preclusion applies only when a second suit involves (1)
the same cause of action (2) between the same parties or their privies (3)
after a final judgment on the merits in the first suit. Issue preclusion, by
contrast, prevents relitigation of previously decided issues, rather than
causes of action as a whole. It applies only (1) after final adjudication (2)
of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the
first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or
one in privity with that party.” (Samara v. Matar (2018) 5 Cal.5th 322,
326.) 
“The doctrine promotes judicial economy by
preventing claim splitting. It requires all claims based on the same cause of
action, which were or could have been raised, to be decided in a single suit.”
(Kim v. Reins International California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 92–93.) 
“Under what circumstances is a matter to be deemed
decided by the prior judgment? Obviously, if it is actually raised by proper
pleadings and treated as an issue in the cause, it is conclusively determined
by the first judgment. But the rule goes further. If the matter was within the
scope of the action, related to the subject-matter and relevant to the issues,
so that it could have been raised, the judgment is conclusive on it despite the
fact that it was not in fact expressly pleaded or otherwise urged. The reason
for this is manifest. A party cannot by negligence or design withhold issues
and litigate them in consecutive actions. Hence the rule is that the prior
judgment is res judicata on matters which were raised or could have been
raised, on matters litigated or litigable.” (Thibodeau v. Crum (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 749, 755 (homeowner’s lawsuit against driveway subcontractor was
barred by doctrine of res judicata arising from prior arbitration between
homeowner and general contractor; although issue of driveway cracks was not
raised in prior arbitration, they could and should have been raised).) 
“California employs the primary rights theory to
determine if two successive proceedings involve the same cause of action. Under
the primary rights theory, the invasion of one primary right gives rise to a
single cause of action. A cause of action consists of 1) a primary right 
possessed by the plaintiff, 2) a corresponding
primary duty devolving upon the defendant, and 3) a derelict or wrong done by
the defendant which consists in a breach of such primary right and duty. The
existence of a cause of action is based upon the harm suffered, as opposed to
the particular theory asserted by the litigant.” (Brinton v. Bankers Pension
Services, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 550, 557.) 
“The cause of action is based upon the harm
suffered, as opposed to the particular theory asserted by the litigant. Even
where there are multiple legal theories upon which recovery might be
predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for relief. Hence a
judgment for the defendant is a bar to a subsequent action by the plaintiff
based on the same injury to the same right, even though he presents a different
legal ground for relief. Thus, under the primary rights theory, the
determinative factor is the harm suffered. When two actions involving the same
parties seek compensation for the same harm, they generally involve the same
primary right.” (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th
788, 798.) 
Defendants fail to establish that all three
lawsuits seek redress for the same harm. Defendants argue Plaintiffs seek
redress for loss of the Property due to their purported loan default in all
three lawsuits. However, Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges wrongdoing and damages flowing
from the issuance of a 1098 Form in connection with the sale of the property by
Bank of New York to third parties in July 2020, the licensing status of the
entities involved in that sale and other aspects of the sale that do not pertain
to Plaintiffs’ right to the Property. The focus of the alleged wrongdoing in
this litigation are actions by NewRez, LLC in 2020, after the May 2016
trustee’s deed sale that was the subject to the State Lawsuit and Federal
Lawsuit. The Court cannot find based on the face of the convoluted FAC that the
same primary right is necessarily involved in all three litigations. In fact,
it is difficult to say what precise harm Plaintiffs are seeking redress for in
this action, because the FAC is so poorly drafted. 
In addition, while Defendants discuss the “same
cause of action” element, they do not brief at all whether the February 2016
and February 2019 lawsuits satisfy the “same parties” and “final judgment on
the merits” elements of claim preclusion. 
Based on the caption page of the State Lawsuit,
none of the demurring Defendants were named therein. (RJN, Ex. E.) Based on the
caption of the Federal Lawsuit, only demurring Defendant The Bank of New York
Mellon fka The Bank of New York, as Trustee for the Certificateholders, CWALT,
Inc. Alternative Loan Trust 2007-22 Mortgage Pass Through Certificates Series
2007- 22 (“Bank of New York”) was named as a party. Thus, of the demurring
Defendants, only Bank of New York establishes the “same party” element of claim
preclusion. Plaintiffs also raised the lack of identity of parties as grounds
to reject the res judicata defense in the FAC. (FAC, 3:6-9.) 
Defendants also submit evidence that the Federal
Lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice. (RJN, Exs. H and I.) Defendants do not
brief whether this qualifies as a final judgment on the merits. However, it is
well-established that a dismissal with prejudice is considered a judgment on
the merits preventing subsequent litigation between the parties on the
dismissed claim. (Kim v. Reins International California, Inc. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 73, 91.) 
Defendants’ Demurrer based on claim preclusion
fails and demurrer on that ground is accordingly overruled. 
            First
Cause of Action—Unfair Business Practices Licensing
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action
for “unlicensed companies” is sustained for failure to state a cause of action.
There is no recognized cause of action for “unlicensed companies,” nor is it
clear from the substantive allegations what cognizable cause of action could be
stated based on the facts alleged. Moreover, on demurrer, the burden is on
Plaintiffs to establish that the defect is reasonably capable of cure with
leave to amend. (Hendy v. Losse  (1991)
54 Cal.3d 723, 742.) On Opposition, the Court notes that Plaintiffs expound at
length as to the customary business practices of real estate proceedings in
California, including discussion the “Great Recession of 2008.” Thus,
Plaintiffs’ primary argument is that Defendants did not adhere to common
practices of real estate. Plaintiffs continue to conclude that Defendants’
improper business practices led to Plaintiffs being foreclosed on. Plaintiffs further
assert that if there is no recognized cause of action in California for an
unlicensed company, this “would be news to Defendants’ compliance officers, the
California Secretary of State, California Franchise Tax board, and the NSML.”
(Opp., pg. 8.) However, the Court finds once again that Plaintiffs do not
establish a cause of action as to unfair business practices concerning
licensure here. Plaintiffs do not establish how the foregoing commentary or
discussion translates into an applicable cause of action or what the law or
requirements are to establish such cause of action. Thus, Plaintiffs fail to
meet their burden on Opposition.
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action
for “unlicensed companies” is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
            Second
Cause of Action—Fraudulent Concealment
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action
for “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act and IRS Violations” is sustained.
According to Plaintiffs, Defendant NewRez, LLC d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing prepared and issued an IRS 1098 Form showing they were liable for
$10,287.85 of the escrow money disbursements. Plaintiffs claim this is a
violation of the Dodd- Frank Wall Street Reform Act, because under that Act,
the settlement agent (escrow officer) on the Closing Disclosure is responsible
for preparing, issuing and filing tax documents upon closing of a real estate
transaction. (FAC, ¶105.) 
Plaintiffs fail to state a cognizable claim. While
Plaintiffs cite to the Dodd Frank Act, Plaintiffs fail to cite to a specific
subsection of the act or any authority creating a private right of action for
violation of the Act. On Opposition, Plaintiffs only address the Dodd-Frank Act
in their “Additional Closing Arguments” section whereby Plaintiffs briefly
reference it by stating “[t]he claims in violating escrow procedure and the
preparing of the IRS tax documents of the Dodd-Frank Act are already covered by
other claims within this document.” (Opp., pg. 21.) Thus, on Opposition,
Plaintiffs also fail to cite to any legal authority establishing they have a
private right to pursue a cause of action for violation of the Act.
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action
for Dodd-Frank Act and IRS violations is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
            Third
Cause of Action—Fraud-Extrinsic
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action
is sustained. Plaintiffs fail to allege any of the elements of concealment or
fraud. Plaintiffs allege that NewRez LLC d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage committed
“concealment of key events involving an ongoing case, thus giving rise to
extrinsic fraud in influencing Judge Steven V. Wilson’s decision against the
Plaintiffs. (CA, Civil Code §1710 and 3924(c)(3)(d).” (FAC, ¶113.) 
Defendants argue the fraud claim is also barred by
statute of limitations. Plaintiffs’ fraud claim fails to identify any specific
act of fraud, and it is unclear if Plaintiffs are claiming fraud based on the
1098 Form issued on February 2, 2020. For this reason, the Court cannot find,
based on the face of the complaint, that the fraud claim is necessarily barred
by statute of limitations. Demurrer therefore cannot be sustained based on
statute of limitations. 
Plaintiffs’ allegations are conclusory and do not
allege any fraud. On Opposition, Plaintiffs continue to provide conclusory
arguments, concluding that the alleged fraud and deceit prevented the Honorable
Steven V. Wilson from making a fair ruling in federal court. (Opp., pgs.
12-13.) Such argument is insufficient to demonstrate the specific acts required
to establish a cause of action for fraud. Moreover, as a trial court, this
Court does not have jurisdiction to review the merits of the aforementioned
case, nor disturb its rulings.
Defendants’ Demurrer to the third cause of action
for fraud is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action—Dodd-Frank Act 
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action
for “vacate of ruling and res judicata” is sustained. There is no
cognizable cause of action for “vacate of ruling and res judicata.”
Moreover, Plaintiffs are requesting that this Court vacate the dismissal with
prejudice entered in 2:19-cv-00991-SVW-PJW and to “vacate” any “res judicata”
effect that case may have. The Court does not have jurisdiction or authority to
vacate the ruling of a federal district court, nor is there a cognizable cause
of action stated by these allegations. On Opposition, Plaintiffs merely restate
and reiterate the same language with respect to res judicata and
prejudice. Such argument remains deficient for the foregoing reasons. 
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
            Fifth
Cause of Action—Fraud-Conveyance (“Escrow Fraud”)
Defendants’ demurrer to the “escrow fraud” cause of
action is sustained. There is no cognizable cause of action for “escrow fraud,”
nor do Plaintiffs’ allege the elements of common law fraud. Plaintiffs do not
allege a clear misrepresentation by Defendants upon which they detrimentally
relied. On Opposition, Plaintiffs go as far as to state that “it is no longer a
question that Plaintiffs have standing within the Prominent Escrow File No. . .
.” (Opp., pg. 20.) Thus, instead of alleging any elements for a common law
fraud cause of action, Plaintiffs speculate as to which of the Defendants
executed which escrow documents and continue to reiterate that the answers are
contained within the “Prominent Escrow File.” (Opp., pg. 21.) As such,
Plaintiffs continue to fail to establish any cause of action for “escrow fraud”
and fail to connect any applicable facts therein. 
Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for escrow fraud is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
            Sixth
Cause of Action—Vacate Ruling (“Void Grant Deed”)
Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for “void grant deed” is sustained. Plaintiffs seek to cancel the grant deed
issued on July 23, 2020, conveying the Property from Bank of New York to third
parties, Ronald A. Rosenblum and Jacqueline D. Rosenblum, Trustees of the
Rosenblum Family Trust dated December 1, 2010. 
Civil Code section 3412 states that a written
instrument may be cancelled if “there is a reasonable apprehension that if left
outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or
voidable.” “To prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must
prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud; and
(2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary
loss or the prejudicial alternation of one's position.” (Thompson v. Ioane
(2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1193-1194.) 
Plaintiffs were not parties to the grant deed, nor
do they allege any fraud that would entitle them to void the grant deed. (FAC,
¶¶122-130.) Plaintiffs do not directly address this cause of action in their
Opposition. Instead, Plaintiffs continue to assert conclusory allegations such that
the grant deed is already void and is, therefore, evidence of an improper sale
of Plaintiffs’ property. Thus, Plaintiffs do not argue they have standing with
respect to this cause of action. Moreover, Plaintiffs seem to be conflating the
sixth and fourth causes of actions here. 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for “void grant deed” is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
            Seventh
Cause of Action—Business Practices/ Pooling and Service Agreements
Defendants’ Demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for “business practices/pooling and service agreements” is sustained. There is
no cognizable cause of action for “business practices/pooling and service
agreements,” nor did Plaintiffs assert a comprehensible argument on Opposition.
The only time this cause of action is referenced is as following:
“Nor does the Plaintiff wish to pursue its claims
of Certificateholders ,CWALT Inc., Alternative Loan Trust, 2007-22 Mortgage
Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-22 in violating its pooling and
servicing agreements.” 
(Opp., pg. 22.) 
 
On Reply, Defendants seem to think Plaintiffs are
electing to dismiss their seventh cause of action. To the Court, Plaintiffs
intentions are entirely unclear. However, it is clear that Plaintiffs have not
alleged a sufficient cause of action here.
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for “business practices/pooling and service agreements” is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
            
CONCLUSION
            The
Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to each of the seven
causes of action herein. 
            Defendants
to give notice.
 
__________________________________
                                                                        Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107,
Van Nuys
September 11, 2024                                                                Los Angeles County Superior Court


