  Case Number:  20STCV11867    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT




SHERYL ROSS ET
  AL. 
 
Plaintiffs,
 
       
   v.
VICTORIA
  GALLARDO,
Defendants.


Case Number             Department
        20STCV11867    107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
Motion
  to Reopen Discovery
 



 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 25, 2020, plaintiffs Sheryl and
Sarina Ross (plaintiffs) filed suit against defendant Victoria Gallardo
(defendant). They alleged claims for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of a car collision between the parties on July 1, 2019.
Trial was originally set for September 22, 2021. It was continued many times.
Relevant to this motion, on October 12, 2023, trial was continued to June 4,
2024. Just under two weeks before the trial date, on May 24, 2024, Kingsley
Forester and Oscar Lopez of Forrester Lopez APC substituted in as counsel for
plaintiffs. 
 
On June 4, 2024, defendant requested a
trial continuance to September 11, 2024, which the court granted. Then on July
10, 2024, on the court’s own motion, it continued the trial to December 9,
2024. 
 
Now plaintiffs move for an order reopening
discovery and calculating all discovery and witness designation deadlines from
the new trial date of December 9, 2024, or, alternatively, an order providing
the limited reopening of discovery so plaintiffs may depose defendant’s
designated experts. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The motion is GRANTED in
part. The court grants a limited reopening of discovery. Discovery is opened
for thirty days from the date of this hearing, for the sole purpose of
permitting plaintiffs to depose
defendant’s designated experts Dr. Jay Tsuruda and Dr. Ranon Udkoff. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
 
The court has the discretion to reopen discovery for
good cause shown. The factors for the court to consider include (1) the
necessity and reason for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of diligence
of the party in seeking the discovery and the reason the discovery was not
heard earlier, (3) the likelihood the discovery will prevent the case from
going to trial on the date set, and (4) the length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set and the date presently set for the trial. (Code
Civ. Proc., §2024.050, subd. (b).) “[D]ecisions about whether to grant a
continuance or extend discovery must be made in an atmosphere of substantial
justice. When the two policies collide head-on, the strong public policy
favoring disposition on the merits outweighs the competing policy favoring
judicial efficiency.” (Hernandez v. Superior Ct. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1246, as modified (Feb. 24, 2004).)
 
Analysis
 
Here, plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause for a
limited reopening of discovery.
 
Plaintiffs argue persuasively that deposing
defendant’s experts is necessary because defendant has already deposed
plaintiffs’ two non-retained medical experts leaving plaintiffs at a severe
disadvantage at trial without deposition testimony of their own. They also
argue with the depositions, defendant’s experts “will be able to testify
without having the veracity of their opinions, qualifications, or potential
biases ascertained before trial which will lead to extensive and confusing
testimony presented to the jury.” (Mtn., at p 6:12-14.) On the other hand, by
taking the expert depositions trial testimony will be significantly
streamlined. 
 
The court agrees. Plaintiffs will be greatly hindered
in their suit if they are unable to depose defendant’s experts, as the expert
opinions will be untested until trial. There is also a strong public policy
embedded in many of the rules of procedure supporting dispositions on the
merits; this motion is no different. (See Hernandez, supra, 115
Cal.App.4th at p. 1246.) 
 
Regarding the delay, Plaintiffs’ counsel contends they
are bringing the motion now because when they substituted into the case, there
was less than two weeks until trial. There was no time to bring the motion.
However, the trial has now been unexpectedly continued twice allowing counsel
time to meet and confer with defendant about the issue and to make this motion.
Plaintiffs attach emails dated July 11, 2024, the day after the court continued
the trial to December supporting their efforts to meet and confer. The court
finds that this is a sufficient explanation for the delay and demonstrates
diligence by plaintiffs. 
 
Defendant vigorously opposes the motion on the grounds
that plaintiffs have not explained why they could not conduct the discovery
earlier. It is clear why plaintiffs’ counsel could not take the depositions
earlier; plaintiffs retained them on the eve of trial. With respect to their
predecessor’s decisions, that question rests with prior counsel, not  present counsel. Defendant is aware of this;
as defendant stated in their meet and confer email “File your Motion. We will
oppose it. Discovery was closed while your predecessors had the case. Period.”
(Lopez Decl., ¶11, Ex. A at p. 3.)
 
There is no reason to punish plaintiffs for a
fortuitous change of circumstances which was outside of their control. Indeed,
plaintiffs’ counsels were willing to take the case to trial having just been
substituted in and without the deposition testimony of defendant’s experts. It
was defendant who requested the first continuance. The depositions can also be
conducted prior to trial which means judicial economy will not be hampered by
granting the motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is GRANTED in
part. The court grants a limited reopening of discovery. Discovery is opened
for thirty days from the date of this hearing, for the sole purpose of
permitting plaintiffs to depose
defendant’s designated experts Dr. Jay Tsuruda and Dr. Ranon Udkoff. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                  Judge Eric Harmon,
Department 107, Van Nuys
September 11, 2024                                                 Los Angeles County Superior Court