  Case Number:  21CMCV00087    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A 
21CMCV00087
 Michael Buck, et al. v. Peace Apostolic Church, Inc., et al.

Friday,
 May 3, at 8:30 a.m.

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO STRIKE, OR
ALTERNATIVELY, TO TAX COSTS REQUESTED BY PEACE APOSTOLIC CHURCH, INC.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR AN AWARD OF
ATTORNEY’S FEES AGAINST DEFENDANTS, PEACE APOSTOLIC CHURCH, INC.; TAMARA SWANCY
PRINCE; AND PRISCILLA WOODS BROWN
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint filed on April 20, 2021, alleges that Plaintiffs, Michael Buck, and
John Gonzalez (“Plaintiffs”), are members and leaders of the Peace Apostolic
Church, Inc. (the “Church”). Plaintiffs allege that after the death of the
Church’s pastor, the Church’s de facto officers or directors, Tamara Swancy-Prince
(“Prince”) and Priscilla Woods Brown (“Brown”), improperly spent church funds
and engaged in other misconduct. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants refuse to
permit Plaintiffs to inspect corporate records. 
       This
matter was tried to a jury which rendered an award in favor of Plaintiffs. The
Court determined the equitable claims as set for in the Statement of Decision
entered on March 8, 2024. Plaintiffs filed its Memorandum of Costs on March 19,
2024. Defendant, Peace Apostolic Church, Inc., filed its Memorandum of Costs on
March 27, 2024.
 
II.     
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO TAX THE CHURCH’S COSTS 
       Plaintiffs
argue that the Church is not the prevailing party. The jury awarded Plaintiffs damages
of $219,500 against the Church.  If the
Court determines that the Church is a prevailing party, the Church’s request
for $22,414.37 in costs is unreasonable and unnecessary. 
       In
opposition, the Church argues that it is the prevailing party because it
prevailed on almost 70% of Plaintiffs’ claims and prevented Plaintiffs from
gaining access and control of the Church. The Court should exercise its
discretion and determine that PAC is the prevailing party or the Court should
apportion costs among the Defendants. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs argue the opposition was untimely filed and should be
disregarded. The Church does not fall within any of the statutory definitions
of a “prevailing party.” 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The court may, upon motion or at any time
in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b).)         
       Section 1032 of the Code of Civil
Procedure “is the fundamental statutory authority for awarding costs in civil
actions.” (Leiper
v. Gallegos (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th
284, 297.) Section 1033.5
“is a list of what is, and is not, allowable as a cost, [and] similarly is
trial-court-oriented, with items exclusively related to trial court proceedings
(e.g., references to jury fees, taking depositions, process servers, etc.).” (Stratton
v. Beck (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 901,
910.)” 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The
Court has considered the Church’s opposition filed and served on April 24,
 2024, although it was due on April 22,
 2024, nine court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005
subd. (b).) The Court has discretion to consider late papers in favor of the
strong policy favoring disposition of the case on the merits. (Kapitanski
v. Von’s (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 29, 32, [“Judges are well aware of the
unnecessary burdens placed on courts and counsel when strict compliance with
local procedural rules results in the expenditure of unnecessary time and money
for the preparation of later section 473 motions.”].) Plaintiffs have not shown
any prejudice arising from the late filing. (Id.) The Court has
considered Plaintiffs’ reply.
       A
prevailing party may recover costs as a matter of right. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032 subd. (b).) A prevailing party is defined as “the party
with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is
entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief,
and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief
against that defendant. If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in
situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as
determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion,
may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between the
parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section
1034." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032 subd. (a)(4).)
       The special
verdict found in favor of Plaintiffs on the intentional misrepresentation claim
and awarded damages of $44,500.00 to Plaintiff, John Gonzales, and $135,000 to
Plaintiff, Michael Buck. (Verdict filed 12/14/23.) The jury found in favor of
both Plaintiffs on the concealment claim and awarded $20,000 to each Plaintiff.
(Id.) The Church did not file a cross-complaint against
Plaintiffs. 
       As the parties with a net monetary recovery,
Plaintiffs are the prevailing parties and are entitled to recover costs as a
matter of right. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) 
       The Church argues that, on balance, they
are the prevailing party as they successfully defeated some of Plaintiffs’ claims.
The Church contends that the “net result of the entire litigation” entitles it
to costs notwithstanding Plaintiffs’ net monetary recovery. (Opp. 6:4-8.) The
statute does not define a prevailing party in those terms.
       In Michell
v. Olick (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1194, the party who did not obtain a net
monetary recovery argued that “on balance, Michell did not prevail, as three of
her causes of action were dismissed at the pleading stage (on demurrer), two
were dismissed at trial, and six causes of action were rejected by the jury.
"(Id. at 1196.) As Plaintiff obtained a net money
recovery, she was entitled to costs as a matter of right. (Id.
at 1198; See also DeSaulles
v. Community Hospital of Monterey Peninsula (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1140, 1157
[Plaintiff was the prevailing party although 11 of the plaintiff's causes of
action were not successful. Plaintiff's success on the 12th cause of action for
a jury award of $63,000 entitled plaintiff to costs.].)
V.     
CONCLUSION

       As
the Church has not established it is a prevailing party as defined by statute,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike the Church’s Memorandum of Costs filed on March
27, 2024, is GRANTED. 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR AN AWARD OF
ATTORNEY’S FEES AGAINST DEFENDANTS, PEACE APOSTOLIC CHURCH, INC.; TAMARA SWANCY
PRINCE; AND PRISCILLA WOODS BROWN
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
argue they prevailed against Defendants on the claims for intentional
misrepresentation and concealment. Additionally, the Court found in Plaintiffs’
favor on the equitable claims for unfair business practices and false
advertising. Plaintiffs argue they are entitled to attorney’s fees under Civil
Procedure § 1021.5, the private attorney general statute. Plaintiffs vindicated
significant rights and conferred substantial benefits on the general public in
the church community. Plaintiffs request an attorney’s fees award of
$803,815.11 with a multiplier of two, for a total award of $1,616.870.22.
       In
opposition, Peace Apostolic Church (“Church”), argues that Plaintiffs are not
successful parties and did not vindicate an important right affecting the
public interest. The lawsuit was for Plaintiffs’ personal benefit. Plaintiffs
refused to engage in meaningful settlement. Any fee recovery, if permitted,
should be minimal to reflect Plaintiffs’ minimal success. 
       Defendant
Tamara Swancy-Prince (“Swancy-Prince”) separately opposes the motion on the
same grounds expressed by the Church. Swancy-Prince also argues that the fee
request is unconscionable and without merit. Plaintiffs are not entitled to a
multiplier. 
       Plaintiffs
filed a consolidated reply arguing that Plaintiffs successfully obtained a
preliminary injunction limiting the use of Church funds. Plaintiffs prevailed
on the equitable claims. The lawsuit benefits a large class of people and the
general public. Plaintiffs object to the declaration of John D. O’Conner who
opines as to the reasonable of attorney’s fees. Expert testimony is not
necessary for the Court’s determination. 
 
II.     
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A
party may recover attorney’s fees under Civil Procedure, section 1021.5, if the
requesting party can show that the action “resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or
a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement, or of enforcement by one public entity against another public
entity, are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees
should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if
any." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1021.5.) The statute is an exception to the American rule
that litigants are to bear their own attorney’s fees. (Wal-Mart
Real Estate Business Trust v. City Council of San Marcos (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 614, 620.)
       To
justify an award, the trial court assesses the litigation and determines, “from
a practical perspective, whether or not the action served to vindicate an
important right so as to justify an attorney fee award.” (Department
of Water Resources Environmental Impact Cases (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 556,
571.) 
       Plaintiffs
have not identified that the litigation enforced an important right affecting
the public interest. Rather, the litigation inured solely to the Plaintiffs’
personal benefit. The complaint sought to enforce Plaintiffs’ rights as members
to inspect Church records and to recover Plaintiffs’ tithes that were based on
misrepresentations that donated funds would be used for church purposes.
(Complaint, ¶14.) The jury awarded Plaintiffs personally for damages resulting
from their fraud claims.  
       Plaintiffs
contend that they vindicated important public rights by asserting claims
protecting consumers’ interests under Business & Professions Code, sections
17200 and 17500. (Mot. 9:4-15.) Prevailing plaintiffs under the Unfair
Competition Law, however, are limited to injunctive relief and restitution;
attorney’s fees are not recoverable. (People
ex rel. City of Santa Monica v. Gabriel (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 882, 889.)

       Moreover,
the benefit from the litigation must be conferred on the general public or an
at large class of people. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.5.) Only the Plaintiffs in
this action benefited from the litigation as Plaintiffs recovered their
personal donations. Assuming the Church community could be considered a “large
class of persons,” or the “general public” a benefit was not conferred upon them,
instead, the Church was found liable on Plaintiffs’ individual claims.
       In People
ex rel. Deukmejian v. Worldwide Church of God (1981) 127 Cal.App.3d 547,  the plaintiffs’ attorneys, with the acquiescence
of the California Attorney General, sought to remove church directors, appoint
new directors, and appoint a receiver among other injunctive relief based on
church members’ belief that church officials might be guilty of malfeasance and
misfeasance with respect to church affairs. (Id. at
550.) The Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s denial of
attorney’s fees incurred for procuring and defending the appointment of a
receiver in the action. (Id.) Among other factors
considered by the trial court was that the church and the public did not benefit
from the litigation, and in fact, the church would bear a substantial loss. (Id.
at 558.) 
       Plaintiffs
cite Folsom
v. Butte County Assn. of Governments (1982) 32 Cal.3d 668 which
involved claims of transit-dependent  taxpayers such as the elderly, disabled or
people of limited means who sought relief against county allocations to street
and road projects of government funds. (Id.) The important
public right was based on legislative fundings that public transportation
provided an essential public service. (Id. at 672.) Folsom
observed that the litigation benefited the “citizenry as a whole.” (Folsom
at 684.) Folsom is inapposite. 
       Plaintiffs
contend that the size of the people affected (church members) was between 1200
and 1500 members. (Mot. 10:10-11.) Plaintiffs cite Slayton
v. Pomona Unified School Dist. (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 538 which
involved a class of 900 school students who benefited from litigation which resulted
in a peremptory writ prohibiting the school from “requiring a parental ‘loyalty
oath’ as a condition of student admission, from inflicting corporal punishment
without parental permission, from suspending students for academic deficiencies
or other reasons not permitted by statute, from suspending students without
first exhausting other means, and from neglecting to notify parents when a
student was in danger of failing a course” as such conduct violated the
school’s continuing obligations mandated by the Education Code. (Id.
543-544.)  The Court of Appeal
determined that the legislation benefited students and their benefits as a
whole. (Id. at 552.) The case is also distinguishable. 
 
VI.   
CONCLUSION
       Plaintiffs
have not established the first pivotal element required to support an award of
attorney’s fees under Civil Procedure, section 1021.5. Since the benefits
obtained inured to the Plaintiffs personal benefit, Plaintiffs have not satisfied
the second element: that the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement “are such as to make the award appropriate.” (Id.)
An award of fees under the Private Attorney General Statute serves an equitable
function. (Council
for Education & Research on Toxics v. Starbucks Corp. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 879, 902.) It is not equitable under these circumstances for
Plaintiffs to recover fees for a verdict that inures to their benefit and not
the public’s. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Award of Attorney’s Fees
is DENIED. 
 
 
 
       
 