 Case Number:  21STCV45537    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  A 
21STCV45537
 Grace Rodriguez, et al. v. Paramount Convalescent Group, Inc., dba Paramount
 Convalescent Hospital
Friday May
 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
AGAINST DEFENDANT AND/OR DEFENDANT’S ATTORNEY FOR VIOLATION OF STIPULATION BY
THE PARTIES TO EXCLUDE ALL EVIDENCE OF PRIOR LAWSUITS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The first
amended complaint filed January 8, 2024, alleges that Plaintiff, Grace
Rodriguez, is a sister and heir of Evangeline Rodriguez (“Ms. Rodriguez”), who was
a resident of Defendant’s skilled nursing facility. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant failed to establish mandated safety protocols due to the COVID-19
pandemic. As a result, Ms. Rodriguez died on December 17, 2020, after
contracting the virus. Plaintiffs alleges claims for elder abuse, violation of
residents’ rights, negligence, and wrongful death.
       A jury
trial commenced on March 13, 2024. The Court declared a mistrial on March 18,
2024, at Plaintiffs’ oral request. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
        Plaintiffs move for an order imposing sanctions
against Paramount Convalescent Group, Inc., dba Paramount Convalescent Hospital
(“Paramount” or “Defendant”) pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section
128.5, and for contempt under Code of Civil Procedure, section 1209. Plaintiffs
request monetary sanctions of $68,450 in attorney’s fees and $13,086.13 in costs
incurred relating to Defendant’s violation of Motion in Limine No. 2 (“MIL 2”).
[1]
       In
opposition, Defendant argues that the court erred in declaring a mistrial,
which is warranted only where an error is too serious to be corrected. The
Court ordered the parties to meet and confer on a curative instruction,
accepting the proposition that the error could be addressed to avoid Plaintiffs’
purported prejudice. 
       Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs waived the request for an order of contempt as the
request is not supported by argument or authority. Plaintiffs are not entitled
to Section 128.5 sanctions because Defendant did not engage in “frivolous”
conduct or acted in bad faith. While Defendant acknowledges that the parties
agreed to preclude evidence of prior lawsuits, the examination of Facility
Administrator Spencer Melander (“Mr. Melander”) was not frivolous as Defendant
sought to examine Ms. Rodriguez’s prior conduct, which the witness perceived as
threats, and which was relevant to Ms. Rodriguez’s state of mind.  Mr. Melander’s testimony about another lawsuit
was inadvertent.  The request for
monetary sanctions is unreasonable. 
       The
Court’s eCourt summary does not reflect that Plaintiff filed a reply brief by Tuesday,
April 23, 2024 (five court days before the hearing.) (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005
subd. (b).) 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A
court has discretion to award reasonable expenses including attorney’s fees
incurred as a result of “actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (a).) “Frivolous” actions or tactics means "totally
and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (b)(1) and (2).) 
       The
moving party’s burden is to establish that the action or tactic was "(1)
totally and completely without merit, measured by the objective, ‘reasonable
attorney’ standard, or (2) motivated solely by an intention to harass or cause
unnecessary delay, measured by a subjective standard. [Citations.] Whether
sanctions are warranted depends on an evaluation of all the circumstances
surrounding the questioned action.” (Wallis
v. PHL Associates, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 882, 893.)
 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The
21-day safe harbor provision applies where the “action or tactic” is the filing
of a motion or pleading that is frivolous and without merit. First, the ‘moving
party must serve on the offending party a motion for sanctions.’ (Ibid.)
Service of the sanctions motion triggers the 21-day safe harbor period during
which the moving party may not file the motion. (Ibid.) That is because
the offending party may avoid sanctions by withdrawing the challenged pleading
during the 21-day period. (Ibid.) Second, if the offending party does
not withdraw the challenged pleading during that period, then the moving party
may file the sanctions motion.” (Id.) Strict compliance
with the safe harbor provision is required, and failing to comply precludes an
award of sanctions. (Id. at 551.) 
       Here,
the action or tactic that Plaintiffs complain of is Defendant’s conduct that
occurred during trial. Therefore, the 21-day safe harbor provision does not
apply. 
       Plaintiffs
contend that Defendant violated the parties’ agreement to exclude evidence or
reference to other lawsuits “involving any other party” by parties, attorneys,
and witnesses in the presence of jurors or prospective jurors. (Dawn Smith
Decl., Ex. 2, 2:11-13.) The parties agreed to exclude such evidence, and
defense counsel Jenny Dangerfield emailed the stipulation to Plaintiffs'
counsel on March 7, 2024. (Dawn Smith Decl., Ex. 1.) Defendant acknowledges
that the parties stipulated to preclude such evidence. (Opp. 7:1-5.) Mr. Boags affirmed
that the parties had stipulated to the draft prepared by Ms. Dangerfield,
although the stipulation was not signed. Mr. Boags intended to abide by it.  (Smith decl., Ex. 2, 156:15-19.)
       At
trial on March 18, 2024, Plaintiffs called Spencer Melander, Paramount’s Administrator.
(Tr. Transc. 37:20-22.) On cross-examination, defense counsel Mr. Boags, asked Mr.
Melander whether he ever felt that Ms. Rodriguez was making threats. (Tr.
Transc. 86:10-12.) In response, Mr. Melander said that Ms. Rodriguez mentioned
she had a prior lawsuit against another facility. (Tr. Transc. 86:13-16.) Plaintiffs'
counsel objected and moved to strike as non-responsive, which the Court
overruled. (Tr. Transc. 86:17-18.) The Court was not privy to the parties’
stipulation as it had not been filed. 
       Mr.
Hoags asked why Mr. Melander perceived that comment as a threat. (Tr. Transc. 86:25.)
The witness responded that “when somebody comes in and express that they … were
successful in suing another facility, of course everybody gets a little bit on
edge around that individual.” (Tr. Transc. 86:25-87:1.) Mr. Hoags asked the
witness how the conversation came up and how often, wherein the witness
testified that Ms. Rodriguez explained that she had that “lawsuit,” she had
other incidents, which would make him feel that they were “going to be going
down that road”, and upon further inquiry by Mr. Boags, the witness testified
that the conversation occurred “on a few other occasions.” (Tr. Transc. (87: 3-10.)
       Plaintiff’s
counsel, Ms. Smith, moved for a mistrial, and informed the Court that the
parties stipulated to preclude reference to other lawsuits involving any other
party in the presence of the jury. (Smith decl., Ex. 2, 155:16-26.) Ms. Smith
stated that because of the agreement, Mr. Boags should have instructed his
witnesses not to mention any lawsuits and should have “moved on” after that
testimony, but Mr. Boags asked for more context about that particular
conversation and its frequency. (Tr. Transc. 86-25; 86-25-87:1, 87:3-10.) 
       Defense
counsel argues that a curative instruction would have been appropriate instead
of a mistrial. In support of Defendant’s MIL #2, however, which was a narrower
version of the parties’ stipulation that sought preclusion or reference to
other lawsuits involving Paramount Hospital. Defense counsel argued that such
evidence would create a substantial danger of misleading the jury, would be
prejudicial to Paramount, and would compromise the veracity of testimony of
witnesses waiting to testify. (Def.’s MIL #2 filed 2/5/24, 2:13-20.) 
       Paramount
represents that the Court “accepted” the proposition that a curative
instruction could avoid prejudice and instructed the parties to meet and confer
on possible language for such an instruction. (Opp., 4:2-5.) There is no
evidence on the record to support defense counsel’s speculation.  The Court’s order to meet and confer
regarding a potential curative instruction is not evidence that the Court “accepted”
or concluded anything about the prejudicial impact of Mr. Boags’ questions and
Mr. Melander’s responses. (Tr. Transc. 160: 25-28.)  
       Defendant
was privy to the agreement with Plaintiffs’ counsel, confirmed its existence
and intent to abide by it.  In spite of
this, once the witness mentioned a prior lawsuit, Mr. Boags persisted in
questioning the witness about the context of the conversation and how often it
occurred. Defendant prepared the stipulation and argued that such a reference,
when it came to Paramount would be “substantially dangerous,” and “prejudicial
to Paramount.” Such conduct, given the foregoing facts of what Mr. Boags knew,
the stipulation, and his persistence in questioning the witness about his
conversation with Ms. Rodriguez despite the parties’ agreement, was in bad
faith and was frivolous. 
       Mr.
Boags’ contention that the witnesses’ response was inadvertent, is without
merit. The witness apparently was not prepared to avoid testimony of other
lawsuits. Any purported 
“inadvertent mention” became intentional as Mr. Boags continued his inquiry
about the conversation, eliciting yet more testimony about everyone being “on
edge” about Ms. Rodriguez because of her comments, all of which violated the
parties’ stipulation. 
       The
Court finds that Mr. Boags’ conduct as described above warrants an award in
Plaintiffs’ favor of reasonable expenses including attorney’s fees incurred by
Plaintiffs as a result of defense counsel’s frivolous and bad faith conduct.  Nonetheless, the Court defers the
determination of the amount of expenses to the conclusion of this matter either
by settlement or trial. Plaintiffs who successfully establish an elder abuse
claim are entitled to attorney’s fees and costs. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15657 subd. (a).) 
 
V.   CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ Motion is GRANTED. The Defendant Paramount and
counsel, Mr. Boags, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay Plaintiffs’ costs
and fees pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5. 
In the interest of judicial economy, the Court defers determination of
the amount awarded to the conclusion of this matter. 
       
 
 


