 Case Number:  22VECV00728    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  W ALBERT BOYAJIAN V.
SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS GP, ET AL.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS ABLERT BOYAJIAN AND GLOBAL
CHIPS, INC.’S DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINTS SURGE PRIVATE EQUITY LLC, THOMAS
BEAUCHAMP, LEWIS SHARP AND SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS LP’S CROSS-COMPLAINT
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date of Hearing:        December 13, 2024                          Trial Date:       January
26, 2026   
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV00728
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Albert
Boyajian and Global Chips, Inc. 
Responding Party:      Defendant/Cross-Complainant Surge Private
Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp and Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Brelje Decl. ¶¶4-9.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022,
Plaintiff Albert Boyajian filed a complaint against Defendants Surge Global
Bakeries Holdings LLC, Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP, Surge Global Bakeries
Partners GP, LLC, Surge Private Equity LLC, Surge Private Equity, McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LP, The Firmament Group, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis
Sharp, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd, Tobias Keller, Andy Burchfield, and Ashur
Aghasi for (1) Limited Partner Derivative Suit; (2) Limited Partner Derivative
Suit; (3) Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Breach of Contract; and (5) Breach of
Contract. On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
This action involves
shareholder derivative and direct claims by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he
sold his profitable bakery for an equity position in a parent entity, a place
on the board of directors of his former bakery (now a wholly-owned subsidiary),
and a Consulting Agreement. However, Plaintiff alleges he did not know, when he
sold his company, that the purchase was merely the first step of a lender’s
scheme to exploit the company for the lender’s benefit, entirely contrary to
the best interests of the equity holders. Plaintiff contends after the
purchase, the company unwarrantedly acquired an additional two companies and
took on additional dramatic debt, during periods of mismanagement by inept
managers and the lender who controlled the board. Moreover, since the takeover,
Plaintiff alleges the lender has not given plaintiff any information on the
companies; and has not called a meeting of the board. 
 
On October 1, 2024,
Surge Private Equity LLC, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp and Surge Global
Bakeries Partners LP filed a Cross-Complaint against Albert Boyajian and Global
Chips for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, fraud and deceit, and negligence. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants
Albert Boyajian and Global Chips, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Cross-Defendants Albert Boyajian and Global
Chips, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Cross-Defendants
Albert Boyajian and Global Chips, Inc. demur to the entirety of
Cross-Complainants Surge Global Bakeries Partners, LP, Surge Private Equity,
LLC, Lewis Sharp and Thomas Beauchamp’s Cross-Complaint on the grounds the
Cross-Complaint fails to state facts constituting a cause of action against
Cross-Defendants and is uncertain, ambiguous and unintelligible.
Cross-Defendants also move to strike Cross-Complainants’ punitive damage
allegations. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
demur to the breach of contract cause of action on the grounds the
Cross-Complaint fails to allege what specific terms were allegedly breached and
Cross-Complainants failed to attach copies of the written agreement. 
 
In opposition,
Cross-Complainants argue the demurrer is moot to the breach of contract claim
because Cross-Complainants have agreed to attach the agreements and to amend
the Cross-Complaint accordingly. 
 
The court finds the
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a claim for
breach of contract. Although Cross-Complainants agreed to attach the
agreements, the Cross-Complaint still fails to allege what specific terms of
the agreements were allegedly breached. It is unclear whether the conduct in
paragraph 10 were terms of the agreement. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
The elements for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing are: (1)
existence of a contract between plaintiff and defendant; (2) plaintiff
performed his contractual obligations or was excused from performing them; (3)
the conditions requiring defendant’s performance had occurred; (4) the
defendant unfairly interfered with the plaintiff’s right to receive the
benefits of the contract; and (5) the plaintiff was harmed by the defendant’s
conduct. (Merced Irr. Dist. V. County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal. 2013) 941
F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280 (discussing California law).) Allegations must demonstrate
defendant’s conduct for failure or refusal to discharge contractual
responsibilities was a conscious and deliberate act, not an honest mistake, bad
judgment or negligence. (Id.) “‘[T]he implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of
the contract, and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated by
the contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
182, 206 (quoting Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena (2004) 114
Cal.App.4th 1089, 1094).) 
 
Cross-Defendants
demur to the breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds the
allegations are conclusory and again, has not alleged terms of the contract. 
 
Cross-Complainant
does not address this cause of action. Because the breach of contract action
fails, the court finds the breach of the covenant of good faith also fails.
Although a breach of the covenant of good faith must go beyond the statement of
a mere breach of contract, the breach of convent depends on the breach of
contract. (Green Valley Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 425, 433.)
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fraud and Deceit
 
Elements of action
for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) defendant concealed or
suppressed a material fact; (2) defendant was under duty to disclose the fact
to plaintiff; (3) defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
intent to defraud plaintiff; (4) plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would
not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact;
and (5) as result of concealment or suppression of the fact, plaintiff
sustained damage.  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 877-84.)   Fraud must be
pled with particularity, including facts that show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996)12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for fraud and deceit on the grounds
Cross-Complainants do not allege how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the alleged false representations by the Cross-Defendants were tendered to the
Cross-Complainants and Cross-Complainants do not allege anywhere on the face of
the Cross-Complaint when the Cross-Defendants allegedly had knowledge of these
purported items. Additionally, Cross-Defendants argue the statute of
limitations has run. 
 
In opposition,
Cross-Complainants argue that this court has already ruled the fraudulent
concealment cause of action sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer and
because the allegations in the Cross-Complaint are similar to the allegations
in the complaint, this argument doesn’t apply. Cross-Complainant also argues
the action is not time barred because Cross-Complainants were not necessarily
damaged until recently but even if the claims were time barred, the doctrine of
set-off revives cross-claims up to the millions of dollars Cross-Defendants are
claiming as Plaintiffs. 
 
The court disagrees.
The allegations in the Complaint have no bearing on allegations in the
Cross-Complaint. While the court does agree that the particularity in pleading
fraud is relaxed when it is apparent from the allegations that the defendant
necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts (Tarmann v. State Farm
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158), Cross-Complainants’ fraud cause of action is
still conclusory. Whether or not Cross-Complainants may be able to allege
specific time, place or content of what was concealed, the allegations are too
conclusory. There are no allegations how Cross-Complainants relied on the
misrepresentation, how the fiduciary duty arose between the parties, or that
Cross-Defendants intentionally concealed the information. 
 
As for the statute of
limitations contention, the court agrees Code of Civil Procedure section 431.70
is meant to be for affirmative relief. “[W]hen the Legislature limited the
relief available under section 431.70, but only where ‘the cross-demand would
otherwise be barred by the statute of limitations,’ it was not eliminating the
requirement of filing a cross-complaint to obtain affirmative relief; rather,
it was merely confirming the possibility of full relief where the statute of
limitations imposes no bar.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG
Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198.) The Supreme Court of
California further stated they believe “the best reading of section 431.70 is
that a setoff claim may only be used defensively, being in nature a defensive
pleading asserting that the claim constituted prior payment for the amount
sought in the plaintiff's complaint.” (Construction Protective Services,
Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 197–198.) 
 
However, because the
Cross-Complaint on its face is not clear as to when these events occurred (the
court cannot assume it is the November 28, 2018 agreement), the court SUSTAINS
the cause of action with leave to amend. 

 
Negligence
 
To plead a cause of
action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiffs to
use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292,
318.) “In order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must
allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to
use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)  In California, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
demur to the negligence cause of action on the grounds while negligence may be
pleaded in general terms, Cross-Complainants do not allege what duty
Cross-Defendants purportedly owed them, do not detail the breach of the alleged
duty nor allege any proximate cause in the negligence cause of action.
Cros-Defendant also demurs on the grounds the claim is barred by the statute of
limitations. 
 
The court agrees the
fourth cause of action fails to plead facts sufficient to support a claim for
negligence. There are no allegations regarding what duty was owed, how it was
breached and so on. Moreover, because it is unclear from the Cross-Complaint when
these events occurred, the court SUSTAINS the cause of action with leave to
amend. 
 
Uncertainty
 
The court OVERRULES
the demurrer on uncertainty as the court has sustained the demurrer on the
general demurrer. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Cross-Defendants move
to strike Cross-Complainants allegations and prayer for relief regarding
punitive damages on the grounds the Cross-Complaint is devoid of any specific
facts that would support the finding of malice, oppression, or fraud. 
 
The court agrees
Cross-Complainants have failed alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages. Accordingly, the motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 