  Case Number:  20VECV01429    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  W RICHARD
JACOBSON, et al. v. VALLEY OAKS III CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION INC., et al.
 
plaintiffs
richard jacobson and jennifer jacobson’s motion to set aside dismissal 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
13, 2024                          Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        20VECV01429
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs
Richard Jacobson and Jennifer Jacobson 
Responding Party:     No opposition.    
 
BACKGROUND
 
This lawsuit
arises out of Defendants Valley Oaks III Condominium Association, Hilda Viscarra, Wendy Duran, and
Humberto Granados alleged breach
of contractual obligations concerning the subject property. Plaintiffs claim
Valley Oaks failed to uphold the CC&Rs of the subject property and
defendant Hilda negligently allowed defendants Wendy and Humberto to violate
the CC&Rs. Plaintiffs claim defendant Wendy violated the CC&Rs by
allowing defendant Robert, a guest to the subject property, harass other
members of the Valley Oaks III. 
 
On December
7, 2020, plaintiffs filed a complaint asserting causes of action for (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Breach of Invasion of Privacy; (3) Breach of Implied Covenant
of Quiet Enjoyment; (4) Violation of Davis-Sterling Act; (5) Assault; (6) Negligence;
(7) Intentional/Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (8) Private
Nuisance; and (9) Violation of the Business and Professions Code. 
 
On January
22, 2021, the instant case was related to Case No. 20VERO01790. Plaintiffs
dismissed Valley Oaks III Condominium Association on November 7, 2023. Valley
Oaks dismissed their cross-complaint on November 9, 2023.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs
Richard Jacobson and Jennifer Jacobson’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs move the court for an order granting relief from
dismissal, without prejudice, entered on May 23, 2024 on the grounds that the
dismissal was taken against Plaintiffs due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise
or excusable neglect by Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff intends to request a
default judgment as against Defendants Hilda Viscarra, Wendy Duran, and
Humberto Granados. 
 
“Section 473(b) provides for both discretionary and mandatory
relief [from dismissal]. [Citation.]” (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) An application for relief under this section
must be made no more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied
by an affidavit of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect of the moving party or its attorney. (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 473(b);
English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
Additionally, an application for relief under this section “shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
herein, otherwise the application shall not be granted.” (CCP § 473(b).) Relief
under this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Ibid.) When dismissal is the attorney’s
fault, the six-month period starts to run from the date of the entry of
dismissal. (CCP § 473(b); Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th
294, 295.) 
 
Plaintiff first notes the request is timely. Plaintiff is making
the request for relief less than six months after the dismissal was entered by
the court on May 23, 2024. The court agrees. Moreover, Plaintiff argues there
was attorney excusable neglect, mistake, inadvertence, and/or surprise.
Plaintiff presents counsel’s declaration whereby the hearing for this matter
was not calendared or communicated to Plaintiff’s counsel upon joining the firm
and when Plaintiff’s counsel began working on the default judgment package, she
experienced a personal family matter as well as her own personal health matter
and is currently in the hospital. (Monon Decl. ¶¶4-6.) As a result, Plaintiff’s
failure to appear for the hearing was a result of excusable neglect,
inadvertence, surprise, and/or mistake. 
 
Under the circumstances, the court finds that Plaintiff’s argument
has merit.  Plaintiff has also attached their default judgment package.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs Richard Jacobson and Jennifer Jacobson’s Motion to Set
Aside Dismissal is GRANTED.
 
 