  Case Number:  23AHCV00008    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



EFRAIN TRUJILLO,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
GENERAL
  MOTORS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV00008
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE 
 
Date:   September
  27, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          Efrain Trujillo sues General Motors
for violations of the Song-Beverly Act. His claims concern a 2021 GMC Canyon.
Trujillo alleges that defects and nonconformities having to do with the
transmission and suspension manifested themselves within the warranty period,
and that General Motors was not able to conform them to warranty after a
reasonable number of attempts. 
          Shortly after serving General Motors with the summons and
complaint, Plaintiffs propounded discovery. At issue are Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiffs seek further responses to numbers 16,
19-32, 37-41, and 45-46. For the reasons that follow, the motion is granted as
to 16, 19-32, and 45-46; and denied as to 37-41.  
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
          A party responding to requests for inspection must either
provide a statement of compliance, represent that it lacks the ability to
comply, or object. Code Civ. Proc. §2031.210.
          - If a party responds with a statement of compliance, the
statement must indicate whether production will be allowed in whole or in part and
that all documents in the responding party’s possession, custody or control to
which no objection is being made will be included in the production. Code Civ.
Proc. §2031.220.
          - If a party responds that a particular demand cannot be
complied with it must include a representation that a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry have been made and that the inability to comply is because
the item has never existed, has been lost, stolen, or misplaced, or has never
been in or is no longer in the responding party’s possession, custody, or
control; such response must also identify the name and address of any person or
entity known or believed to have possession, custody, or control of the item or
category of item.  Code Civ. Proc. §2031.230.
          - If a response includes objections, a privilege log
identifying documents being withheld must be provided. Code Civ. Proc.
§2031.240.
          When a party propounding demands for inspection deems
responses to the responses to be incomplete or evasive, or deems objections to
be without merit, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
further responses. Such motion must set forth facts showing good cause for the
discovery, be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, and include a
separate statement. Such motion must also be made within 45 days of verified
responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date
the parties have agreed to in writing. Code Civ. Proc. §2031.310(a)-(c). 
          Code Civ. Proc. §2031.310 (h) provides for the imposition
of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes
such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction acted
with substantial justification, or that other circumstances make the imposition
of sanctions unjust.
 
III.     ANALYSIS
          A. Procedural History
          Trujillo served RFP, Set One, on February 24, 2023.
Declaration of Phil A. Thomas, ¶5 and Exhibit A. General Motors served
unverified responses on April 25, 2023, with verifications following on May 10,
2023. Id. at ¶¶6 and 7 and Exhibits B and C. 
          In response to RFPs 16, 19-32, 37-41 and 45-46, General
Motors responded with objections only, and stated that no documents would be
produced. 
          Trujillo’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter on May 25,
2023. Id. at ¶10, and Exhibit D. General Motors wrote a responsive
letter on June 6, 2023. Id. at ¶11 and Exhibit E. In this letter,
General Motors indicates that it will produce some documents, subject to a
protective order. In particular, General Motors stated that with respect to
RFPs 16 and 19-32, GM “will agree to produce its Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual for the relevant time period, and its policies and procedures used to
evaluate lemon law claims and repurchase requests made under the Song-Beverly during
the relevant time period” pursuant to protective order. Additional meet and
confer letters were exchanged. Id. at ¶¶12 and 13 and Exhibits F and G. On
June 7, 2023, the parties entered into a protective order, following which
General Motors produced additional documents. Id. at ¶¶14 and 15.      B. Further Responses Are Required as to
RFPs 16, 19-32, and 45-46
          In response to RFPs 16, 19-32 and to 45 and 46, General
Motors responded with objections only and indicated that no documents would be
produced. Later, in meet and confer letters, it indicated that certain
responsive documents would be produced once a protective order was in place.
The evidence seems to be that this occurred. However, since General Motors never
amended its responses, the document production does not match the response.
Trujillo is entitled to a supplemental response to these RFPs indicating
whether General Motors is or has complied in whole or in part, and whether any
responsive documents are being withheld pursuant to privilege. 
          C. No Further Responses Are Required as to RFPs 37-41
          These RFPs seek documents “sufficient to identify” and
“sufficient to show” various codes for vehicles of the same year, make and
model as the one at issue. 
For example, RFP #37 asks for
“DOCUMENTS sufficient to identify all of YOUR OBDII codes for the same year,
make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” RFP #38 seeks, “DOCUMENTS sufficient
to show all of YOUR vehicle symptom codes for the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” These are representative of this set of RFPs.  Because these ask for “all” codes, rather than all
codes pertaining to transmission and suspension issues, the objection that the
RFPs are overly broad and seek irrelevant information is well taken and is sustained.

          D. Request for Monetary Sanction is Denied
          The Court declines to find that this motion was opposed
without substantial justification. The request for a monetary sanction is therefore
denied. 
 
IV.     ORDER
           Trujillo’s motion to compel further responses
is granted as to RFPs 16, 19-32, 45 and 46 is granted. General Motors is
ordered to provide further, verified, code-complaint responses within 20 days
of notice of this order. The motion is otherwise denied. The request for a
monetary  sanction is denied. Trujillo is
ordered to provide notice.
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT