 Case Number:  BC723513    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion for Reconsideration
Second Site LLC vs. Paul Scott, et al., BC723513
Moving Party: Defendant Los Angeles Wellness Center

Responding Party: Plaintiff
Second Site, LLC

Background
            On August
15, 2023, this Court granted Plaintiff Second Site, LLC’s (Plaintiff) motion to
compel further answers to deposition questions. The Court granted the motion
because the person most qualified (PMQ) provided by Defendant Los Angeles
Wellness Center (Defendant) was unable to answer several of the questions asked
by Plaintiff at the deposition and did not appear to have to much knowledge of
the corporation. There were several questions where the PMQ, Mr. Alireza
Shekarchian, answered by stating that he did not know the answer, or by stating
that another person in the organization would be more qualified to answer the
question.
            Pursuant to
CCP § 1008(a), Defendant filed this motion for reconsideration on the basis
that it did not have an opportunity to oppose the motion to compel further
answers. Defendant claims that its attorney was not served with the motion to
compel because Plaintiff used a different method of electronic service than it
usually uses. Defendant also claims that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer on
over 80 questions in the motion to compel. Defendant included a proposed
opposition to the motion to compel further answers with its motion to
reconsider.
            Plaintiff
argues in opposition that Defendant has not argued a proper basis for a motion
for reconsideration. A motion for reconsideration must be supported by new
facts, law, or circumstances. Further, Plaintiff argues that Defendant was
served in the same manner that Plaintiff had been serving Defendant previously.
Pursuant to CCP § 2025.450(j), Plaintiff has requested $2,000.00 in sanctions
against Defendant for Plaintiff having to oppose this motion.
            Defendant
argues in its reply that the information it has argued in its motion amount to new
facts and circumstances. Defendant further argues that Plaintiff failed to
establish any resulting prejudice from granting the reconsideration motion.
Analysis
            CCP §
1008(a) allows a party to file a motion for reconsideration if there are new or
different facts, circumstances, or law that were not available at the time the
motion was heard.
            Defendant
is not arguing any new law. Rather, Defendant is arguing that there is new and
different information. Defendant argues that the new and different information
that it has provided is that service of the motion was irregular and that there
was a failure to meet and confer prior to the motion to compel being filed. 
            As to the service
issue, Plaintiff filed proof of service with the motion to compel further
answers on July 17, 2023. Defendant claims that it was not served or that
service was irregular because Defendant’s counsel was out of the country.
Plaintiff argues in opposition that it did serve Defendant. Regardless, the
issue of service does not change the Court’s analysis of the facts that were
presented on the motion, where the Court found that the answers of Defendant’s
PMQ were lacking. 
            Whether a
proper meet and confer took place is immaterial to the Court’s prior analysis. That
does not change the fact that the person provided by Defendant for the
deposition appeared to be unable to answer several questions.
            Though the
Court does not need to consider Defendant’s proposed opposition to the motion
to compel further answer, the Court will note that nothing in that opposition
would have changed the Court’s prior ruling.
            The Court’s
prior ruling stands. The Court denies Defendant’s motion for reconsideration.
No new sanctions will be awarded on this motion.
Order
            Defendant’s
motion for reconsideration is denied.