 Case Number:  22STCV05758    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to Strike Answers
Dong Youb Lee vs. Academy of Couture Art, Inc., et al.,
22STCV05758

Moving Party: Dong Youb Lee

Background
            Plaintiff
Dong Youb Lee (Plaintiff) filed this motion to strike the answers of Defendants
Academy of Couture Art, Inc.; Hollywood World Entertainment Incorporated; and
Global Entertainment Management, Inc., (Defendants) in their entirety.
Plaintiff filed this motion pursuant to CCP §§ 435 and 436 on the grounds that
Defendants are corporate entities that have not been represented by counsel
since June 2, 2023, and corporate entities are not able to appear in this
proceeding in pro per. Plaintiff has also moved for a court order entering
default against Defendants if their answers are stricken.
            No
opposition has been filed by Defendants. 
Analysis
            CCP § 436
provides that “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or
at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state…”
            California
Business and Professions Code §6125 provides that “[n]o person shall practice
law in California unless the person is an active licensee of the State Bar.” A
corporation, unlike a natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of
record in propria persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate
officer, director or other employee who is not an attorney. (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
A corporation must be represented by licensed counsel in proceedings before
courts of record. (Id.) If the corporate agent who would likely appear
on behalf of the corporation in court proceedings, e.g., an officer or
director, is not an attorney, that person would be engaged in the unlicensed
practice of law. (Id.)
            Defendants
are not currently represented by counsel. They cannot represent themselves in
pro per, as that would constitute the unauthorized practice of law. Because
these corporate Defendants cannot represent themselves, their answers are
stricken pursuant to CCP § 436.
            Further, lack
of an answer may lead to a judgment upon answer or default for want of an
answer. (Hearst v. Hart (1900) 128 Cal. 327, 328.) Because the Court has
stricken Defendants’ answers, the Defendants are subject to an entry of default
against them. The Court enters default against Defendants.
Order
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion to strike the answers of Defendants Academy of
Couture Art, Inc.; Hollywood World Entertainment Incorporated; and Global
Entertainment Management, Inc., is granted.
2.      Default
is entered against Defendants Academy of Couture Art, Inc.; Hollywood World
Entertainment Incorporated; and Global Entertainment Management, Inc.