  Case Number:  22STCV19770    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LETICIA VASQUEZ,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT,
  ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV19770
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
EX PARTE APPLICATION TO STRIKE
  PRIVILEGED MATERIALS
 
Date: July 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Central
Basin Municipal Water District (“District”) and Alex Rojas (“Rojas”)
(collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Leticia
Vasquez (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of a complaint by
Plaintiff, an elected public official who serves on the District’s Governing
Board (the “Board”), against the District and its general manager, Rojas, among
other defendants.  Plaintiff’s complaint
(the “Complaint”) alleges violations of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act (the
“Bane Act”). The Complaint alleges that Defendants violated the Bane Act by
preventing Plaintiff from exercising her right to freedom of speech under the
United States Constitution and the California Constitution. 
 
            On March 21, 2024, Defendants filed
a Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication (the “MSJ”) on
Plaintiff’s claims.  On June 20, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the MSJ (“Opposition”), and concurrently
filed her declaration in support of the Opposition (the “Vasquez Declaration”),
attaching certain exhibits thereto. 
 
            On June 24, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant Ex Parte Application to Strike Privileged Materials (the “Motion”),
seeking to strike portions of the Vasquez Declaration and certain exhibits
thereto from Plaintiff’s Opposition and from the Court’s records.  On the same day, Plaintiff filed her
opposition to the Application.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Plaintiff’s Objection to the Declaration of Victor
Ponto (“Ponto”) (the “Ponto Decl.”), Number 1 is sustained.
 
Plaintiff’s Objection to the Ponto Decl., Numbers 2
through 5 are overruled.
             
DISCUSSION
Defendants
contend that identified portions of Exhibits Nos. 3 through 5 to the Vasquez
Declaration are protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney
work-product privilege, and should thus be stricken.
 
Attorney-Client Privilege
            Evidence Code section 954 states:
“…the
client, whether or not a party, has a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to
prevent another from disclosing, a confidential communication between client
and lawyer if the privilege is claimed by:
(a)
The holder of the privilege;
(b)
A person who is authorized to claim the privilege by the holder of the
privilege; or
(c)
The person who was the lawyer at the time of the confidential communication,
but such person may not claim the privilege if there is no holder of the
privilege in existence or if he is otherwise instructed by a person authorized
to permit disclosure.”
 
Attorney
Work-Product Privilege
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2018.030 provides for the attorney work-product
privilege: “A writing that reflects an attorney’s impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal research or theories is not discoverable under any
circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (a).) “The work product of
an attorney, other than a writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable
unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice
the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will
result in an injustice.” (Id., § 2018.030, subd. (b).)
 
Exhibit
3 to the Vasquez Declaration (the “Report”)
Ponto,
a partner with
Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP (“BWS”), general counsel for the District,
states in his declaration that the Report is a confidential investigation
report authored by Carr, Riggs, & Ingram, LLC (“CRI”), an agent of his office.  (Ponto Decl., ¶ 7.)  The Court notes, however, that there is no
evidence to support the contention that CRI is an agent of Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP.  To the contrary, evidence suggests that CRI
was retained by the District to conduct an investigation well before Ponto or BWS
was retained as general counsel for the District.  The Board authorized the contract with CRI during
its regular meeting held on November 27, 2023, whereas Ponto served as general
counsel for the District only in January 2024. 
(Minutes of the November 27, 2023 Board Meeting, Exhibit 1 to the Vasquez
Declaration; Ponto Decl., ¶ 2.)  As such,
CRI does not qualify as an “agent” of Burke, Williams & Sorensen, LLP whose
work product or communications would be covered by the attorney work-product
privilege or by the attorney-client privilege.  Thus, the Court finds that the Report is not
privileged.
 
Exhibit 4 to the Vasquez
Declaration (the “Correspondence”)
Defendants
contend that the Correspondence includes confidential attorney-client
communications.  (Ponto Decl., ¶ 11.)  Defendants acknowledge that the first three
pages of the Correspondence are not privileged because they were sent to an
outside entity. Additionally, the top part of page 4, which pertains to
Plaintiff’s correspondence with Mr. Wilson, is also not privileged.  Defendants argue, however, that the rest of
the Correspondence is protected by the attorney-client privilege.  (Id.) 
The Court agrees that apart from the portion conceded as not privileged,
the rest of the Correspondence consists of communications between Ponto, as
general counsel of the Board, and Plaintiff, in her capacity as member of the
Board.  As such, the portion of the
Correspondence pertaining to the email exchange between Ponto and Plaintiff is covered
by the attorney-client privilege and should thus be stricken.
 
Exhibit 5 to the Vasquez
Declaration (the “Memorandum)
A cursory
reading of the Memorandum indicates that it consists of legal opinion and
guidance provided by Porto to the Board as its counsel.  (Ponto Decl., ¶¶ 12-15.)  Therefore, it is a protected attorney-work
product and is also covered by the attorney-client privilege.  As such, the Memorandum is stricken in its
entirety.
 
In accordance
with the above discussion and the Court’s findings, portions of the Vasquez
Declaration referencing privileged portions of the Correspondence and the
Memorandum should be removed from the record. 
Specifically, the first sentence of paragraph 4, lines 6-9, and the
entirety of paragraph 5 of the Vasquez Declaration are stricken.  
 
            Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED in
part, and GRANTED in part.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 3rd day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



