 Case Number:  23STCV14422    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SAEED FARKHONDEHPOUR,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
COCHRAN, DAVIS & ASSOCIATES, PC, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV14422
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTIONS TO QUASH AND/OR LIMIT DEPOSITION
  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS 
 
Date: July 3, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Saeed Farkhondehpour (“Farkhondehpour”) and Illusion Holdings, LLC (“Illusion”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
Cochran, Davis & Associates, PC, Jeffrey Thomas Bolson, and Joan E. Cochran
(collectively, “Defendants”)
 
The
Court considered the moving and opposition papers.  No reply papers are filed.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action stems from a legal malpractice claim brought by Plaintiffs
against Defendants and other parties.
 
On
various dates in April 2024, Defendants served deposition subpoenas for
production of business records (the “Subpoenas”) on Alon, LLP (“Alon”); First
Credit Bank (“FCB”); Rosenheim & Associates, Inc. (“Rosenheim”); and
Jonathan Hakakha (“Hakakha”).  
 
On
May 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed four separate motions to quash and/or limit the Subpoenas
(the “Motions”). 
 
On
June 20, 2024, Defendants filed oppositions to each of the four Motions.  Plaintiffs did not file a reply.
             
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, a party may move for orders to quash a
subpoena for the production of documents, as well as orders “modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.  In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
 
A motion to quash a deposition subpoena or
deposition notice is used to strike, modify, or impose conditions on a subpoena
or notice that is procedurally or substantively defective. (See Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1987.1, subd. (a), 2025.410, subd. (c); see, e.g., Catholic Mut.
Relief Soc’y v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 358, 365 [motion based on
ground that subpoenas sought information outside scope of discovery]; John
B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186 [motion based in part on
ground that subpoenas violated right of privacy]; McClatchy Newspapers v.
Superior Court (1945) 26 Cal.2d 386, 391 [motion based on ground that
subpoenas were unreasonable and oppressive]; Far W. S&L Assn. v.
McLaughlin (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 67, 71 [motion based on ground that
subpoena was not properly served]; City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 883, 888 [procedural remedy for a defective subpoena is
generally a motion to quash under § 1987.1].) 
 
A deposition subpoena may be quashed for
the following:¿(1) defects in form or content of the subpoena (e.g., inadequate
description of requested records); (2) defects in service of the subpoena
(e.g., failure to satisfy the requirements of providing notice to consumer);
(3) requesting¿production of records not within the permissible scope of
discovery, i.e. privileged, privacy or attorney work product; or not “relevant
to the subject matter”; (4) being unjustly burdensome or oppressive; (5) with
regard to requested ESI discovery, objection to the specified form for
producing the ESI (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.8(c)) or objection to production on
the ground that the ESI is from a source that is not reasonably accessible
because of undue burden and expense (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.8(e)); (6) “consumer’s”
right of privacy in “personal records” (Code Civ. Pro. § 1985.3(e)); and (7)
employee’s right of privacy in “employment records” (Code Civ. Pro. §
1985.6(e).)¿ (Weil & Brown,¿Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶¿8:598.) Further, a
court may quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect
parties, witnesses, or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands
including violations of privacy.  (Code
Civ. Pro., §1987.1.)
 
            Here, Plaintiffs move to limit the Subpoenas
on the ground that they are overly broad, seek information that is either
irrelevant or beyond the reasonable scope of permissible discovery, and unduly
invade an individual’s right of privacy.
Relevance
All
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action
is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Pro. § 2017.010; Schnabel v.
Super. Ct. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Super. Ct.
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  The
burden is on the party seeking constitutionally protected information to
establish direct relevance.  (Harris
v. Super. Ct. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.)
 
Here,
Defendants assert that Alon is Farkhondehpour’s former attorney and is believed
to be in custody, possession and control of relevant, unprivileged documents
relating to Plaintiffs’ allegations and Defendants’ defenses in this action,
specifically relating to the lot line adjustment and the division of the subject
property.  Defendants also assert that FCB
provided a loan to Farkhondehpour and Morad Ben Neman (“Neman”) relating to the
Medallion property (the “Property”), and that the refinancing with FCB was
completed at the same time the lot line adjustment was pursued by Plaintiffs
and Neman.  Therefore, Defendants contend
that the bank loan and any related communications are relevant to this case.  
 
Similarly,
Defendants assert that Hakakha was a loan broker Plaintiffs used in connection
with the Medallion refinancing in 2015, and that this refinancing was completed
at the same time that the lot line adjustment was pursued by Plaintiffs and
Neman.  Under these circumstances,
Defendants contend that Hakaka’s testimony and file are key to their
defense.  Finally, Defendants assert that
Rosenheim was the expert on land use entitlements whom Farkhondehpour hired in relation
to the phase 2 development of the Property, and that it produced documents
pursuant to a subpoena issued by the arbitrator, including documents relating
to phase 2 of the development of the Property. 
Thus, communications with Rosenheim and documents relating to Illusion
in the possession, custody and control of Rosenheim would also be relevant.  
 
Based
on Defendants’ assertions, the Court finds that the information sought in the Subpoenas
is relevant or appear reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and are appropriate for discovery through the Subpoenas.
 
Privacy 
When
the information sought to be discovered impacts a person’s constitutional right
to privacy, limited protections come into play for that person.  (Shaffer v. Super. Ct. (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 993, 999.)  The protections
cover both a person’s personal and financial matters.  (Id.) 
The court must balance competing rights — the right of a litigant to
discover relevant facts and the right of an individual to maintain reasonable
privacy — in determining whether the information is discoverable.  (Id.) 
 
The
party asserting a privacy interest must establish the extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing the court
must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.  (Williams v. Super. Ct. (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.)  What suffices to
justify an invasion will vary according to the context. (Id.)  Only obvious invasions of interests
fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.  (Hill v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1,34-35.)
 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not
established the extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion of privacy.  Plaintiffs assert a right to privacy, but state
nothing more in support of their assertion. 
Moreover, the right to privacy under the California Constitution is only
applicable to natural persons and does not apply to corporations.  (Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corporation (1983)
147 Cal.App.3d 770, 794-795.)  Here, the Subpoenas
request records for Illusion, an entity which has no constitutional right to
privacy.  Furthermore, the Court notes
that the Subpoenas contained an instruction to redact any consumer’s private
information.  (Motions, Exhibit A, p. 3.)
 Plaintiffs’ claim of invasion of the right
to privacy thus lacks merit.
 
Overbreadth
To
the extent Plaintiffs assert that the requests are overbroad, Defendants claim
that their defense counsel offered to narrow the scope of the subpoenas and for
the parties to sign a stipulated protective order.  Defendants claim that Plaintiffs’ counsel
appeared initially receptive, but that no response was received from Plaintiffs’
counsel after subsequent follow-ups.  (Declaration
of Maryam Karson in Support of Opposition to the Motions, ¶¶ 3-7.)  The Court notes that Plaintiffs did not
refute Defendants’ assertion regarding Plaintiffs’ counsel’s lack of
communication with Defendants’ counsel to potentially resolve objections
regarding the scope of the subpoenas before filing the Motions.  The Court finds that the Subpoenas are not overbroad
and declines to limit their scope.
 
Monetary Sanctions
The
court may, in its discretion, order the losing party to pay the prevailing
party's expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, incurred on the motion
to quash, if it finds that the motion was “made or opposed in¿bad
faith¿or¿without substantial justification¿or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Pro., § 1987.2(a).)¿
 
Here,
the Court does not find that the Motions could have been avoided by Plaintiffs’
fully participating in the meet and confer efforts that were begun on the
Subpoenas.  Therefore, the Court finds
that sanctions are appropriate because the Motions were made in bad faith or
without substantial justification.  Thus,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for sanctions, but not in the full amount
requested of over $8,625, representing over 20 hours of work.  The Court instead exercises its discretion
and awards Defendants sanctions in the reasonable amount of $1,000, payable by
Plaintiffs and their counsel, jointly and severally, within twenty days of the
date of this order.  
 
RULING
Based
on all the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motions are DENIED.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 3rd day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



