  Case Number:  22TRCV00417    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARY
  MAGUIRE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00417




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SUNG
  SOO PARK, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 26, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Sung Soo Park and Kyung Mee Jyung
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Mary Maguire
(1)  
Demurrer
to FAC
(2)  
Motion
to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first
cause of action and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second and third
causes of action. 
The
motion is DENIED as to para. 28 (under the 1st cause of action for fraud), and
prayer 3 except the court STRIKES the amount.  See Civil Code §3295(e) (“No claim for
exemplary damages shall state an amount or amounts.”).
The
motion is GRANTED as to paragraphs. 38, 39, 40, 49, and prayer 5, 6, and 7 in
light of the ruling on the demurrer as to the second and third causes of
action.
Moving defendants are ordered to
file an answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On June 2, 2022, Mary Maguire filed
a complaint against Sung Soo Park, Kyung Mee Jyung, Eun Bin Park, Eun Jae Park,
Awesome Medical Company, and HepaHope for (1) fraud and deceit, (2) conversion,
(3) elder abuse under Welfare & Institutions Code §15610 et seq., (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) negligent infliction of
emotional distress, and (6) breach of contract. 

            On October 17, 2022, the court
sustained with leave to amend defendant Eun Jae Park’s demurrer as to the first,
third, and fourth causes of action and sustained the demurrer without leave to
amend as to the second and fifth causes of action.  The motion to strike was deemed moot.
            On November 4, 2022, plaintiff filed
a FAC for (1) fraud and deceit, (2) elder abuse, (3) IIED, and (4) breach of
contract.
            On February 10, 2023, the court
overruled Eun Jae Park and Eun Bin Park’s demurrer to the FAC as to the first
cause of action and sustained without leave to amend as to the second and third
causes of action.
            On September 21, 2023, the court
granted defendants Eun Jae Park and Eun Bin Park’s motions to compel further
responses to special interrogatories, set one.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
            Demurrer
Defendants
Sung Soo Park and Kyung Mee Jyung demurrer to the first, second, and third
causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The FAC
alleges that defendants use a series of defunct business entities to make it
appear as though they are wealthy individuals who own and operate several
successful companies.  Defendants
proclaim that they are the owners of valuable patents in the medical field.  Sung Soo Park claims to be a medical doctor.  Defendants made these and other false
representations to plaintiff to trick plaintiff into leasing the subject
property in 2019.  FAC, ¶11. In May 2019,
defendants conspired to trick plaintiff into agreeing to lease the subject
property to them.  Defendants, in their
oral and written communications with plaintiff, represented that they were very
wealthy individuals who owned valuable medical patents and companies.  Specifically, defendants represented that Sung
Soo Park was owner and operator of defendant Awesome Medical Company, LLC from
which he made a salary of $750,000 per year.  They also claimed that he was the owner and
operator of HepaHope, Inc. from which he made a salary of $350,000 per year.  These claims were false, and defendants knew
them to be false and intended that plaintiff would rely on such statements in
agreeing to lease the subject property to them. Id., ¶12.
The FAC
further alleges that in early May 2019, defendant Eun Jae Park told plaintiff’s
agent Molly Hobin that his dad defendant Sung Soo Park was a doctor who held
many valuable 
patents.  He
told Hobin that he and the other defendants were in the process of looking for
20,000 square feet of commercial space in El Segundo to house their company.  These statements were not true.  In reality, defendants were not paying their
rent for their commercial space and would be evicted for such later in the
year.  Id., ¶13.  In early May 2019, defendant Eun Jae Park and
the other defendants told Hobin that they had sold their house in Palos Verdes
and that that was the reason they were looking for a rental.  On the rental application, defendants Eun Jae
Park and Eun Bin Park, who helped their parents fill out the rental
application, stated that the reason for leaving their prior property was that
they had “sold it,” but this was not true as they had not sold their property;
rather it was foreclosed upon by a bank.  These statements were made to Hobin and on the
rental application to create a false impression that defendants were wealthy
people who could easily afford the rent being charged by plaintiff for her
property.  Id., ¶14.  On the rental application dated May 6, 2019,
defendants Eun Jae Park and Eun Bin Park filled out for their parents, the sons
stated that their dad worked for two companies, Awesome Medical Company LLC and
Hepahope, Inc.  Neither of these companies
appear to have actually existed other than on paper and both are listed as suspended
on the California Secretary of State’s website. The rental application lists
Sung Soo Park’s income from these two companies as $1.1 million. Id., ¶15.
            The
FAC also alleges that after defendants scammed and influenced plaintiff into
relinquishing control of the property, defendants continued to make false
promises and representations to plaintiff.  Defendants conspired to use coercion,
misrepresentations, and undue influence against plaintiff in an effort to
continue to not pay the rent that was due.  They also made false promises and
representations regarding their ability to pay future rent, their ability to
move out, and their future plans with regard to the property. Id., ¶16.  They refused to provide information regarding
the property and refused to allow plaintiff entry despite plaintiff’s proper
and lawful notices.  They refused to
cooperate with plaintiff and allow plaintiff or her representatives onto the property
(1) for required insurance verification procedures, (2) to allow plaintiff to
access and fix a heater that defendants complained about and that at the time
was under warranty, and (3) plaintiff’s attempts to market the property for
sale.  Defendant Kyung Mee Yung
impersonated plaintiff to forestall lawful service of process on her.  Id., ¶17. Beginning in 2020 and continuing to
2022, defendants exercised total control over the subject property and refused
to yield such control to plaintiff, despite plaintiff’s legal ownership of the
property.  Id., ¶18.
            The
court notes that on February 10, 2023, as to Eun Jae Park (“EJ Park”) and Eun
Bin Park (“EB Park”)’s demurrer to the FAC, the court overruled the first cause
of action and sustained without leave to amend the second and third causes of
action in the FAC.  EJ Park and EB Park
are alleged to be the sons, agents, and authorized representatives of moving defendants
Sung Soo Park and Kyung Mee Jyung, who were served after the ruling on the
demurrer to the FAC.
                        First cause of action for fraud and
deceit
The
elements of fraud are:  “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 184 (citation omitted). 
In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be
pled with specificity.  Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184. 
“The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts
which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered.’”  Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1469 (citation omitted). 
Plaintiff
alleges that in May 2019, defendants knowingly made false, fraudulent, and
misleading representations to plaintiff regarding the true nature of their
employment, their wealth, their business history, and their prior rental
history in an attempt to gain possession and control of the subject property
from plaintiff.  Defendants EJ Park, EB
Park, and Sung Soo Park misrepresented that Sung Soo Park was a medical doctor
who owned a big company with valuable medical patents. FAC, ¶20. In early May
2019, defendant EJ Park told Hobin that he and the other defendants were in the
process of looking for 20,000 square feet of commercial space in El Segundo to
house their company. These statements were not true. Id., ¶21.  In early May 2019, defendant EJ Park and the
other defendants told Hobin that they sold their house in Palos Verdes and that
that was the reason they were looking for a rental.  On the rental application for plaintiff’s
property, defendants EJ Park and EB Park, who helped their parents fill out the
rental application, stated that the reason for leaving their prior property was
that they had “sold it,” but the statements were not true as the property had
been foreclosed upon.  The statements
were made to Hobin and on the rental application to create a false impression
that defendants were wealthy people who could easily afford the rent being
charged by plaintiff for her property. Id., ¶22.
The FAC
further alleges that on the rental application dated May 6, 2019, that
defendants EJ Park and EB Park filled out for their parents, the sons stated
that their dad worked for two 
companies, Awesome Medical Company LLC and HepaHope,
Inc. Neither of these companies 
appear to have actually existed other than on paper,
and both are listed as suspended on the 
California Secretary of State’s website. The rental
application lists Sung Soo Park’s income from 
these two companies as $1.1 million. This was not
true. Additionally, defendants made numerous 
false statements and represented themselves to
plaintiff as legitimate in an attempt to convince 
plaintiff that defendants were suitable renters for
plaintiff’s property and would pay the rent due. 
Defendants represented to plaintiff that they were
wealthy individuals who made a lot of money 
from the companies that they owned and controlled,
that they had good history as tenants, and 
that they would pay all rent when due and vacate the
property upon expiration of the lease. Id., 
¶23. 
The FAC
further alleges that these representations and documents were false and
defendants knew them to be false. Id., ¶24. Plaintiff was unaware of the
falsity and justifiably relied upon them. Id., ¶25. Plaintiff could not have
with reasonable diligence have discovered defendants’ misrepresentations. Id.,
¶26.
Defendants
argue that the allegations are insufficient.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient.
The court
finds that the allegations are sufficient to meet the elements and are plead
with particularity, as to each of the moving defendants.
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.
Second cause
of action for violation of Welfare and Institutions Code §§ 15610, et seq. 
Financial
elder abuse occurs when a person takes the property of an elder for a wrongful
use or with intent to defraud or by undue influence.  See Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.30(a).  A person is deemed to have taken the property
when he or she has deprived an elder of any property right.  See id. §15610.30(c).  Although bad faith or intent to defraud is no
longer required, wrongful use of property must still be alleged.  Stebley v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP
(2011) 202 Cal. App. 4th 522, 527-28.  “A
person . . . shall be deemed to have taken . . . property for a wrongful use if
. . . the person . . . takes . . . the property and the person . . . knew or
should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder . . .
.”  Id. §15610.30(b).
The FAC
alleges the same as under the first cause of action.
The court
finds that the allegations are insufficient as to intent to defraud an elder
and undue influence of an elder. The allegations do not support that defendants
knew or should have known that their conduct was likely to be harmful to
plaintiff.  Rather the FAC alleges that
the misrepresentations were made to Hobin (and not to plaintiff) and that the
rental application was to The Hobin Company.  There are no allegations that defendants were
aware that plaintiff was an elder before making the misrepresentations or
entering into the lease agreement.  
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Third cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress 
The
elements of an intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action
are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to
cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress;
(3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and 
proximate causation of the emotional distress.  See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp.
(2013) 
221 Cal. App. 4th 768, 780.  To satisfy the element of extreme and
outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’” Moncada,
supra, at 780 (citation omitted).  “Behavior
may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position
which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the
plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.” 
McDaniel v. Gile (1991) 230 Cal. App. 3d 363, 372.
“[I]t is
not enough that the defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or
even criminal, or that he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even
that his conduct has been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation
which would entitle the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.”  Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 488, 496. “Liability has been found only where the conduct has been
so outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all
possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and 
utterly intolerable in a civilized community.”  Id. While there is no bright-line as to
what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case
analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at
the demurrer stage.  Id. at 494. 
            The
court finds that the allegations are insufficient as they do not show extreme
and outrageous conduct.  Further,
plaintiff did not allege anything more in the FAC after the court sustained the
demurrer to this cause of action with leave to amend.
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Motion to
Strike
            Defendants
request that the court strike page 8, lines 21-23, para. 28 (punitive damages);
page 11, lines 10-12, para. 38 (attorney fees); page 11, lines 13-15, para. 39
(punitive damages); page 11, lines 16-17, para. 40 (treble damages); page 14,
lines 1-3, para. 49 (punitive damages); page 15, lines 6-8 (prayer at no. 3)
(“at least $1,000,000”); page 15, lines 9-11 (prayer no. 5) (attorney’s fees);
page 15, lines 12-13 (prayer no. 6) (treble damages); and page 15, lines 14-15
(prayer no. 7) (damages of double value of property wrongfully taken under
Probate Code §859).
The court
rules as follows:  As to punitive
damages, the allegations are sufficient as plaintiff has adequately pled
fraudulent conduct by moving defendants and thus a basis for recovery of
punitive damages. The motion is DENIED as to para. 28 (under the 1st cause of
action for fraud), and prayer 3 except the court STRIKES the amount.  See Civil Code §3295(e) (“No claim for
exemplary damages shall state an amount or amounts.”).
The
motion is GRANTED as to paragraphs. 38, 39, 40, 49, and prayer 5, 6, and 7 in
light of the ruling on the demurrer as to the second and third causes of
action.
            
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first cause of action and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second and
third causes of action.  
The
motion is DENIED as to para. 28 (under the 1st cause of action for fraud), and
prayer 3 except the court STRIKES the amount.  See Civil Code §3295(e) (“No claim for
exemplary damages shall state an amount or amounts.”).
The
motion is GRANTED as to paragraphs. 38, 39, 40, 49, and prayer 5, 6, and 7 in
light of the ruling on the demurrer as to the second and third causes of
action.
Moving defendants are ordered to
file an answer within twenty days.
            Moving
defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling.