  Case Number:  22BBCV00765    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  KRISTA PANSINI, et al.,                        Plaintiffs,            v. BURBANK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,                        Defendant. Case No.:  22BBCV00765   Hearing Date:  March 29, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS BY EACH PLAINTIFF RESPONSIVE TO DEMANDS NO. 22 AND 23  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiffs Krista Pansini, Jane Creager, Vick Astamendi Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt-Valverde, Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, Michael Kimmel, and Marlene Wieden (“Plaintiffs”) allege that they were employees of Defendant Burbank Unified School District (“Defendant” or “BUSD”) at all times relevant for this action. Plaintiffs allege that they filed charges with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) and were issued right-to-sue letters. The FAC alleges that the BUSD, through its board, adopted a resolution mandating that its employees be vaccinated with respect to COVID-19. (FAC ¶¶23-24.) According to the FAC, this requirement was based on misleading and exaggerated claims, and not based on scientific data. (Id., ¶¶25-33.)  The policy stated that “a limited number of individuals” “may” be exempt if they provide a statement “declining vaccination based on Religious Beliefs ….”  (Id., ¶¶31, 34.)  Additional policies were enacted providing for specific accommodations that were not offered to Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶¶31-37.)Plaintiffs allege that they requested an exception for BUSD’s COVID-19 vaccination policy as a reasonably accommodation to their sincerely held religious beliefs and/or medical conditions. Plaintiffs allege that the work requirement of being vaccinated conflicted with their religious beliefs that “their bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit and that to inject medical products that have any connection whatsoever to aborted fetal cell lines would be defiling the temple of the Holy Spirit.”  (FAC, ¶44.) Plaintiffs allege that they each received a similar denial stating that BUSD was not disputing the sincerity of their religious beliefs at that time, but BUSD was unable to identify a reasonable accommodation that would permit Plaintiffs to work on site and satisfy the health and safety protections of vaccinations, except unpaid leave, that would not pose an undue burden on BUSD.  (FAC, ¶21.)  The letter further stated that if Plaintiffs elected not to get vaccinated, then their only options were to submit a request for unpaid leave of absence or submit their resignation.  (Id.)  Plaintiffs argue that they know for certain that unvaccinated individuals can work safely in school environments with safety protocols in place, and that these protocols were not offered to them.  (Id., ¶33.)  Plaintiffs allege that BUSD failed to provide factual evidence to support its claim of undue burden and failed to follow the law for religious exemption and reasonable accommodation. The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed February 9, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) religious discrimination violation of Government Code, § 12940(a) et seq.; (2) religious discrimination – failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of Government Code, § 12940(1) et seq.: (3) harassment in violation of Government Code, § 12940 et seq.; and (4) retaliation in violation of Government Code, § 12940(h, l) et seq.B.    Motion on CalendarOn February 21, 2024, BUSD filed a motion to compel production of documents that were agreed to be produced in response to Request for Production Nos. 22 and 23 (“RPD”) propounded to each Plaintiff and for the provision of a privilege log. The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. LEGAL STANDARD            CCP § 2031.220 states: “A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.”             CCP § 2031.240(c)(1) states: “If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”             CCP § 2031.320(a) states: “If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling compliance.”DISCUSSION            BUSD moves to compel each of the Plaintiffs’ responses to RPD Nos. 22 and 23, which are identical for each Plaintiff.  BUSD argues that each Plaintiff provided the same objections but also stated that they would produce non-privileged responsive documents.  BUSD argues that no documents were produced (except for limited production by Andrea Graber), and they have not stated when they would produce document or provided any assurances that documents would be produced.             RPD No. 22 seeks all correspondence, including Signal messages, emails, and text messages, between [named plaintiff] and any other plaintiff in the lawsuit.  RPD No. 23 seeks all correspondence, including Signal messages, emails, and text messages, with any other BUSD employee regarding the vaccine mandate and/or a request for an exemption from the vaccine mandate.  Plaintiffs objected to the RPDs on the grounds that they were overbroad, compound, attorney-client privileged, attorney work product doctrine, vague as to “Signal messages” and “vaccine mandate,” assume facts, burdensome and oppressive, the information is already in the possession of or equally available to BUSD, right of privacy, and not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; without waiving objections, Plaintiffs responded that they would produce non-privileged documents in their possession, custody, or control.             Plaintiffs agreed to provide non-privileged, responsive documents to RPD Nos. 22 and 23.  BUSD argues that despite such representations, they are not in receipt of responsive documents to the RPD requests.  Although there are objections raised that the RPDs are overbroad, compound, burdensome, etc., the motion is unopposed and Plaintiffs have not justified their claims of objections.  Further, BUSD provides evidence that Plaintiffs Jane Creager, Vicki Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt, Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, Michael Kimmel, Krista Pansini, and Marlene Wieden knew what the Signal messages were as they were part of a Signal group chat, used Signal to communicate with one another, and some still use Signal to this day.            As such, Plaintiffs are each ordered to produce documents responsive to RPD Nos. 22 and 23.  If there are documents that are privileged based on the attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine, Plaintiffs are ordered to produce a privilege log.             No sanctions were requested.CONCLUSION AND ORDER            Defendant Burbank Unified School District’s motion to compel Plaintiffs’ production of documents responsive to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 22 and 23 is granted.  Plaintiffs are each ordered to produce documents and/or a privilege log within 20 days of notice of this order.  