 Case Number:  23BBCV01530    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  JOSHUA PEVNICK,                         Plaintiff,            v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC,                         Defendant.   Case No.:  23BBCV01530 Hearing Date:  March 29, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsOn July 6, 2023, Plaintiff Joshua Pevnick (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for restitution and damages for violation of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act against Defendant General Motors, LLC (“GM” or “Defendant”).  Plaintiff alleges that on April 18, 2021, he purchased a 2021 Chevrolet Bolt.  GM is alleged to be the manufacturer and to have offered an express warranty to Plaintiff pursuant the Act.  Plaintiff alleges the vehicle suffered from nonconformities to the warranty including, but not limited to “the seat belt pretensioner, fire risk, electrical, battery, and other defects.”  (Compl., ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges that GM was unable or refused to conform the vehicle to the applicable express and implied warranties under the Act.  Plaintiff alleges that GM has an obligation to repurchase the vehicle and make restitution. B.    Motion on CalendarOn February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of GM’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) with production of documents.   The matter initially came for hearing on March 1, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing on the motion to March 29, 2024 as the motion was not timely filed by February 6, 2024, in connection with the March 1, 2024 hearing date.  The Court ordered the opposition brief be filed by March 18, 2024 and the reply brief by March 22, 2024.On March 18, 2024, GM filed an opposition brief.On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.DISCUSSION            Plaintiff moves to compel the deposition of GM’s PMQ(s) with production of documents and requests sanctions in the amount of $2,975. Plaintiff states that he served his notice of deposition for GM’s PMQ on August 15, 2023, and GM served objections on September 7, 2023.  (Kaufman Decl., Exs. 1-2.)  Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with GM’s counsel by calling and leaving a voice message and sending an email to discuss the deposition; Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that if he did not hear back from GM, Plaintiff would have to unilaterally set a deposition date.  (Id., Ex. 3.)  On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff served the First Amended Notice of Deposition and GM objected on September 29, 2023.  (Id., Exs. 4-5.)  Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email on December 7, 2023 to ask about the deposition, but GM did not respond.  (Id., Ex. 6.)  On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel called GM’s counsel to meet and confer, but GM did not return Plaintiff’s phone call.  (The emails sent by Plaintiff’s counsel did not substantively address any of the objections raised by GM regarding the deposition notices.) The deposition notice seeks to depose GM’s PMQ regarding: (1) questions about why GM did not repurchase or replace the vehicle before the action was filed; (2) questions about the service and warranty history; (3) questions about communications between GM and Plaintiff; (4) questions about communications between GM and anyone else regarding the vehicle; (5) questions relating to GM’s investigations into whether or not the vehicle qualified for repurchase before this action was filed; and (6) questions about the warranty nonconformities in the vehicle.  The requests for production of documents sought: (1) documents showing the repairs to the vehicle; (2) documents evidencing correspondence relating to Plaintiff or the vehicle (excluding attorney-client communications); (3) copies of GM’s California lemon law policy and procedure manual used by GM’s dealers and customer service representatives; (4) GM’s customer service file pertaining to Plaintiff or the vehicle; (5) writings provided to GMs’ customer service representatives that reflect or relate to rules, policies, and procedures concerning the issuance of refunds pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act; (6) copies of the technical service bulletins that apply to the vehicle; (7) copies of recall notices that apply to the vehicle; (8) copies of the documents GM reviewed when it decided pre-litigation not to repurchase the vehicle pursuant to the lemon law; (9) GM's lemon law policy and procedure manual; and (10) copies of any photographs or videos GM has of the vehicle.  (See Mot., Ex. 4.) In opposition, GM argues that it offered to produce a PMQ on a mutually agreeable date.  In the separate statement, GM agrees to produce a PMQ for Category Nos. 1-4 and 6, but declines to produce a witness as to Category No. 5.  Differently, in the opposition papers, GM states that it will produce a PMQ witness(es) for Category Nos. 1-6 and produce relevant documents before the deposition.  (Opp. at p.4.) While GM argues in the opposition brief and separate statement that the motion should be denied, GM agrees to produce its PMQ on a mutually agreeable date on the deposition topics and produce relevant documents.  GM also states that it will be filing a motion for protective order to ensure that the documents produced will be appropriately protected as they contain confidential and proprietary information. The Court grants the motion to compel the deposition of GM’s PMQ and to produce documents.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer to ascertain a mutually agreeable date to conduct the PMQ deposition.  Further, the parties should meet and confer about entering into a protective order to maintain the confidentiality of GM’s documents that are subject to trade secret and proprietary concerns. The motion to compel GM’s PMQ is granted.  The request for sanctions is denied.CONCLUSION AND ORDER            Plaintiff Joshua Pevnick’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified is granted.  The parties are ordered meet and confer to ascertain a date to conduct the PMQ deposition within 45 days of this hearing or on a mutually agreeable date. Further, the parties should meet and confer about entering into a protective order to maintain the confidentiality of GM’s documents that are subject to trade secret and proprietary concerns.             No sanctions shall be awarded on this motion.