  Case Number:  20CHCV00303    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/15/24     Case    Name: Martin, Trustee for THE GENSER L MARTIN LIVING TRUST v. Alvarado, et    al.     Case    # 20CHCV00303      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 15,  2024    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE AS  AN INTERESTED PARTY  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 20CHCV00303    Motion  filed: 11/3/23   MOVING PARTY: Walter Martin (“Mr. Martin”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants  Sayra Alvarado, Norma Salcido, and Jonathan Banuelos (collectively,  “Defendants”), and Plaintiff Chevon Martin Robinson, as Successor Trustee of  THE GESNER L. MARTIN LIVING TRUST (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting Mr. Martin’s leave to intervene as an interested party under the  mandatory intervention authority in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure  section 387 subdivision (d) paragraph (1)   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On May 15, 2020, Mr. Martin, allegedly acting as Trustee for  THE GESNER L. MARTIN LIVING TRUST (the “Trust”), initiated this action against  Defendants/Cross-Complainants and Does 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges a breach  of lease contract for the Trust-owned real property located at 11973 Adelphia  Ave. Pacoima, California, 91331 (the “rental property”). Subsequently, on June  24, 2020, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their Answer to the Complaint.   On June 24, 2020, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed a  Cross-Complaint against Mr. Martin and Does 1 – 20, alleging nine causes of  action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied warranty of  habitability/tenantability; (3) breach of implied warranty of quiet enjoyment;  (4) negligence; (5) constructive eviction; (6) nuisance; (7) breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (8) retaliatory acts; and (9)  trespass. Subsequently, Mr. Martin, allegedly acting as Trustee for the Trust,  filed an Answer to the Cross-Complaint on August 7, 2020.   On February 7, 2022, Mr. Martin filed the operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against all Defendants/Cross-Complainants for (1)  breach of contract; and (2) negligence. Following this,  Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their Answer to the FAC on May 16, 2022.    On October 23, 2023, the Court granted  Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings on the  grounds that Mr. Martin lacks standing in prosecuting the present action due to  an order suspending him as trustee of the Trust by the Antelope Valley Court on  March 6, 2019, in the matter of the Conservatorship of Rex Martin, LASC Case  No. 18AVPB0069 (the “Conservatorship matter”). As a result, Mr. Martin was  removed as Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant. (10/23/23 Minute Order, Mot., at 2.)   On November 3, 2023, Mr. Martin filed the instant Motion for  Leave to Intervene as An Interested Party (the “Motion”)   On November 9, 2023, the court in the Conservatorship matter  appointed Chevon Martin Robinson (“Robinson”) as the Successor Trustee of the  Trust. Subsequently, on November 30, 2023, Robinson was substituted in as  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant in the present action on behalf of the Trust, in  place of Mr. Martin. (11/30/23 Notice of Substitution, Ex. “A,” 11/9/23 Minute  Order by Probate Division In re: Martin, Rex – Conservatorship.)     Subsequently, both Defendants/Cross-Complainants and  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed their Oppositions to the Motion on March 4, and  March 6, 2023, respectively.   No Reply has been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   “A nonparty shall petition the court for  leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition  shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in  intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)   “The court shall, upon timely  application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if  either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision of law  confers an unconditional right to intervene. (B) The person seeking  intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is  the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition  of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that  interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or  more of the existing parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d), par. (1).) A.     Mandatory  Intervention Mandatory intervention is governed by  Code of Civil Procedure section 387 subdivision (d) paragraph (1), which  provides “[a] provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. [Or,] [t]he  person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or  transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated  that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability  to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately  represented by one or more of the existing parties.”   In determining whether an unconditional  right to intervene exists under section 387, the threshold question is whether  the person seeking intervention has “an interest relating to the property or  transaction which is the subject of the action.” (Mylan Laboratories, Inc.  v. Soon-Shiong (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 71, 78; California Physicians’  Service v. Superior Court (1980) 102 Cal. App.3d 91, 96.)    In addition to establishing an interest  in the property or transaction that is the subject of the action, a person  seeking intervention must also show that he or she “is so situated that the  disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect  that interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d), par. (1), Hodge v.  Kirkpatrick Development, Inc. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 540, 554 (Hodge).)  Upon this showing, the court must permit the person to intervene unless the  “the person’s interest is adequately represented by existing parties.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d), par. (1), Hodge, at 554-555.)   Here, Mr. Martin contends that he has an  unconditional right to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure 387, subdivision  (d), arguing that he has sufficient interest in the rental property as both  mortgage borrower and personal guarantor. (Mot., at 5.)  Moreover, Mr. Martin asserts that the  disposition of the action “may impair or impede” his personal and financial  interests, particularly if “the putative Plaintiff of this case takes no action  that could irreparably damage his rights.” (Id., at 6.) Furthermore, he  contends that the existing parties cannot adequately represent his interests,  as they cannot “stand in his shoes and protect his interests.” (Ibid.)   Both Defendants/Cross-Complainants and  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant dispute Mr. Martin’s contention that he is entitled  to mandatory intervention, on the similar basis that he lacks any remaining  interest in the Trust, which owns the rental property.   It is important to highlight that the  Court emphasizes the necessity for an individual to have an interest in the  property or transaction that is the subject of the action, to qualify for  mandatory intervention as outlined under Code of Civil Procedure section 387  subdivision (d) paragraph (1).   The Court finds the ruling of Siena  Court Homeowners Assn. v. Green Valley Corp (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1416 (Siena)  instructive on this issue. In that case, a condominium association “Siena  Court” brought construction defect action against the developer “Green Valley.”  Another condominium association, “University Gardens,” sought to intervene on  the grounds that it had an interest in the common facilities involved in the  dispute. (Id., at 1416.) The plaintiff Siena Court argued was  specifically about a construction contract with Green Valley regarding the  latter’s liability for repair of defects in the joint common facilities, highlighting  that University Gardens was not a party to the construction contract. (Id.,  at 1425.)    The Court of Appeal upheld the trial  court’s decision to deny University Garden’s intervention. It reasoned that even  if University Garden had made the requisite showing of its interest in the  property through a joint use and maintenance agreement between it and Siena  Court, the respective interests or obligations are nonetheless independent of  the issue in the construction defect action. (Id., at 1426.)  Furthermore, the Court of Appeal concludes that a judgment in the construction  defect action would not affect University Garden’s ability to protect its  interests, as it may pursue a separate action against Siena Court based their  sperate joint use and maintenance agreement. (Ibid.)       In  the present case, while there are similarities with the Siena case, Mr.  Martin’s argument for intervention is further removed.    Firstly, unlike University Garden in Siena,  which had a joint use and maintenance agreement with the plaintiff Siena Court,  Mr. Martin fails to demonstrate any existing legal relationship with Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant,  the Trust, notwithstanding his previous roles and agreements related to the  rental property when he was a trustee. (Mot. at 3.)  The appointment of Robinson as the Successor  Trustee by the Conservatorship Court further undermines Mr. Martin’s claim to  any current interest in the Trust. (Robinson Opp’n., at 3.)    In his Motion, Mr. Marton challenges the  validity of the order entered on March 6, 2019, suspending him as the trustee.  However, the Court, in its 10/23/23 Minute Order, has stated that it lacks  jurisdiction to consider this challenge, advising that such arguments should be  brought before the Probate Court. (10/23/23 Minute Order, at 3.) Therefore, the  Court does not consider this argument in reviewing the instant Motion.   Consequently, considering the Siena  rationale, the Court faces constraints in recognizing any interest that Mr.  Martin might claim in the Trust’s property, given the absence of a direct legal  relationship or agreement between him and the Trust.      Secondly,  the Court draws a parallel with the finding of the subject of the action in Siena  decision, where the subject of the Siena action was the construction  contract, distinct from a joint use and maintenance agreement. Similarly, in Mr.  Martin’s case, his role as a personal guarantor for the bank mortgage on the  rental property is deemed unrelated to the lease contract dispute currently  before the court. His noninvolvement in the lease contract leads the Court to  conclude that he lacks standing to seek any remedy against  Defendants/Cross-Complainants who are tenants under said lease. (10/23/23  Minute Order.)   Thirdly, mirroring the rationale in Siena,  the Court finds that even assuming that Mr. Martin has an interest in the  rental property, he has not demonstrated that the outcome of the action in his  absence will impair or impede his ability to protect that interest. Given that Mr.  Martin’s interest is assumed based on his agreement with the bank for the mortgage,  he retains the option to pursue his mortgage-related claims in a separate legal  action.    Given the lack of sufficient showing to meet  the requisite threshold outlined under Code of Civil Procedure section 387  subdivision (d) paragraph (1), the Court concludes that Mr. Martin is not  eligible for mandatory intervention.              Accordingly,  the Motion for Leave to Intervene is Denied.   CONCLUSION   Mr. Walter Martin’s Motion  for Leave to Intervene is DENIED.   Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant is ordered to provide notice of  this order.