 Case Number:  23CHCV01640    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/15/24     Case    Name: Herrera v. Vision Media Management & Fulfillment, LLC, et al.     Case    # 23CHCV01640      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 15, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL JOINDER OF INDISPENSABLE  PARTIES  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01640    Motion  filed: 11/21/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Vision Media Management  & Fulfillment, LLC (“Vision Media” or “Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Karen De Herrera (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order compelling Horizon Personnel Services and Employers Outsourcing, LLC to  be joined to this lawsuit as indispensable parties.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging  against Defendant Vision Media and Does 1 through 10, alleging wage and hour  violations under the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 action (“PAGA”), as  codified in California Labor Code sections 2698, et seq. (Compl., at 2.) This  representative action was brought on behalf of both Plaintiff herself and all  current and former employees of Defendant Vision Media employed in California  during the designated PAGA Period (collectively, “Aggrieved Employees”).    On November 21, 2023,  Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel Joinder of Indispensable Parties, specifically  Horizon Personnel Services (“Horizon”) and Employers Outsourcing, LLC  (“Employer Outsourcing”), as co-defendants (the “Motion”).     On March 4, 2024,  Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the Motion. Subsequently, Vision Media filed  its Reply on March 7, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Code of Civil  Procedure section 389 subdivision (a) provides, “A person who is subject to service of process  and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject  matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action if (1) in  his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or  (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so  situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a  practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or  (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial  risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by  reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall  order that he be made a party.   Code of Civil Procedure section  389 subdivision (b) states, “If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2)  of subdivision (a) cannot be made a party, the court shall determine whether in  equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before  it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus  regarded as indispensable. The factors to be considered by the court include:  (1) to what extent a judgment rendered in the person’s absence might be  prejudicial to him or those already parties; (2) the extent to which, by  protective provisions in the judgment, by the shaping of relief, or other  measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided; (3) whether a judgment  rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; (4) whether the  plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate remedy if the action is  dismissed for nonjoinder.” (See City of San Diego v. San Diego City  Employees’ Ret. Sys. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 69, 83 (San Diego City  Employees’ Ret. Sys.).) A.     Vision Media  Fails to Demonstrate that Horizon and Employers Outsourcing Qualify as  Necessary Parties under C.C.P. Section 389(a)   The criteria set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section  389 subdivision (a) (“section 389(a)”) are generally referenced to determine  the presence of “necessary” parties.  If  a party is deemed “necessary” under one of the standards specified in section  389(a), the Court is then required to assess whether the party is also  “indispensable” by evaluating factors listed in Code of Civil Procedure section  389 subdivision (b) (“section 389(b)”). (San Diego City Employees’  Ret. Sys., supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at 83.)   In this  case, Vision Media fails to successfully demonstrate that Horizon and Employers  Outsourcing are necessary parties, in accordance with section 389(a)  subparagraph (1).    Firstly,  Vision Media asserts that Horizon is a necessary and indispensable party,  arguing only Horizon is Plaintiff’s direct employer and is solely responsible  for hiring, paying wages, and issuing wage statements. (Mot. at 6, 7.) Further,  in its Reply, Vision Media advances an additional argument, positing that even  assuming Vision Media and Horizon would be considered as joint employers,  Plaintiff’s claims would fail without demonstrating “willful” conduct on the  part of Vision Media, necessitated by Labor Code to held it liable for wage and  hour violations as a co-employer. (Reply, at 5.) Following this, Vision Media further  contends that complete relief could not be accorded unless Plaintiff can establish  Vision Media’s liability for all claims presented in this litigation. (Ibid.)  However, the Court finds this argument to be without merits on several grounds.     One, as  Plaintiff, in her response, correctly cites Labor Code section 2810.3  subdivision (b), emphasizing that Vision Media retains potential liability for  wage violations even if not a direct employer. This section explicitly states,  “A client employer shall share with a labor contractor all civil legal  responsibility and civil liability for all workers supplied by that labor  contractor for ... (1) the payment of wages.” Here, Vision Media has not  contested that it is not a client employer for the purpose of Labor Code  violation claims. The Labor Code sets forth that “‘Client employer’ means a  business entity, regardless of its form, that obtains or is provided workers to  perform labor within its usual course of business from a labor contractor.”  (Lab. Code, § 2810.3, subd. (a).)    Furthermore,  the indirect method of wage payment through a temporary employment agency,  namely Horizon in this case, does not absolve the direct compensatory nature of  the paycheck. (Bradley v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation  (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1612, fn. 2.) The Complaint alleges that Vision Media  “rounded Plaintiff and/or other Aggrieved Employers’ hours worked, thereby  depriving them of wages for all hours worked at the legally mandated rates.”  (Compl., ¶ 22.) Given that Vision Media’s uncontested involvement in the  approval and payment process of the hours billed by Horizon, it is reasonable  to infer that it was for the number of hours worked by Plaintiff, approved by  Vision Media, billed by Horizon, and paid by Vision Media.    Consequently,  Vision Media’s assertion that Horizon alone is responsible for paying wages is  misplaced. Without being the direct employer, Vision Media could still face  liability for wage violations.    Two, the Labor  and Service Agreement between Horizon and Vision Media explicitly assigns  Vision Media the sole responsibility “for supervision, direction, control and  manor in which work of Employees is performed and the details of such work  while operating at Customer’s workplace or assigned workplace[.]” (Thorup  Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. (A,) at 2.) The Complaint outlines several allegations against  Vision Media, including its failure “to authorize and permit and/or make  available Plaintiff and/or other Aggrieved Employees [compliant] meal periods”  (Compl., ¶ 23), failure to permit compliant rest periods (Compl., ¶ 24), and failure  to “keep accurate records of the hours worked by Plaintiff and/or other  Aggrieved Employees.” (Compl., ¶ 28.) Here, the key is that Vision Media’s  liabilities are predicated on these allegations of labor law hour violations  involving the terms of the Labor and Service Agreement under control of Vision  Media.    Vision  Media has not contested that these liabilities might rest on terms under the  control of Horizon. On the contrary, all the allegations of hour violations pertain  to aspects of employment practices under Vision Media’s control. Therefore,  Horizon cannot be deemed a necessary party as to these claims since complete  relief may be accorded between Plaintiff and Vision Media.   Third, the  Court finds Vision Media’s interpretation of the “complete relief” under  section 389(a) to be misconstrued. The first clause of section 389(a), the  “complete relief” clause, focuses not on whether complete relief can be  afforded all possible parties to the action, but rather on whether complete  relief can be afforded the parties already joined in the action. (Countrywide  Home Loan, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 793-794.)  Here, Vision Media is entitled to present any defenses against the alleged  liabilities, regardless of the joinder of Horizon or Employer Outsourcing. Additionally,  the assessment of a claim’s merit, including its likelihood of success based on  the establishment of elements required by the Labor Code sections, is not  relevant to the determination of a necessary party.    If Vision  Media successfully defends itself, it does not imply that Plaintiff has been  deprived of complete relief. The criteria for “complete relief” is met as long  as the Court’s resolution addresses the disputes between parties already  involved in the action. Therefore, the necessity for joining Horizon or  Employer Outsourcing to achieve complete relief is not supported by the standards  set forth in section 389(a).   Therefore, the  determination of whether Horizon or Employer Outsourcing is necessary party does  not hinge on whether either of them is the direct employer of Plaintiff. As the  Complaint makes specific allegations against Vision Media, coupled with the  uncontested fact that Vision Media exercised control over the employment  practices at issue, the Court concludes that complete relief can be accorded among  the parties already joined in the action.    Secondly, Vision Media’s argument, based on section  389(a)(2), concerning the risk of prejudice from potentially inconsistent or  conflicting judgments – especially regarding its rights to seek indemnification  from Horizon or Employers Outsourcing – is not fully convincing. (Mot., at 8.)  Specifically, Vision Media asserts that it might have to defend against litigation  regarding Horizon’s and/or Employers Outstanding’s practices without having  them included as parties to the litigation. (Ibid.) Moreover, Vision  Media is concerned that seeking indemnification against Horizon or Employer  Outsourcing in future proceedings could result in judgments that are  inconsistent with findings on wage and hour violations in the present case. (Ibid.)  However, these concerns are misplaced.   The Court  clarifies that in the current action, Vision Media is solely defending against  allegations of its own wage and hour violations as a client employer, not the  employment practices of Horizon or Employer Outsourcing. Consequently, the  interests of Horizon or Employer Outsourcing are not directly at stake in this  case.    Moreover,  section 389(a)(2) necessitates that an absent party must “claims an interest  relating to the subject of the action.” It is clear that neither Horizon nor  Employers Outsourcing has claimed an interest in this litigation, as both  parties stipulate that Horizon has been out of business. (Etemadi Decl., ¶ 7.) This  absence of claimed interest by Horizon or Employer Outsourcing undermines  Vision Media’s argument, failing to satisfy the criteria under section  389(a)(2).    Thirdly,  practical considerations do not influence the determination of necessary  parties according to legal criteria in section 389(a). Additionally, addressing  practical issues is distinct from the question of whether indispensable parties  are present. For instance, Vision Media, if aiming to avoid subsequent  litigation for indemnification, has the option to seek permission to file  cross-complaint against Horizon and Employer Outsourcing within the current proceedings.  Similarly, access to specific information like payroll and employee lists, if  held by non-parties, can be facilitated through conventional discovery methods.     Accordingly,  Vision Media does not satisfy the two-prong criteria under Code of Civil  Procedure section 389 subdivision (a) to establish that Horizon and Employer  Outsourcing are necessary parties.     B.      Consideration  of Factors under C.C.P. Section 389(b) is Unnecessary As Vision Media Does Not  Fulfill the Criteria under C.C.P. Section 389(a)   “A determination that the persons are necessary parties in  the predicate for the determination whether they are indispensable parties.” (Deltakeeper  v. Oakdale Irrigation Dist. (2001) 94 Cal. App.4th 1092, 1100 (Deltakeeper).)   “A party is indispensable only in the “conclusory sense  that in [its] absence, the court has decided the action should be dismissed.  Where the decision is to proceed the court has the power to make a legally  binding adjudication between the parties properly before it.” (Deltakeeper,  supra, 94 Cal.App.4th at 1105.)   Given the Court’s conclusion that Vision Media has not sufficiently  demonstrated that Horizon and Employer Outsourcing are necessary parties under  section 389(a), it negates the need to assess their indispensability under  section 389(b).    Consequently, the Court determines that Vision Media, as a client-employer  for the purpose of labor law codes, is responsible for complying with Labor  Code sections §§ 2698 et seq. It is inconsequential that Plaintiff chooses not  to name her direct employer Horizon and its contractor Employers Outsourcing as  defendants. As Vision Media constitutes a propriate defendant without proving  any parties to be indispensable, the argument that the Court should dismiss the  action is unfounded.                           For the reasons stated above, the  Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Joinder of Indispensable Parties.   CONCLUSION   Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Joinder of Indispensable Parties is DENIED   Moving  party to provide notice of this order.  