 Case Number:  23STCV24838    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
8, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Ingrid Rodriguez v. Medix Staffing Solutions, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24838
 





















 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Medix Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Medix Staffing Solutions, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Ingrid
Rodriguez and Defendant PATH
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
This
is a discrimination and wrongful termination action.  On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff, Ingrid
Rodriguez, filed a Complaint against her former
employer, Defendants, Medix Staffing Solutions, Inc., and Medix Staffing
Solutions, LLC, and its client, PATH[1],
alleging claims for: 
 
1.     
Harassment
in Violation of Government Code § 12940(j)
2.     
Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy 
3.     
Discrimination
in Violation of Government Code § 12940(a)
4.     
Retaliation
for Harassment and/or Discrimination Complaints in Violation of Government Code
§ 12940(h)
5.     
Failure
to Prevent in Violation of Government Code § 12940(k)
6.     
Retaliation
in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5
7.     
Failure
to Pay Minimum Wage in Violation of Labor Code §§ 1194, 1194.2, 1197, 1197.1
8.     
Failure
to Pay Overtime in Violation of Labor Code §§ 510, 1194, 1198
9.     
Failure
to Authorize and Permit Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §§ 226.7, 512
10. 
Failure
to Authorize and Permit Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7
11. 
Failure
to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226(a)  
12. 
Failure
to Pay wages Owed Timely in Violation of Labor Code § 203
13. 
Failure
to Reimburse Necessary Expenses in Violation of Labor Code § 2802.
On December 7,
2023, Defendants Medix Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Medix Staffing Solutions,
LLC (collectively, “Medix Defendants”), filed their Answer to the
Complaint.  Medix Defendants pleaded an affirmative
defense based on the existence of an arbitration agreement.
 
On January 12,
2024, Medix Defendants filed this motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to
arbitrate her claims and dismissing, or in the alternative, staying this action
pending arbitration.  
 
On January 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
the same day, Defendant PATH also filed an opposition.
 
On February 1,
2024, Medix Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA),
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
Medix Defendants move to compel arbitration and stay the
proceedings in this matter. Plaintiff argues there is no enforceable
arbitration agreement because she never agreed to arbitrate her claims against
PATH.  PATH resists arbitration on
similar grounds, arguing it is neither a signatory nor a third party
beneficiary of the agreement. The court begins with the underlying fundamentals
and moves on to address the parties’ arguments.   
1. Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
Plaintiff was employed by Medix Staffing Solutions as a
Case Manager to work on assignment at Defendant PATH on or about March 27, 2023. 
(Complaint, ¶ 19.)  As part of Plaintiff’s employment application,
Plaintiff signed an Arbitration Agreement wherein she agreed to arbitrate any
claims that arose out of her employment with Defendant.  (Mrumlinksi
Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. 1.)  The Agreement is between Plaintiff and Medix
Staffing Solutions, LLC.  (Id.)  Pursuant to the Arbitration
Agreement, Plaintiff and Medix Staffing Solutions, LLC agreed to mutual binding
arbitration.  (Id.)  Specifically,
Plaintiff and Defendant voluntarily agreed that:  
This Agreement is intended to be as broad as legally permissible, and,
except as it otherwise provides, this Agreement applies to any and all disputes
that may arise between Employee (sometimes “you” or “your”) and COMPANY,
including without limitation any dispute arising out of or related to
Employee’s application, employment and/or separation of employment with COMPANY,
and survives after the employment relationship ends. This Agreement applies to
a covered dispute, past, present, or future, that COMPANY may have against
Employee or that Employee may have against: (1) COMPANY; (2) COMPANY’s parent
companies, subsidiaries, related companies and affiliates and d/b/as; (3) its
and their officers, directors, shareholders, owners, members, employees, managers
or agents (in their capacity as such or otherwise); (4) COMPANY’s benefit plans
or the plans’ sponsors, fiduciaries, administrators, affiliates or agents; and
(5) clients or customers for whose benefits Employee performs services. It is
understood and agreed by the COMPANY and the Employee that clients and
customers of the COMPANY, including without limitation their officers, agents,
employees, successors, assigns and affiliates, are intended to be third party
beneficiaries to this Agreement and are entitled to enforce this Agreement
accordingly. Each and all of the entities or individuals listed in (1) through
(5) of the preceding clause can enforce this Agreement. 
(Mrumlinksi Decl.,
Exh. 1.)  
As such, Medix Defendants have shown that a valid
agreement to arbitrate exists.  Neither Plaintiff
nor PATH present any arguments to the contrary. 
 
2. Federal Arbitration Act 
 
The¿FAA¿applies to contracts that involve interstate
commerce.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 1,¿2.) Because arbitration is a matter of
contract, the¿FAA¿also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.¿ (See¿Victrola
89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC¿(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355 (“[T]he
presence of interstate commerce is not the only manner under which the¿FAA¿may
apply. … [T]he parties may also voluntarily elect to have the¿FAA¿govern
enforcement of the Agreement”].)  
 
The FAA governs written arbitration agreements in the
employment context.¿ (Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S.
105, 109, 113.)¿ The FAA provides, “A written provision in any . . . contract
evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the
refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.”¿ (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement states, “The parties
agree that this Agreement is enforceable under and subject to the Federal
Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.) (“FAA”). The parties agree that this
Agreement shall be construed, interpreted, and its validity and enforceability
determined in accordance with the FAA. If a court determines the FAA does not
apply to a particular dispute or to one or both parties, the parties stipulate
and agree that the arbitration law of the state where the arbitration is to be
convened will apply.”  (Mrumlinksi Decl.,
Exh. 1.)  
 
As such, the FAA applies to this matter.¿ 
 
3.  Plaintiff’s Arguments
 
Plaintiff raises the contractual defense of lack of
assent.  Her argument is two-fold: (1) there is no agreement to arbitrate
because Plaintiff did not specifically acknowledge or agree to arbitrate her
claims, and (2) she did not agree to arbitrate her claims as to PATH, which is
not a party to the agreement.   
 
“In California, general principles of contract law
determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate.  An essential element of any contract is the
consent of the parties, or mutual assent.  Further, the consent of the parties to a
contract must be communicated by each party to the other. (Civ.Code, § 1565,
subd. 3.) Mutual assent is determined under an objective standard applied to
the outward manifestations or expressions of the parties, i.e., the reasonable
meaning of their words and acts, and not their unexpressed intentions or
understandings.” (Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
373, 381, quoting Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 165, 173 [cleaned up].)


Against this background, Plaintiff’s arguments fail.  Plaintiff does not dispute having signed the
arbitration agreement on March 1, 2023. 
(See Mrumlinksi Decl., Exh. 1.)  The
agreement itself is entitled, “Mutual Arbitration Agreement”.  (Id.)  As stated above, the arbitration agreement
provides,  
 
This Agreement applies to a covered dispute, past, present, or future,
that COMPANY may have against Employee or that Employee may have against: (1)
COMPANY; (2) COMPANY’s parent companies, subsidiaries, related companies and
affiliates and d/b/as; (3) its and their officers, directors, shareholders,
owners, members, employees, managers or agents (in their capacity as such or
otherwise); (4) COMPANY’s benefit plans or the plans’ sponsors, fiduciaries,
administrators, affiliates or agents; and (5) clients or customers for whose
benefits Employee performs services.  It
is understood and agreed by the COMPANY and the Employee that clients and
customers of the COMPANY, including without limitation their officers, agents,
employees, successors, assigns and affiliates, are intended to be third party
beneficiaries to this Agreement and are entitled to enforce this Agreement
accordingly. Each and all of the entities or individuals listed in (1)
through (5) of the preceding clause can enforce this Agreement.
(Mrumlinksi
Decl., Exh. 1, emphasis added.)   By
its very terms, Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate her claims against clients of the
Medix Defendants.  It is further
undisputed that PATH is a client of the Medix Defendants.  The arbitration agreement is valid and
encompasses Plaintiff’s claims against Medix Defendants and PATH.
            4.  Defendant PATH’s Argument
            PATH argues in conclusory fashion
that the motion should be denied because it is a non-signatory to the
agreement, has not sought to compel arbitration, and is neither an agent of the
Medix Defendants nor a third-party beneficiary of the agreement.  These arguments run contrary to the law and
to the plain language of the arbitration agreement.  
“[T]here are six theories by which a nonsignatory may be
bound to arbitrate: ‘(a) incorporation by reference; (b) assumption; (c)
agency; (d) veil-piercing or alter ego; (e) estoppel; and (f) third-party
beneficiary. [Citation.]  Under the third
party beneficiary theory, a nonsignatory may be compelled to arbitrate where
the nonsignatory is a third party beneficiary of the contract. [Citation.] Whether
a nonsignatory is an intended third party beneficiary to the contract is
determined from the parties’ intent, as gleaned from the contract as a whole
and the circumstances under which it arose. [Citation.]”  (Philadelphia Indem. Ins. Co. v. SMG
Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 841.)  “A nonsignatory plaintiff can be compelled to
arbitrate a claim even against a nonsignatory defendant, when the claim is
itself based on, or inextricably intertwined with, the contract containing the
arbitration clause.”  (JSM Tuscany,
LLC v. Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1241.)
Here, the arbitration agreement expressly provides that clients
and customers of the Medix Defendants are third party beneficiaries of the
contract.  Further, Plaintiff agrees to
arbitrate her claims against Medix Defendants’ clients and customers.  It is uncontested that PATH is a client or
customer of the Medix Defendants and that Plaintiff’s claims against PATH are
inextricably intertwined with the arbitration agreement.  Indeed, the allegations in the Complaint arise
out of Plaintiff’s work placement with PATH. 
(See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 19-34.) PATH is a third party beneficiary of
the contract.  They cannot avoid
arbitration simply because they did not seek to compel arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims. 
5.  Stay of
Proceedings
¿           Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4 provides:  
 If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or
not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an
action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which
such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such
action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had
in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the
court specifies.¿ 
¿           Here, the court will order this action
to arbitration.  Thus, Medix Defendants’ motion to stay the action pending
arbitration is granted.¿¿ 
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The action is stayed as to
all parties pending the conclusion of the arbitration.  The court sets a post-arbitration
status conference for November 8, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
Dated:   February 8,
2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


