 Case Number:  23STCV17011    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
8, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Elizabeth Martinez v. MorBro Logistics
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV17011 
 





















 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
MorBro Logistics 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
Elizabeth Martinez
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
This
is a discrimination and wrongful termination action.  On July 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Elizabeth
Martinez, filed a Complaint against her former
employer, Defendant, MorBro Logistics, for: (1) Disability Discrimination in Violation
of Cal. Gov. Code § 12940 (a); (2) Disability Discrimination in Violation of
Cal. Gov. Code § 12940 (m) – Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation; (3) Disability
Discrimination in Violation of Cal. Gov. Code § 12940 (n) – Failure to Engage
in the Interactive Process; (4) Retaliation in Violation of Cal. Gov. Code §
12940 (h); (5) Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation in
Violation of Cal. Gov. Code § 12940 (k); and (6) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy.  
 
On October 4,
2023, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint.  Defendant pleaded an affirmative defense based
on the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.
 
On January 4,
2024, Defendant filed this motion for an order compelling arbitration and to
dismiss or stay proceedings.  
 
Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  Defendant replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA),
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
Defendant moves to compel arbitration and stay the
proceedings in this matter.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable and therefore, unenforceable.  Defendant responds that the agreement is not unconscionable,
and even if the court were to find some of the terms to be unconscionable,
those terms must be severed from the agreement. 
   
A.  The Arbitration Agreement 
Plaintiff was employed by Defendant as a Delivery Driver
and then as a Dispatcher from  on or
about July 13, 2021 until February 9, 2023.  (Morgan Decl., ¶ 3.)  On
July 19, 2021, Plaintiff signed an Arbitration Agreement wherein she agreed to
arbitrate any claims that arose out of her employment with Defendant.  (Morgan
Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. 1.)  The Agreement is between Plaintiff and MorBro
Logistics. (Id.)  Pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement,
Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to binding individual arbitration.  (Id.)
 Specifically, Plaintiff and
Defendant  agreed that:  
Except as explained in the section "Claims Not Covered" below,
this Mutual Agreement to Individually Arbitrate Disputes (this
"Agreement") covers all past, current, and future grievances,
disputes, claims, issues, or causes of action (collectively,
"claims") under applicable federal, state or local laws, arising out
of or relating to (a) Employee's application, hiring, hours worked, services
provided, and/or employment with the Company or the termination thereof, and/or
(b) a Company policy or practice, or the Company's relationship with or to a
customer, vendor, or third party, including without limitation claims Employee
may have against the Company and/or any Covered Parties (defined below), or
that the Company may have against Employee. 
The claims covered by this Agreement include, but are not limited to
claims asserted under or relating to: (i) Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and similar state statutes; (ii) Age Discrimination in Employment Act and
similar state statutes; (iii) Fair Labor Standards Act or similar state
statutes; (iv) Family and Medical Leave Act or similar state statutes; (v)
Americans with Disabilities Act or similar state statutes; (vi) injuries you
believe are attributable to the Company under theories of product liability,
strict liability, intentional wrongdoing, gross negligence, negligence, or
respondent superior, (vii) actions or omissions of third parties you attribute
to the Company; (viii) claims brought pursuant to actual or alleged exceptions
to the exclusive remedy provisions of state workers compensation laws; (ix)
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985; (v) federal and state
antitrust law; (xi) issues regarding benefits, bonuses, wages, co-employment,
or joint employment; (xii) contracts between you and the Company; (xiii)
personal or emotional injury to you or your family; (xiv) federal, state,
local, or municipal regulations, ordinances, or orders; (xv) any common law, or
statutory law issues relating to discrimination by sex, race, age, national
origin, sexual orientation, family or marital status, disability, medical
condition, weight, dress, or religion or other characteristic protected by
applicable law; (xvi) wrongful retaliation of any type, including retaliation
related to workers' compensation laws or employee injury benefit plan
actionable at law or equity; and (xvii) misappropriation of confidential
information or other acts or omissions by you.
[¶]
Waiver of Trial by Jury. Each of the Employee and the Company understands and fully agrees that
by entering into this Agreement to arbitrate, each agrees to resolve all claims
through arbitration and is giving up the right to have a trial by jury and the
right of appeal following the rendering of a decision except on the grounds for
reviewing an arbitration award under the Federal Arbitration Act
("FAA") or applicable state law.
 
(Morgan Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. 1.)  
 
As such, Defendant has shown that an arbitration
agreement exists. Plaintiff does not present any arguments to the
contrary. 
 
B.  Federal Arbitration Act 
 
The¿FAA¿applies to contracts that involve interstate
commerce.  (9 U.S.C. §§ 1,¿2.) Because arbitration is a matter of
contract, the¿FAA¿also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.¿ (See¿Victrola
89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC¿(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355 (“[T]he
presence of interstate commerce is not the only manner under which the¿FAA¿may
apply. … [T]he parties may also voluntarily elect to have the¿FAA¿govern
enforcement of the Agreement”].)  
 
The FAA governs written arbitration agreements in the
employment context.¿ (Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S.
105, 109, 113.)¿ The FAA provides, “A written provision in any . . . contract
evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the
refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.”¿ (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement states that “The Federal
Arbitration Act ("FAA") and federal common law applicable to
arbitration shall govern the interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement.
If, for any reason, the FAA or federal common law is found not to apply to this
Agreement (or its agreement to arbitrate), then applicable state law shall
govern.”  (Morgan Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. 1.)  
 
As such, the FAA applies to this matter.¿ 
 
C.  Unconscionability¿¿¿ 
 
As the High Court noted
in AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339 (Concepcion),
“the final phrase of § 2 [of the FAA], however, permits arbitration agreements
to be declared unenforceable ‘upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity
for the revocation of any contract.’  This
saving clause permits agreements to arbitrate to be invalidated by ‘generally
applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability,’ but
not by defenses that apply only to arbitration or that derive their meaning
from the fact that an agreement to arbitrate is at issue.”  Thus, under the FAA,
state courts may “decline to enforce arbitration clauses on the basis of
generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress or
unconscionability.”  (Erickson v.
Aetna Health Plans of California, Inc. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 646, 650-651
[cleaned up].)  
 
Plaintiff raises the contractual defense of
unconscionability.  “The party resisting arbitration bears the
burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247 (Pinnacle
Museum).)  In general, the doctrine of unconscionability refers to
“an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” 
(Sonic, supra, 57 Cal.4th at p. 1133 [cleaned up].) 
In other words, the doctrine consists of procedural and substantive components,
“the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power,
the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.)¿ 
If unconscionable, the arbitration agreement is not a
valid contract and therefore is unenforceable.¿ (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 114.)¿ Although both components of unconscionability must be
present to invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the
same degree.¿ (Id.)  “ ‘Essentially a sliding scale is invoked
which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract
formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ ”  (Ibid.)¿ 
1. Procedural Unconscionability¿ 
Procedural unconscionability focuses on the elements of
oppression and surprise.  (Pinnacle
Museum, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 247.)  “Oppression arises from
an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an
absence of meaningful choice….  Surprise involves the extent to which the
terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party
in a superior bargaining position.”  (Davis
v. TWC Dealer Group, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 662, 671.)
A “contract of adhesion” creates some amount of
procedural unconscionability – the term signifies a standardized contract,
which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength,
relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the
contract or reject it.  (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Cos. (1961) 188
Cal.App.2d 690, 694.)  In addition, a lack of effort to highlight the
presence of an arbitration provision, such as through bold lettering, larger
font, or capitalization, has been found to indicate procedural
unconscionability.  (See Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238.)¿¿However, when there is no other indication of oppression
other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of procedural
unconscionability is low.  (Serpa v. California
Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)¿¿¿ 
“[T]he fact that the arbitration agreement is an adhesion
contract does not render it automatically unenforceable as
unconscionable.  Courts have consistently held that the requirement to
enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to its enforcement.”  (Serafin
v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 179.)
      a. Adhesion
Contract  
Here, Plaintiff argues that the agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because Plaintiff did not have an opportunity to negotiate the
agreement, was presented the agreement under pressure (take it or leave it), and
did not have an attorney to review the contract prior to signing.  Plaintiff further represents that her first
language is Spanish, her highest level of education is high school, and the
agreement was difficult to read because it “had a lot of fine print,” suggesting
obliquely that she may not have understood the agreement.  
Plaintiff presents evidence of an adhesion contract.  However, as explained above, an adhesion
contract does not render an agreement automatically unconscionable.  Moreover,
the requirement to enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to the
agreement’s enforcement.¿ (Serafin, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p.
179.) 
b.  Location of Arbitration Proceedings 
Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it does not include the location of the
arbitration proceedings.  Failing to include the location of the
arbitration proceeding, according to Plaintiff, made “the agreement more
confusing.”  (Opp., p. 4.)  Plaintiff does not explain how the lack of
location of the arbitration proceedings made the agreement more confusing.  Nonetheless, Plaintiff cites Murrey v.
Superior Court (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223.  In Murrey, the Court of Appeal found a
high degree of procedural unconscionability as well as substantively
unconscionable provisions.  One of the procedurally
unconscionable provisions involved the failure of the arbitration agreement to
identify the dispute resolution organization (“DRO”), other than a nationally
recognized DRO, or where the place of the arbitration might be held.  The Murrey court found the provision
in the agreement discussing the location of the arbitration agreement to be “a
complicated way of saying the location of your arbitration will be a surprise.”
 (Id. at p. 1248.)  
Here, the arbitration agreement in this matter clearly
states, “The arbitration will be administered by an independent and neutral
arbitrator from the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") in
accordance with the AAA Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation procedures
("AAA Rules") available online at www.adr.org/employment (or to be
provided upon request).”  (Morgan Decl.,
Exh. 1.)  The arbitration agreement
further states, “If for any reason the AAA will not administer the arbitration,
the party seeking arbitration may initiate the arbitration with JAMS
(www.jams.adr) or other recognized arbitration services provider.”  (Id.) 
Plaintiff does not explain how this provision makes the agreement “more
confusing.”  And while the agreement does
not specifically identify the location where the arbitration will be held and
therefore may raise a somewhat similar concern to that raised by the court in Murrey,
the agreement here specifically identifies the “DRO” and how to locate the
arbitration associations rules.  Moreover,
the provisions herein do not raise the multiple concerns over procedural unconscionability
identified in Murrey.[1]   
With respect to the two components that comprise procedural
unconscionability – oppression and surprise – the court finds in Plaintiff’s favor
on the existence of an adhesion contract, but against Plaintiff on the issue of
surprise.  The court finds the degree of
procedural unconscionability to be low.  (Serpa,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at p. 704 [“When there is no other indication of
oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of
procedural unconscionability is low.”].)   ¿¿¿ 
¿           2.  Substantive Unconscionability                 ¿ 
Assessing substantive unconscionability, courts generally
focus on the terms of the agreement and look for terms that are overly harsh or
one-sided such that they shock the conscience. (Nyulassy v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281; see also Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911 (clarifying
various definitions—e.g., “shocks the conscience,” “unduly oppressive,”
“unreasonable favorable” mean same thing).)  The “paramount consideration”
is mutuality of the obligation to arbitrate.  (Nyulassy, 120
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1281, 1287.)   
“Substantively unconscionable terms may take various
forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided. One such form, as
in Armendariz, is the arbitration agreement’s lack of a modicum of
bilaterality, wherein the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration. [Citation.]
Another kind of substantively unconscionable provision occurs when the party
imposing arbitration mandates a post-arbitration proceeding, either judicial or
arbitral, wholly or largely to its benefit at the expense of the party on which
the arbitration is imposed. [Citation.] In determining unconscionability, our
inquiry is into whether a contract provision was unconscionable at the time it
was made. [Citation.]”  (Sonic, supra, 57 Cal.4th at
pp. 1133-34 [cleaned up].)  “To state it simply: it is substantively
unconscionable to require a consumer to give up the right to utilize the
judicial system, while imposing arbitral forum fees that are prohibitively high.” 
(Id. at pp. 1144-45.) 
Here, Plaintiff points to three terms in the agreement
which Plaintiff argues renders the agreement substantively unconscionable.  First, the arbitration agreement requires the
employee to follow a certain procedure to demand arbitration yet does not
provide the name or address of the person to whom the claim should be
sent.  The agreement states, ““A demand
for arbitration must be in writing and delivered by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested, to the Company's [NAME OF PERSON OR POSITION]
at [ADDRESS] ("Notice Address").” 
(Morgan Decl., Ex. 1.)  
Second, the arbitration agreement requires that written
notice of a claim “shall identify and describe the nature of all claims
asserted and the facts upon which such claims are based.”  Plaintiff argues this is “a further
limitation of Plaintiff’s rights to immediately bring this matter to court and
provides no basis for whom decides what is sufficient factual or legal showing,
or who is to decide the sufficiency.” (Opp. at p. 4.) 
Third, the agreement grants the employer alone the right
to seek equitable relief based on misappropriation of confidential information.   
            The court is not persuaded.  First, the omission of the name and address
of the person to whom an arbitration claim should be directed ignores that the
agreement was countersigned by MorBro’s CEO and Human Resources Manager,
Jennifer Morgan.  
Second, Plaintiff’s argument is undeveloped.  Plaintiff fails to explain how requiring
Plaintiff to describe the nature of all claims asserted and the facts thereon
renders the agreement unconscionable.   
Last, the arbitration agreement does not limit equitable
relief to Defendant for claims involving misappropriation of confidential information.  Rather, the agreement states: 
MANDATORY ARBBITRATION. THE EMPLOYEE
AND THE COMPANY AGREE THAT ANY COVERED CLAIM (DEFINED BELOW), WHETHER BASED IN
CONTRACT, TORT, STATUTE, FRAUD, MISREPRESENTATION OR ANY OTHER LEGAL OR
EQUITABLE THEORY, SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO BINDING ARBITRATION.
(Morgan Decl.,
Ex. 1.)
  In sum, Plaintiff does not point to any terms
of the agreement that are “overly harsh”, “one-sided”, or that “shocks the
conscience.”  Plaintiff does not demonstrate a lack of mutuality as in Armendariz
“wherein the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the employer’s
claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.”  (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 119.)  Nor is this a case where Defendant,
as the party imposing arbitration, is requiring a post-arbitration proceeding,
wholly or largely to Defendant’s benefit at Plaintiff’s expense.  (Little
v. Auto Steigler, Inc. 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071-72 (Little).) 

3.  Conclusion
Because both substantive and procedural components must
be present, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the agreement is unconscionable.[2]  
C.  Stay of
Proceedings
¿           Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4 provides:  
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.¿ 
¿           Here, the court will order this action
to arbitration.  Thus, Defendant’s motion to stay the action pending
arbitration is granted.¿¿ 
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The action is stayed as to
all parties pending the conclusion of the arbitration.  The court sets a
post-arbitration status conference for November 8, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
Dated:   February 8,
2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


