 Case Number:  24VECV00204    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  T ZHARINOV V STARBUCKS 24VECV00204
 
Tentative ruling: Demurrer to FAC.  Defendant acknowledges that “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” Cal. Civ. Code § 1714(a). [T]he existence of a duty is a question of
law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14
Cal.4th 814, 819.) Generally, “each person has a duty to use ordinary care and
‘is liable for injuries caused by his failure to exercise reasonable care in
the circumstances....’” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456,
472.) The “owner of [a] premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in
the management of such premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an
unreasonable risk of harm. A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.”
(Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal. App.3d 1611, 1619.)
 
Defendant had a duty to not issue a restriction notice on
plaintiff without due diligence or care, and without stating the true
facts.  
 
The court is required to assume that the facts stated in the
First Amended Complaint are true for the purpose of the demurrer.  Therefore, plaintiff has alleged that defendant
violated that duty when it untruthfully issued a customer restriction notice on
plaintiff while knowing that the statements were false, and the facts were
untrue.  Plaintiff also alleges that the
restriction notice was issued against plaintiff without the “slightest diligence
or care” and that defendant grossly misrepresented the truth and caused
plaintiff injury in the form of shame, humiliation, disgrace... and the like.”  These facts are sufficient to state a cause
of action.
 
Finally, the defendant’s demurrer contains extrinsic facts
which are not allowed, and the court is entertaining whether to assess monetary
sanctions for violation of this simple and fundamental rule, e.g., “Plaintiff
had been making suggestive comments to various partners and customers at the
store...”  which is outside the
allegations of the FAC.  Perhaps Mr.
Songer was unaware of this rule.
 
Finally, the following statement from the demurrer makes no
legal sense: “However, those “damages” are entirely subjective and could not
have been to known to anyone but the Plaintiff. It stands to reason that
Plaintiff could not have been shamed, humiliated or disgraced, if no person
other than Plaintiff and agents of Starbucks were aware of his restriction.”
 
The demurrer is overruled. 
Defendant to answer within 20 days.
 