  Case Number:  20STCV35738    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  T 20STCV35738 SIMONS V
PACHECO
TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff
Dominick Simons’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Dominick Simons’ Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One is
GRANTED.
Defendant Canales Transportation,
LLC is ORDERED to serve verified Code Compliant responses (and production of
documents) within 20 days.
Introduction
Plaintiff Dominick Simons
(Plaintiff) separately moved to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One (FI) and Request for Production of Documents, Set One
(RPD) against Defendant Canales Transportation, LLC (Defendant). 
Plaintiff’s motions placed into issue responses regarding insurance coverage
(FI 4.1 and RPD 5).  Plaintiff is forgoing monetary sanctions at this
time.           
Discussion
The propounding party may bring
motions to compel further responses to interrogatories and requests for
production if it believes the responses received are evasive or incomplete or
if the objections raised are meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., secs.
2030.300(a) and 2031.310(a).)  As to the RPD motion, the motion must set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought. (Code
Civ. Proc., sec. 2031.310(b)(1).)  The motions must be accompanied by good
faith meet and confer declarations and separate statements and must be brought
within 45 days of service of the responses, unless stipulated in writing
otherwise.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 2030.300(c) and 2031.310(c).) 
Both motions provided facts showing good faith meet and confer efforts. 
Both motions are timely filed per the agreement between the parties.  The
RPD motion provided good cause for the demands regarding Defendant’s insurance.
Both FI 4.1 and RPD 5 requested
information as to Defendant’s insurance coverage at the time of the
incident.  Plaintiff submitted that information as to Defendant’s current
policy was provided but Defendant did not provide information as to the coverage
that existed at the time of the incident.  To support Defendant’s
contention that a further response is not required, Defendant presented facts
to support it’s defense (i.e., cannot recall; not at accident scene; not liable
for accident because Co-Defendant Manuel Pacheco not agent or employee of
Defendant; Defendant not in existence at the time.)  Potential defenses or
facts to support Defendant’s defenses are not  proper grounds to deny a
Code-compliant response.  Defendant’s arguments are insufficient to deny
the motion. 
Defendant further provided that a
Co-Defendant Mario Canales conducted a search which resulted in no additional
information.  Mr. Canales further contends that Defendant did not have
insurance that would apply to the incident.  However, whether the
insurance coverage applies or not is not the determining factor to provide a
response.  FI 4.1 requested any policy through which Defendant “were or
might be insured in any manner … for the damages”.  RPD 5 requested all
policies through which Defendant “were or are possibly insured in any
manner”.  The two discovery demands are broad in scope.  At the
discovery stage, Defendant is not the arbiter of whether a policy is
applicable/relevant or not.  Discovery is not based upon relevance but
whether the discovery “is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence.”  Plaintiff’s contention that disclosure of any policy in
existence at the time could potentially lead to the discovery of other
coverages is persuasive. 
The motion to compel further
responses to FI and RPD is GRANTED.  

THE COURT NOTES: Defendant
seems to assert that it had no insurance coverage, at all.  If this is
Defendant’s contention, then Defendant should respond “No” to the FI and
Defendant cannot produce documents because none exist as to the RPD.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.