  Case Number:  21STCV05696    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Tivas v. Garcia
21STCV05696
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Davis Tivas
to Comply With Demand for Physical Examination
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Santos Tivas to Comply With
Demand for Physical Examination
Tentative
The motions to compel are granted.
The requests for sanctions are denied.
Background
On February 16, 2021, Davis Tivas and Santos Tivas (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Frank Rodriguez Garcia (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 through 50 for negligence arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on February 15, 2019.
On March 29, 2023, Defendant filed his answer.
On August 9, Defendant filed four discovery
motions.  Two were set for hearing on September 11 and are the
subject of a minute order of that date. 
The other two are set for hearing on September 13: a motion to compel
Plaintiff Davis Tivas to comply with a demand for a physical examination, and a
motion to compel Plaintiff Santos Tivas to comply with a demand for a physical
examination.  In each motion, Defendant
seeks sanctions. 
As to the motions set for hearing on September 13, no opposition
has been filed.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.220 provides 
that in a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court:
“(a) In any case
in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant
may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(1)  The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive.
(2)  The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.
(b)  A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court ….
(c)  
A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination.
(d)  A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand ….”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
Within 20 days of service of a demand for a physical
examination, the plaintiff to whom the demand is directed must respond in
writing and state that the plaintiff “will comply with the demand as stated,
will comply with the demand as specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will
refuse, for reasons specified in the response, to submit to the demanded
physical examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.230, subd. (a).)  Failure to serve
a timely response waives any objection to the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (a).)
If a plaintiff fails to respond to the demand for a
physical examination, Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240 provides that the
defendant “may move for an order compelling response and compliance with [the]
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.420,
subd. (b).)  No meet and confer is
required.
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240,
subd. (c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act,
section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process”
to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
On June
5, 2024, Defendant served each Plaintiff with a demand for a physical examination
by neurosurgeon Paul E. Kaloostian, M.D., on July 23, 2024. (Holly Decls., ¶¶ 4-5
& Exhs. A.)  Plaintiffs did not respond
and did not appear.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-6.)  Defense counsel made multiple attempts to
communicate with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the missed examinations and a
new date for the examinations, but Plaintiffs did not respond.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-9.) 
Defendant
has shown that he properly noticed the physical examination as of right under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.220, that no response was received, and that
Plaintiffs did not appear.  Defendant
need not show anything more.  The motions
to compel compliance with the demands for a first physical examination of each Plaintiff
are granted.
The
requests for sanctions are denied.  The
applicable provision of the Civil Discovery Act authorizes the Court to impose
sanctions against “any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with
a demand for a physical examination.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (c).) 
Here, Plaintiffs did not oppose the motion.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiffs to comply with the demand for a physical
examination.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
Davis
Tivas to
appear and to be examined by Paul E Kaloostian, M.D. at 960 E. Green Street,
Suite 320, Pasadena, California 91106, within 60 days of notice. 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
Santos Tivas to appear and to be examined by Paul E Kaloostian, M.D. at 960
E. Green Street, Suite 320, Pasadena, California 91106, within 60 days of
notice.
The Court DENIES Defendant’s
requests for sanctions.
Moving party is ORDERED to
give notice.