 Case Number:  21STCV29645    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



MARK WILLIAMS,
                        Plaintiff,
  
            vs.
 
 
DOES 1-50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 21STCV29645
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO ISSUE/SEAL
   SUBPOENAS
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  NOVEMBER 1, 2024
TIME:  8:30 A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: AUGUST 11, 2021
TRIAL
  DATE: NONE



 
I.      
BACKGROUND  
This case is a personal injury action. Plaintiff Mark
Williams (“Plaintiff”) alleges that, on or about March 17, 2021, Defendants Maria
Ewest (“Maria”) and Christopher Kevin Ewest (“Christopher”), in a road rage
incident, called Plaintiff a racial slur, threatened bodily harm against
Plaintiff and his family, and intentionally side-swiped Plaintiff’s vehicle.
(First Amended Complaint “FAC” ¶¶ 9-14.) Plaintiff alleges physical and
property damages as a result.
On January 31, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Maria, Christopher, and Does 3
to 50, alleging five causes of action: (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) negligence;
(4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (5) negligent infliciton
of emotional distress.
On June 5, 2024, the case
was reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024. 
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant notice of motion and motion for court issuance/seal of
subpoenas.
On October 16, 2024, Defendants filed their opposition.
Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARDS

       Except as
provided in Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.280(a), the process by which a
nonparty is required to provide discovery is through a deposition subpoena. (CCP
§ 2020.010 et seq.) Thus, to require the attendance and testimony of a nonparty
deponent, as well as his or her production of any document or tangible thing
for inspection and copying, the party seeking discovery must serve on that
deponent a deposition subpoena under CCP § 2020.010 et seq. (CCP § 2025.280(b).)
       Service of
the deposition notice under CCP § 2025.220 is effective to require any deponent
who is a party to the action or who is an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party to attend and testify at the deposition, as well as to
produce any document or tangible thing for inspection and copying. (CCP §
2025.280(a); see also Waters v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 885,
895-896.)
         The
attorney of record in an action or proceeding may sign and issue a subpoena to
require attendance before the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending, or at the trial of an issue therein, or on the taking of a deposition
in an action or proceeding pending therein. The subpoena in such a case need
not be sealed. (CCP § 1985(c).) The attorney of record may also sign and issue
a subpoena duces tecum to require production of the matters or things described
in the subpoena. (CCP § 1985(c).)
          The
service of a subpoena generally is made (except on peace officers,
firefighters, and specified technical analysts, discussed in CCP § 535.17(5))
by delivering a copy or ticket containing its substance to the witness
personally. (CCP § 1987(a).)
           Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require of any deponent who
is a resident of California at the time of service: (1) personal appearance and
testimony, if the subpoena so specifies; (2) any specified production,
inspection, testing, and sampling; and (3) the deponent's attendance at a court
session to consider any issue arising out of the deponent's refusal to be sworn,
to answer any question, to produce specified items, or to permit inspection or
photocopying, if the subpoena so specifies, or specified testing and sampling
of the items produced. (CCP § 2020.220(c).)
           Service
of the deposition subpoena is invalidated by a defect or failure to comply with
any of these requirements, so that the custodian is not obliged to produce
records. (CCP § 1985.3(k).) However, minor defects in the deposition subpoena
are curable for “good cause,” as long as the rights of the consumer and
custodian are preserved. (CCP § 1985.3(h).)
 
III.      
DISCUSSION

Plaintiff
moves to have subpoenas issued to the following persons or entities: (1) Los
Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”); (2) Target Corp.; (3) JC Produce, Inc.; (4)
Altagracia Sanguino; (5) Ruben Sanguino; and (6) the Sanguino Living Trust.
(Notice of Motion, p. 3:3-5.) The Court addresses each request in subsequence.
 
Los Angeles Police
Department
Plaintiff
seeks to obtain the 911 telephone call recordings made to LAPD at the time of
the underlying incident, as well as LAPD’s dashcam footage and a recorded
interview with Plaintiff from their response thereof. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.)
Plaintiff provides a copy of their subpoena to the LAPD as Exhibit A. (Williams
Decl. ¶ 13.) Defendants do not oppose Plaintiff’s subpoena to the LAPD.
The
subpoena is substantially related to the underlying incident. Therefore, the
Court issues and seals Plaintiff’s subpoena to the LAPD as provided in Exhibit
A.
 
Target Corp.
Plaintiff seeks to
issue a subpoena to Target Corp. to obtain footage of the persons and vehicle
entering Target’s premises at 3535 S. La Cienaga Blvd., Los Angeles, CA, 90016,
directly following the underlying incident. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 8 and 9.)
Plaintiff provides a copy of their subpoena to Target Corp. as Exhibit B.
(Williams Decl. ¶ 14.) Defendants do not oppose Plaintiff’s subpoena to Target
Corp.
The
subpoena is substantially related to the underlying incident. Therefore, the
Court issues and seals Plaintiff’s subpoena to Target Corp. as provided in
Exhibit B.
 
JC Produce, Inc.
Plaintiff
seeks to issue a subpoena to JC Produce, Inc., to produce the work schedule of
Defendant Maria Ewest on the date of the underlying incident. (Williams Decl. ¶
15.) Plaintiff provides a copy of their subpoena to JC Produce, Inc. as Exhibit
C. (Williams Decl. ¶ 15.) Defendants do not oppose Plaintiff’s subpoena to JC
Produce, Inc., in the limited respect as to Maria’s schedule on March 17, 2021.
The
subpoena is substantially related to Maria’s involvement in the underlying
incident. Therefore, the Court issues and seals Plaintiff’s subpoena to JC
Produce, Inc. as provided in Exhibit C.
 
Altagracia
Sanguino, Ruben Sanguino, and the Sanguino Living Trust
Plaintiff seeks to
issue subpoenas to Altagracia Sanguino, an individual, Ruben Sanguino, an
individual, and the Sanguino Living Trust, to obtain Defendant Christopher
Kevin Ewest’s rental applications and, subsequently, information regarding his
income. (Notice of Motion p. 4:6-12.) Plaintiff states this information is
necessary to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. Plaintiff provides
copies of these subpoenas as Exhibits D, E, and F. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 16-18.)
These subpoenas
seek improper discovery at this stage of litigation. “Unlike
defendant's liability insurance, the net dollar value of his other assets, real
and personal, before his liability has been established by judgment, is not the
measure of the collectibility of any judgment which may be entered against
him.” (Doakes v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1968) 257
Cal.App.2d 825, 832.) “[T]he pretrial disclosure of [personal assets] would be
contrary to the public interest and would not be consistent with the policy of
the law.” (Ibid.) Therefore, the Court denies issuance of subpoenas to
Altagracia Sanguino, Ruben Sanguino, and the Sanguino Living Trust.
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
The Court issues and seals Plaintiff’s
subpoenas to the Los Angeles Police Department, Target Corp., and JC Produce,
Inc.
The Court denies issuance of
Plaintiff’s subpoenas to Altagracia Sanguino, Ruben Sanguino, and the Sanguino
Living Trust.
It is so ordered. Moving party to give
notice.
 
 
 
Dated: November 1,
2024                               __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon.
Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior Court
            