 Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
2-2-24
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
QUASH SERVICE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant, ADB Global Trade, LLC dba Classic Stone,
LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. The complaint names a multitude
of parties comprised of suppliers, sellers, etc. The case was deemed
non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of MS International, Inc. to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023,
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief
and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
RULING: Granted.
Specially appearing defendant ADB Global Trade, LLC dba
Classic Stone, LLC (Classic Stone) moves to quash service of the summons and
complaint on grounds of lack of general or specific jurisdiction. Classic Stone
contends it is an Illinois corporation, with no business presence in the state
of California. The court electronic filing system shows no opposition or reply
at the time of tentative ruling publication cutoff. 
 
“When a defendant moves to quash service
of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction. (Citation.) Once facts showing minimum contacts with
the forum state are established, however, it becomes the defendant's burden to
demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.
(Citation.) When there is conflicting evidence, the trial court's factual
determinations are not disturbed on appeal if supported by substantial
evidence. (Citation.) When no conflict in the evidence exists, however,
the question of jurisdiction is purely one of law and the reviewing
court engages in an independent review of the record.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th
434, 449; Shisler v. Sanfer Sports Cars,
Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1258-59.)
 
“A California court may exercise judicial jurisdiction over
nonresidents on any basis not inconsistent with the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution. (Citations.) The general rule is that the forum
state may not exercise jurisdiction over a nonresident unless his relationship
to the state is such as to make the exercise of such jurisdiction reasonable.
If a nonresident defendant's activities may be described as ‘extensive or
wide-ranging’ (Citation) or ‘substantial ... continuous and systematic’ (Citation),
there is a constitutionally sufficient relationship to warrant jurisdiction for
all causes of action asserted against him. In such circumstances, it is not
necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the
defendant's business relationship to the forum.
 
“If, however, the defendant's activities in the forum are
not so pervasive as to justify the exercise of general jurisdiction over him,
then jurisdiction depends upon the quality and nature of his activity in
the forum in relation to the particular cause of action. In such a situation,
the cause of action must arise out of an act done or transaction consummated in
the forum, or defendant must perform some other act by which he purposefully
avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby
invoking the benefits and protections of its laws. Thus, as the relationship of
the defendant with the state seeking to exercise jurisdiction over him grows
more tenuous, the scope of jurisdiction also retracts, and fairness is assured
by limiting the circumstances under which the plaintiff can compel him to
appear and defend. The crucial inquiry concerns the character of
defendant's activity in the forum, whether the cause of action arises out of or
has a substantial connection with that activity, and upon the balancing of the
convenience of the parties and the interests of the state in assuming
jurisdiction. (Citations.)”
 
(Cornelison v.
Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147–148.)
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or
specific. A nonresident defendant may be subject to
the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in
the forum state are ‘substantial ... continuous and systematic.’ (Citations.)
…
 
“If the nonresident defendant does not have substantial and
systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits (Citation), and the ‘controversy is related to
or “arises out of” a defendant's contacts with the forum.’ (Citations.) …
 
“The United States Supreme Court has described the forum
contacts necessary to establish specific jurisdiction as involving variously
a nonresident who has ‘purposefully directed’ his or her activities at forum
residents (Citation), or who has ‘purposefully derived benefit’ from forum
activities (Citation), or ‘“purposefully avail[ed himself or herself] of
the privilege of conducting activities within the forum State, thus invoking
the benefits and protections of its laws.”’ (Citation). The court also has
referred to the requisite forum contact as involving a nonresident defendant
who ‘“deliberately” has engaged in significant activities with a State
[citation] or has created ‘continuing obligations' between himself and residents
of the forum [citation]’ (Citation), concluding that in such cases the
defendant ‘manifestly has availed himself of the privilege of conducting
business [in the forum], and because his activities are shielded by “the
benefits and protections” of the forum's laws it is presumptively not
unreasonable to require him to submit to the burdens of litigation in that
forum as well.’ (Citation.)”
 
(Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 445–446; Muckle v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 218, 227.)
 
General Jurisdiction
General jurisdiction exists only in the defendant’s state of
incorporation or principal place of business. (Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v.
Brown (2011) 131 S.Ct. 2846,
2856-2857; Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014)
134 S.Ct. 746, 749-750; BNSF Ry. Co. v.
Tyrrell (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1549, 1558.) The court noted that “in an ‘exceptional case,’ a corporate defendant's
operations in another forum ‘may be so substantial and of such a nature as to
render the corporation at home in that State.’” (BNSF Ry. Co. v. Tyrrell, supra,
137 S.Ct. at p. 1558 (citing Daimler AG
v. Bauman, supra, 134 S.Ct. at p. 761 (footnote 19).)
 
Classic Stone is an LLC with its principal place of business
in Illinois. Defendant denies any continuous or systematic contacts in
California. [Declaration of Doruk Borecki.] Plaintiff submits no opposition.
The court finds no basis of general jurisdiction against moving defendant.
 
Specific Jurisdiction
“In
order for a court to exercise specific jurisdiction over a claim, there must be
an ‘affiliation between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally,
[an] activity or an occurrence that takes place in the forum State.’ [citation]
When there is no such connection, specific jurisdiction is lacking regardless
of the extent of a defendant's unconnected activities in the State. [citation
(‘[E]ven regularly occurring sales of a product in a State do not justify the
exercise of jurisdiction over a claim unrelated to those sales’)].)” (Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of
California, San Francisco County, supra, 137 S.Ct. 1773, 1781.)
 
Defendant contends other than identification of Classic
Stone in the complaint, Plaintiff lacks any basis for any association between
Decedent’s alleged exposure to hazardous materials and Classic Stone. Assuming
Decedent actually worked with material from Classic Stone, Plaintiff still
lacks any opposition establishing a basis of jurisdiction simply based on the
presence of the materials supplied by Classic Stone. The lack of any argument
or evidence establishing a nexus also undermines any finding of specific
jurisdiction. 
 
The court therefore grants the unopposed motion to quash.
 
Motion to Quash, Case Management Conference, and two OSCs
re: Sanctions set for April 15, 2024.


Classic Stone to give notice to all parties. 
 