 Case Number:  23SMCV03299    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  I The court would normally be inclined to grant the
motion.  The contract is one of adhesion,
which is sufficient to satisfy the procedural prong of the test, but that would
not be enough to warrant denial of the motion. 
Plaintiff must still demonstrate substantive unconscionability.  All of plaintiff’s arguments are unconvincing
to the court save one: the location of the arbitration.  The contract requires that the arbitration
occur in Santa Clara County—300 miles from where plaintiff lives.  (The court is less concerned about the other
issues; the court does not believe that the clause is really so confusing as to
be unconscionable, the fees are to be paid by defendant to the extent they
exceed what would be normal court costs, and the clause appears to be mutual
when the language is actually read in context.) 
Defendant, for the first time in reply, offers to waive the location
limitation and litigate in Los Angeles (or, relatedly, suggests that the term
be severed).  The court needs to know
more.  Specifically, if the clause has
some legitimate reason for being there, the court would be inclined to agree
with the defense and allow the defense to waive the clause or to sever it.  On the other hand, the court has seen some
situations in which a plainly unlawful clause is inserted into a contract.  The party inserting the clause has no
intention of ever trying to enforce the clause, and will readily waive it if
push comes to shove.  The reason it is
there is not so that it can be enforced; it is to intimidate the potential
plaintiff from bringing litigation in the first place.  (This is a tactic sometimes used in the
context of a non-compete clause.  Such
clauses are generally illegal in California, but they often find their way into
contracts with a penalty provision that is intimidating.  The goal is not to enforce the clause—it
could never be enforced.  It is to
convince a potential plaintiff not to compete at all for fear of the
clause.  Penalty provisions masquerading
as liquidated damages clauses are often similar.)  If that is the case here, then the court will
not sever the clause and will not order arbitration.  On the other hand, if the clause generally
serves a proper purpose but in this fact pattern does mischief, the court would
be inclined to sever it and take defendant up on its agreement to arbitrate
here, where plaintiff resides.  The court
will hear from the defense, then, as to why the clause is there in the first
place.  The court will also inquire as to
why this was not discussed in the moving papers.