 Case Number:  22SMCV02870    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles – West District
Beverly Hills
Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
GASPAR ZATIKIAN,
  et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
THE REXFORD, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22SMCV02870
 
  Hearing Date:  September 13, 2024
 
 
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
  DEFENDANT GAUTAM
  MEHRA’S 
  MOTION TO CONTINUE
  TRIAL AND 
  ALL TRIAL-RELATED DATES



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute between
two homeowners, their homeowners’ association and their neighbor.  Plaintiffs Gaspar Zatikian and Meline
Zatikian own Unit 101 in 125 South Rexford Drive, Beverly Hills, California
90212.  The Residence is one of ten (10)
units located in a condominium project referred to as the Wilshire Rexford.  Defendant The Rexford, Inc. is the homeowners’
association.  Defendant Gautam Mehra is Plaintiffs’
upstairs neighbor, the owner of Unit 201. 
Plaintiffs makes various complaints about Defendants, including water
leaks and noise complaints.  
This hearing is on Defendant Gautam
Mehra’s (“Moving Defendant’s) motion to continue trial and all trial-related
dates.  The trial is currently scheduled
for October 14, 2024.  Moving Defendant
seeks a 120 day trial continuance.  All
Defendants have agreed to the continuance, and Plaintiff has not stated an
objection to the continuance.  Moving
Defendant argues its counsel (Koletsky, Mancini, Feldman & Morrow) only
recently associated into the case in late July 2024; counsel has a four week
trial set to start on September 25, 2024, and a continuance is necessary to
allow the parties to take party depositions, take percipient and expert witness
depositions, complete discovery, attend mediation, and if necessary, prepare
for trial.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
Trial
dates are firm to ensure prompt disposition of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (a).) 
Continuances are thus generally disfavored.  (See id., rule 3.1332, subd.
(b).)  Nevertheless, the trial court has
discretion to continue trial dates.  (Hernandez
v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)  Each request for continuance must be
considered on its own merits and is granted upon an affirmative showing of good
cause.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (c); Hernandez, supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at p.
1246.)  
Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential
lay or expert witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) the unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (3) the unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; (4) the substitution of trial counsel where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice; (5) the addition of a new party if (A) the new party has
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or
(B) the other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the
case; (6) a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) a significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).) 
The
court must also consider such relevant factors as: (1) the proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time,
or delay of trial caused by any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.  (Id., rule 3.1332,
subd. (d).)
DISCUSSION
Moving Defendant requests a four month continuance
from October 14, 2024 to February 11, 2024 to allow his new counsel to get up
to speed on the case and for the parties to complete discovery.  Moving Defendant’s counsel also has a four
week trial set to start on September 25, 2024. 

Moving Defendant has not made an
affirmative showing that the substitution of counsel is in the interests of
justice.  Nor has he shown that the
parties have been diligent in pursuing discovery, and notwithstanding this
diligence, discovery is yet to be completed. 
It appears the parties have not done much discovery, and there is no
explanation why that is so.  Also, there
is no indication that counsel’s other trial, set to start on September 25, 2024,
is likely to go forward.  On balance,
therefore, the Court does not see a need for a continuance at this time.   
 
 
CONCLUSION
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Moving Defendant’s motion to continue
trial and all trial-related dates.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 13,
2024                                   ___________________________
                                                                                    Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court