  Case Number:  20SMCV01277    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



THE MAYME A. CLAYTON LIBRARY AND MUSEUM,
  et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
MARVIN BOATENG, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  20SMCV01277
 
  Hearing Date:  September 13, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  Plaintiffs’ AND CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ 
  MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL AND 
  order striking cross-defendants 
  answer and entering DEFAULT 
  AGAINST CROSS-DEFENDANTS
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This case arises from a dispute between a
non-profit organization and its board members. 
The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum (“MCLM”) was created by Dr.
Mayme A. Clayton, a university librarian, to house a collection of African
American literature and art.  Defendants
Steven Fisher, Lindsay Hughes, and Dr. Ruth Jackson were members MCLM’s Board
of Directors.  
Plaintiffs MCLM and Renai V. Clayton, Jr.
(“Plaintiffs”) allege that when their terms expired, Defendants continued to
hold illegitimate board meetings, refused to set a meeting to elect new board
members, refused to acknowledge duly elected board members, continued doing
business under false authority, and siphoned funds for their personal use.  Plaintiffs further allege Defendants’ attempt
to put the collection at California State University at Dominguez Hills (“CSUDH”)
violated the bylaws and purposes of MCLM. 
On September
11, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against Defendants.  On June 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint.  On January 19, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).  
On July
27, 2022, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs and added a new
party, Lloyd L. Clayton as Cross-Defendant (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”).  The Cross-Complaint
sought relief for (1) express indemnity, (2) equitable indemnity, (3)
contribution and (4) declaratory relief. 
The Cross-Defendants were served with the Cross-Complaint by email to
their then-attorney of record.  On
February 24, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed a joint answer.  
Due to
repeated failures of the Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants to appear at hearings,
submit trial documents and comply with the Court’s Orders, the Court set an
Order to Show Case (“OSC”) hearing on March 18, 2024.  At the hearing which was also the date set
for trial to start, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants did not appear, and
accordingly, the Court dismissed Plaintiffs’ SAC, struck Cross-Defendants’
answer, and entered default against Cross-Defendants.    
This
hearing is on Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ motion to vacate (1) dismissal of the
SAC, (2) order striking Cross-Defendants’ answer, and (3) order entering default
against Cross-Defendants.  Cross-Defendants
argue that the repeated failures to appear were due to prior counsel’s inexperience
and error.  Prior counsel practiced child
dependency law and claims she was “unable to get up to speed with the numerous
and detailed procedural rules in civil litigation.”  
LEGAL STANDARD
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §473(b), both
discretionary and mandatory relief are available to parties when a case is
dismissed.  Discretionary relief is
available under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
(Code of Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) 
Alternatively, mandatory relief is available
when “accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” 
(Id.)  The purpose of the
attorney affidavit provision is to “relieve the innocent client of the burden
of the attorney’s fault, to impose the burden on the erring attorney, and to
avoid precipitating more litigation in the form of malpractice suits.”  (Hu v. Fang (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
61, 64.)  Mandatory
relief is available even if counsel’s neglect was inexcusable.  (SJP
Limited Partnership v. City of Los Angeles (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 511,
516–517.)  
An application for discretionary or mandatory
relief must be made no more than six months after entry of the judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v.
IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
“[W]hen relief under section
473 is available, there is a strong public policy in favor of
granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court[.]” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975, 981-82.)  Any doubt in
applying section 473, subdivision (b), must be resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief.  (Bonzer v. City of
Huntington Park
(1993) 20 Cal. App. 4th 1474, 1477-1478.)  
Where relief is promptly sought and no prejudice would be
done to the opposing party, only very slight evidence is required to justify
the setting aside of a default.  For
this reason, orders denying relief under section 473 are carefully scrutinized
on appeal.  (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975,
980; Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227,
233.)
DISCUSSION
The mandatory relief provision of §473(b)
refers to both “default judgment or dismissal”.  The inclusion of “dismissal” by the
Legislature was intended to “put plaintiffs whose cases are dismissed for
failing to respond to a dismissal motion on the same footing with defendants
who are defaulted for failing to respond to an action.”  (Jackson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals,
Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 166, 175.).  
However, although the language of the
mandatory provision, on its face, affords relief from unspecified ‘dismissals’ caused
by attorney neglect, “our courts have, through judicial construction, prevented
it from being used indiscriminately by plaintiffs’ attorneys as a ‘perfect
escape hatch’ to undo dismissals of civil cases.”  (Nacimiento Regional Water Management Advisory Committee
v. Monterey County Water Resources Agency
(2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 961, 967.)  
Courts have construed the provision as reaching only dismissals
that are “procedurally equivalent to a default.”  (Jackson, 32 Cal.App.4th at
174.)  Dismissals that are sufficiently
distinct from a default, thereby falling outside the scope of the mandatory provision, include “dismissals for
failure to prosecute, dismissals for failure to serve a complaint within three
years, dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations and voluntary
dismissals entered pursuant to settlement.” (Leader v. Health
Industries of America Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 620.)  
Here,
the dismissal was due to Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ failure to prosecute.  Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ repeated
failures to appear constitute a failure to prosecute. Accordingly, mandatory
relief is not available.  
The
Court also concludes discretionary relief is not warranted.  As a general rule, a party who
seeks discretionary relief under Code Civ. Proc. § 473 must
demonstrate the mistake, inadvertence, or general neglect of their attorney is
something other than professional negligence because “the negligence
of the attorney...is imputed to his client and may not be offered by the latter
as a basis for relief... The client’s redress for inexcusable neglect by
counsel is, of course, an action for malpractice.”  (Carroll v. Abbott,
32
Cal.3d at 898 (internal
citations omitted).)
In
determining whether an attorney’s neglect is excusable, the question is whether
the attorney’s conduct is “fairly imputable to the client, i.e., mistakes
anyone could have made.”  In contrast, “[c]onduct
falling below the professional standard of care” is not excusable. (Zamora v. Clayborn
Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 22 Cal.4th 249, 258.)  
            Here, Plaintiffs’ former counsel, Kimberly
Hollins, attests she failed to appear at the various court hearings because of
her inexperience.  While this failure
amounts to professional negligence and does provide a basis for relief.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
motion to set aside dismissal of the SAC, to vacate the striking of their
Answer, and to vacate the entry of default on the Cross-Complaint against them.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: September 13, 2024                                             ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court