 Case Number:  23PSCV01579    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Pomona Healthcare  & Wellness Center, LLC and Pomona Nursing & Healthcare Centre, LLC’s Motion  to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings Respondent: Plaintiffs  Rochelle Wells and Rebecca D. Donahoo TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Pomona  Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC and Pomona Nursing & Healthcare  Centre, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is DENIED IN  PART as to Defendant Pomona Nursing & Healthcare Centre, LLC and Plaintiff  Rebecca D. Donahoo’s Claims against Defendants Pomona Healthcare & Wellness  Center, LLC. Furthermore, Defendant  Pomona Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and  Stay Proceedings is GRANTED IN PART as to Plaintiff Rochelle Wells’s Claims  against Defendant Pomona Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC BACKGROUND This  is a wrongful death action. From April 2019 to December 2022, Robin Marie Wells  was chronically ill and under the care of multiple healthcare institutions including  Defendants Pomona Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC (PHWC), Pomona Nursing & Healthcare Centre, LLC (PNHC),  and Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (PVHMC). On December 20, 2022, Robin  Wells died while under the care of PHWC. On  May 25, 2023, Rochelle Wells and Rebecca D. Donahoo, individually and on the  behalf of Robin Wells’s estate, filed a complaint against PHWC, PNHC, PVHMC, the  County of Los Angeles (the County), and Does 1-200, alleging the following  causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) dependent adult abuse, (3) willful  misconduct, (4) wrongful death, and (5) survival. On August 31, the court  overruled a demurrer to the Complaint by PVHMC. On March  4, 2024, PHWC and PNHC filed the present motion. A hearing on the present  motion is set for March 28 along with a case management conference/status  conference re: ADR. ANALYSIS PHWC  and PNHC move to compel Rochelle Wells and Donahoo to arbitration pursuant to  an arbitration agreement. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS the  motion in part as to Rochelle Wells’s claims against PHWC, and DENIES the  motion in part as to PNHC and as to Donahoo’s claims against PHWC. Legal  Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA)applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, PHWC and PNHC argue the present action is subject to an arbitration agreement  that was executed on November 25, 2020, by Rochelle Wells. (Lora Decl., Ex. A.)  The arbitration agreement states it is between PHWC and Rochelle Wells as the  agent or legal representative for Robin Wells. (Lora Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) In  opposition, Rochelle Wells and Donahoo argue PHWC failed to establish how  Rochelle Wells had the legal authority to bind Robin Wells and Robin Wells’s  estate to the arbitration agreement. “When a defendant contends an agreement to arbitrate is  binding because it was signed by an agent of the plaintiff, the defendant bears  the burden of proving the signatory was the plaintiff's actual or ostensible  agent.” (Kinder v. Capistrano Beach Care Center, LLC (2023) 91  Cal.App.5th 804, 812 (Kinder).) Actual agency occurs “when the agent is  really employed by the principal” (Civ. Code, § 2299) while ostensible agency  occurs “when the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a  third person to believe another to be his agent who is not really employed by  him.” (Civ. Code, § 2300.) In other words, ostensible agency requires the  following: “(1) conduct by the [principal] that would cause a reasonable person  to believe that the [alleged agent] was an agent of the [principal], and (2)  reliance on that apparent agency relationship by the plaintiff.” (Mejia v.  Community Hospital of San Bernardino (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1453.) Here, the sole evidence proffered by PHWC in support of their  claim that Rochelle Wells had authority to make decisions on behalf of Robin  Wells is a provision in the arbitration agreement that state as follows: “By virtue of Resident’s consent, instruction and/or  durable power of attorney, I hereby certify that I am authorized to act as  Resident’s agent in executing and delivering of this Arbitration Agreement. I  acknowledge that the Facility is relying on this representation. I also  acknowledge that pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, any claims that I may  assert in my personal capacity that arise out of or relate to the provision of  or failure to provide any services (medical or otherwise) or goods by the Facility  to the Resident or the admission agreement are governed by this Arbitration  Agreement.” (Lora Decl., Ex. A, p. 5.) But  “[a] person cannot become the agent of another merely by representing herself  as such.” (Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th  298, 301 (Pagarigan).) In similar circumstances, multiple courts have rejected  PHWC’s argument that the inclusion of such a provision in the arbitration  agreement signed by the purported agent is sufficient to create actual or  ostensible agency. (Kinder, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 813  [collecting cases]; see also Goldman v. Sunbridge Healthcare, LLC (2013)  220 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1176.) Here, PHWC failed to provide any evidence  establishing how Robin Wells explicitly or implicitly authorized Rochelle Wells  to serve as Robin Wells’s agent. In  reply, PHWC argues Rochelle Wells should be equitably estopped from asserting a  lack of authority on the grounds of unclean hands. “A proceeding to compel  arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a  contract.” (Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d  473, 479.) The doctrine of unclean hands is an equitable remedy that allows the  court to deny relief “to one tainted with inequitableness or bad faith relative  to the matter in which he seeks relief.” (Farahani v. San Diego Community  College Dist. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1495, quoting Camp v. Jeffer,  Mangels, Butler & Marmaro (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 620, 638.) It “does not  require the party seeking relief to be guilty of fraud; it is sufficient if he  merely acted unconscientiously.” (Derosa v. Transamerica Title Ins. Co. (1989)  213 Cal.App.3d 1390, 1396.) Here,  Rochelle Wells signed the provision quoted above that states Rochelle Wells had  authority to sign the agreement as Robin Wells’s legal representative. Thus,  Rochelle Wells is now trapped between a rock and a hard place. If Rochelle  Wells did have authority from Robin Wells to sign the arbitration agreement, Rochelle  Wells and Donahoo would then not be able to oppose the enforceability of the  arbitration agreement on this ground. If Rochelle Wells did not have authority  to sign the arbitration agreement, Rochelle Wells’s assertion to the contrary  would then be deemed a false statement which triggers the application of the  unclean hands doctrine. Accordingly,  the court finds PHWC failed to demonstrate the arbitration agreement at issue  was binding on Donahoo as PHWC failed to establish Rochelle Wells was Robin  Wells agent. Thus, the motion to compel arbitration is DENIED as to  Donahoo. But because Rochelle Wells signed the agreement as Robin Wells’s  purported agent, the court finds Rochelle Wells is estopped from defeating  PHWC’s motion to compel by now claiming Rochelle Wells lacked such authority. The  agreement states parties agree to arbitrate claims for medical malpractice and  any other disputes or claims that “relate or arise out of the provision of  services or health care or any failure to provide services or health care by  [PHWC].” (Lora Decl., Ex. A, § 1.1, 1.2.) The agreement also states it  evidences “a transaction in interstate commerce governed by the [FAA].” (Lora  Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) Last, the agreement states it binds the parties and  includes “the heirs, representatives, executors, administrators, successors,  and assigns of such parties whose claims may arise out of or relate to any  services (medical or otherwise) or goods provided by [PHWC] or the admission  agreement.” (Lora Decl., Ex. A, § 2.2.) Thus,  with regards to Rochelle Wells’s claims, PHWC adequately established the  existence of an applicable arbitration agreement that is governed by the FAA.  But, on the other hand, PNHC failed to establish an applicable arbitration  agreement governed by the FFA. While the arbitration agreement references PHWC,  it makes no reference to PNHC as a party to the arbitration agreement.  Furthermore, PHWC and PNHC’s motion to compel arbitration failed to address why  the arbitration agreement is applicable to PNHC. While PNHC may very well have  grounds to compel arbitration, the present motion failed to identify and  establish those grounds.  Accordingly,  the motion to compel arbitration is DENIED as to PNHC. With  regards to PHWC, the burden now shifts onto Rochelle Wells to establish any  defenses to the enforcement of the arbitration agreement between them. In  opposition, Rochelle Wells argues the arbitration agreement cannot be enforced  due to (1) waiver, (2) unconscionability, and (3) possibility of inconsistent  rulings on issues of facts of law. Rochelle Wells also argues the FAA is  inapplicable to the arbitration agreement because the present agreement does  not involve disputes in interstate commerce. This argument is foreclosed since  the arbitration agreement expressly states the parties agree that the  arbitration agreement involves interstate commerce and is governed by the FAA.  (Lora Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) Last,  Rochelle Wells claims the causes of action for wrongful death or willful  misconduct are not subject to the arbitration agreement. This argument,  however, ignores the fact that the arbitration agreement specifically states it  applies to any claims “that relate or arise out of the provision of services or  health care or any failure to provide services or health care.” (Lora Decl.,  Ex. A, § 1.1.) Because Rochelle Wells’ allegations of willful misconduct and  wrongful death are aimed at PHWC’s actions taken in providing or failing to  provide care for Robin Wells while in PHWC’s care, the arbitration agreement is  applicable. (Complaint, ¶ 264-266, 278.) The  court addresses the remaining points below. Waiver While a petition to compel arbitration may be  denied on grounds of waiver, waiver is not lightly inferred due to the strong  policy favoring arbitration and “the party seeking to establish a waiver bears  a heavy burden of proof.” (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of  California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195.) In determining whether waiver has  occurred, courts consider “(1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent  with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been  substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit’  before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3)  whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial  date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a  defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of  the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking  advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had  taken place; and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the  opposing party.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956,  964 (Davis), quoting Peterson v. Shearson/American Express, Inc. (10th  Cir. 1988) 849 F.2d 464, 467-468.) But in light of the U.S. Supreme Court’s  decision in Morgan v. Sundance, Inc. (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708 (Morgan),  courts no longer consider the sixth factor looking at prejudice. (Davis,  supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 966.) In this case, Rochelle Wells contends PHWC waived its right to  compel arbitration by unreasonably delaying and taking actions inconsistent  with an intent to arbitrate. In contending PHWC unreasonably delayed, Rochelle  Wells points to the fact that PHWC did not seek to compel arbitration until eight  months after they filed their answer on July 26, 2023. But the court notes this  period is only seven months and seven days. In contending this time period was  unreasonable, Rochelle Wells cites to Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998)  61 Cal.App.4th 980 (Sobremonte) and S & H Contractors, Inc. v.  A.J. Taft Coal Co., Inc. (11th Cir. 1990) 906 F.2d 1507 (S & H  Contractors). In Sobremonte,  the court held a defendant “failed to timely and properly assert its  arbitration right” when it waited ten months to compel arbitration after  service of the complaint and six weeks prior to trial. (Sobremonte, supra,  61 Cal.App.4th at p. 992-993.) While the defendant in Sobremonte asserted  the existence of an arbitration agreement in its answer, the court held “mere  assertion of this affirmative defense, without more, does not preclude a  finding that subsequent conduct may cause a waiver of that right.” (Id.,  at p. 993.) In S & H Contractors, the court held an eight-month  delay in demanding arbitration after the initial filing of a complaint  constituted a prejudicial delay. (S & H Contractors, supra,  906 F.2d at p. 1514.) But the reliance on prejudice in S & H Contractors  has since been rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court in Morgan. (See  Morgan, supra, 142 S.Ct. at p. 416 & fn. 1.) Nonetheless, the  delay of eight or ten months noted in Sobremonte and S & H  Contractors itself was not conclusive evidence of waiver as the courts also  considered whether the moving party acted in a manner inconsistent with the  intent to arbitrate. (Sobremonte, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p.  993-994; S & H Contractors, supra, 906 F.2d at p. 1514.) Here,  Rochelle Wells appears to base the waiver argument on PHWC’s lack of action  rather than an affirmative act. While Rochelle Wells claims PHWC “pursued  litigation with the result of obtaining verified pleadings from Plaintiffs that  reveal their legal theories,” Rochelle Wells fails to point to the existence of  any motions or discovery that was filed or propounded by PHWC. Moreover, PHWC’s  own actions appear consistent with preserving their right to arbitrate. After  raising the existence of an arbitration provision as a defense in their answer,  PHWC filed a case management statement on October 10, 2023, that requested a  jury trial, outlined planned discovery requests, and failed to request binding  private arbitration. On December 21, PHWC’s counsel states counsel first  discovered the existence of an arbitration agreement. (Tabibkhoei Suppl. Decl.,  ¶ 3.) On January 8, 2024, PHWC’s counsel then informed Rochelle Wells’s counsel  of the arbitration agreement and requested a stipulation to proceed with  arbitration. (Tabibkhoei Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) On February 23, PHWC filed a case  management statement that noted the applicability of binding private  arbitration and on March 4, PHWC filed the present motion. Based  on these facts, the court does not find PHWC waived its right to compel  arbitration. While PHWC could have immediately sought to compel arbitration in  January 2024 after Rochelle Wells declined the proposed stipulation, the court  does not find a delay by an additional month to be unreasonable. Furthermore,  PHWC’s participation in the litigation so far appears to be passive and not  indicative of a party that is attempting to “game the system” by benefiting  from litigation procedures before reversing course to request arbitration. Unconscionability Pursuant to both federal and state law,  arbitration agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are revocable for  reasons under state law that would render any contract revocable” including  “fraud, duress, and unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014)  226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a  substantive element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to  unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24  Cal.4th 83, 114, quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135  Cal.App.3d 473, 486-487.) While both elements must be present to prevent  enforcement, courts evaluate them as a sliding scale in that “the more  substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural  unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is  unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) In this case, Rochelle Wells maintains the arbitration  agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it was not signed at or near  the time of admission. (Opp., p. 17:19-18:4.) Rochelle Wells failed, however,  to identify a specific provision of the arbitration agreement that is  substantively unconscionable. Because unconscionability requires a showing of  both types of unconscionability, the court finds Rochelle Wells failed to  demonstrate the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. Possibility of Conflicting Rulings Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), the court must deny  a petition to compel arbitration if the following applies: “A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party  to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out  of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a  possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For  purposes of this section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes  an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the  petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the  hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement  to arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health care  provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd.  (c).) But “[w]hen the FAA applies, it preempts any contrary state law and is binding on state as well as federal courts.” (Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263.) The FAA “does not authorize courts to stay arbitration pending resolution of litigation, or to refuse to enforce a valid arbitration provision to avoid duplicative proceedings or conflicting rulings.” (Ibid.) Here,  as noted above, the arbitration agreement at issue states it involves  interstate commerce and is governed by the FAA. (Lora Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) Thus,  the exception in Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) is  inapplicable here as it is not appropriate grounds for refusing to enforce an  arbitration agreement pursuant to the FAA. Accordingly,  the court finds PHWC established the applicability of a binding arbitration  agreement and Rochelle Wells failed to establish an applicable defense to the  enforcement of that agreement.  Therefore,  PHWC’s motion is GRANTED as to Rochelle Wells. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  motion is GRANTED IN PART as to Rochelle Wells’s claims against PHWC.  PHWC and PNHC’s motion to compel arbitration  is DENIED IN PART as to claims against PNHC and claims against PHWC by  Donahoo.