  Case Number:  21STCV00259    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner B.M.’s Petition for Approval of Compromise
of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or a Person
with a Disability
Respondent: Taylor &
Ring, Plaintiff L.C.’s Prior Counsel
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner B.M.’s Petition for Approval of Compromise
of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or a Person
with a Disability is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing set in
Department G (Pomona).
B.M.’s present counsel is ordered to submit a
supplemental declaration supporting counsel’s request for attorney fees by
describing the hours worked by counsel or providing an estimation if counsel
failed to document the hours worked.
Furthermore, to the extent B.M. requests reimbursement
for non-litigation costs as outlined in Exhibit G to the declaration of B.M.,
B.M. is ordered to submit a supplemental declaration that addresses each
request and provides proper evidence and legal authority for the award of each
request.
BACKGROUND
This
action arises from the sexual abuse of an elementary school student by fellow
students. During the 2016-2017 school year, Plaintiff L.C. was a minor student attending
C.J. Morris Elementary School in the Walnut Valley Unified School District
(WVUSD). During this time, L.C. alleges another classmate sexually abused L.C. on
the school bus and in the classroom. During the 2017-2018 school year, L.C.
alleges other classmates also began to participate in the sexual abuse. When school
administration discovered what was occurring, L.C. alleges they failed to
discipline the abusers which resulted in L.C. leaving the school.
On
January 5, 2021, L.C., by and through guardian ad litem B.M., filed a complaint
against WVUSD and Does 1-60, alleging (1) negligent supervision of minors, (2)
breach of mandatory duty, (3) racial discrimination, (4) violation of Civil
Code sections 51.9 and 52, and (5) negligence. On December 1, the court sustained
a demurrer to the Complaint by WVUSD in part with leave to amend.
On
December 21, 2021, L.C. filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
defendants alleging (1) negligent supervision of minors, (2) breach of
mandatory duty, (3) violation of Civil Code sections 51.9 and 52, and (4)
negligence.
On
November 3, 2023, L.C.’s counsel submitted a petition to confirm minor’s compromise.
Subsequently, L.C.’s counsel was replaced by new counsel and the petition was
withdrawn on November 29.
On
March 11, 2024, B.M. submitted the present petition on L.C.’s behalf. A hearing
on the petition is set for March 28.
ANALYSIS
B.M.
petitions for the court’s approval of a $6,800,000 settlement reached between L.C.
and WVUSD.
Legal Standard
An
enforceable settlement of a minor’s or incompetent’s claim can only be
consummated with court approval. (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 372.) For this purpose, a petition for approval must be presented
to the court and until it is granted, there is no final settlement. (Scruton
v. Korean Air Lines Co. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1596, 1603-1606.) Any
settlement agreement therefore is voidable by the minor’s guardian ad litem. (Id.,
at p. 1606.)
Probate
Code section 3600, et seq., governs how the settlement proceeds are to be paid.
Pursuant to Probate Code section 3601, the order shall approve payment of
reasonable expenses from the settlement as follows:
The court making the order or giving the judgment
referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make a further order
authorizing and directing that such reasonable expenses (medical or otherwise
and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator), costs, and
attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall be paid
from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the benefit of the
minor or incompetent person. (Prob. Code, § 3601, subd. (a).)
In
cases pursuant to Probate Code section 3601, “unless the court has approved the
fee agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court 7.955, subd. (a)(1).) In doing so, “[t]he
court must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made
between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances
existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.” (Cal. Rules of Court 7.955,
subd. (a)(2).)
Discussion
The current matter involves the
alleged sexual assault of minor plaintiff L.C. which occurred while L.C. was
attending C.J. Morris Elementary School.
Pursuant to the settlement
agreement reached between the parties, WVUSD will pay a total of $6,800,000 to L.C.
With regards to attorney fees
and costs, B.M. requests $2,040,000 in attorney fees, which constitutes 30% of
the gross recovery, and $23,968.73 in costs for L.C.’s previous counsel. In
Attachment 13(a), L.C.’s counsel proposes dividing the $2,040,000 in requested
attorney fees to $1,700,000 (25% of gross recovery) for L.C.’s former counsel
and $340,000 in attorney fees (5% of gross recovery) for L.C.’s current
counsel. (Attach. 13(a), Boyce Decl., Ex. K.) L.C.’s former counsel oppose
B.M.’s request, arguing they are entitled to $2,720,000 or 40% of the gross
recovery as stated in their retainer agreement minus any reasonable fees
awarded to L.C.’s current counsel.
In ruling on a petition to
confirm minor’s compromise, the court has the power to calculate the reasonable
fee awards when there are competing claims for attorney fees. (See Padilla
v. McClellan (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1105-1106.) L.C.’s former counsel
provided a copy of their contingency fee agreement as Exhibit B to the
declaration of Neil K. Gehlawat, Esq. In it, attorney fees for L.C. will be 40%
of the total gross recovery if recovery is obtained. (Gehlawat Decl., Ex. B, ¶
4.) In requesting a reduction of 15% to the former counsel’s requested fees,
L.C.’s current counsel argues case law supports the reduction. (Attach. 13(a),
Boyce Decl., ¶ 31.) The court notes, however, that counsel fails to include any
citations to such case law. Counsel also claims the facts of the abuse rather
than prior counsel’s legal prowess were responsible for the settlement. (Attach.
13(a), Boyce Decl., ¶ 31.)
While the court is certain the
facts of this case played a significant role in motivating WVUSD to settle,
L.C’s current counsel does not provide a reasonable basis upon which the court
may properly discount the work and skill of prior counsel. In a declaration
submitted with the original petition to confirm minor’s compromise, L.C.’s
former counsel provided an overview of their work which included drafting complaints,
reviewing documents, identifying witnesses, participating in multiple
depositions, conducting written discovery, and participating in two mediation
sessions. (Attach. 13(a), Gehlawat Decl., p. 3:1-18.) Furthermore, unlike
present counsel, L.C.’s prior counsel brought the present action with the risk
that they could recover nothing if they failed to succeed. In fact, our supreme
court has explicitly recognized that a contingent fee “may properly provide for
a larger compensation than would otherwise be reasonable” due to the risk
imposed on counsel. (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132,
quoting Rader v. Thrasher (1962) 57 Cal.2d 244, 253.)
Accordingly, the court finds
L.C.’s prior counsel are entitled to the full 40% outlined in their fee
agreement with B.M. and finds such an amount is reasonable and appropriate in
light of the work they accomplished, the outcome they obtained, and the risk
they faced by taking this case on a contingent basis.
While L.C.’s current counsel
requests $340,000 (5% of gross recovery) in attorney fees for counsel’s work in
the present action, the court finds this amount disproportionate and
unreasonable. According to counsel’s declaration, counsel was retained by B.M.
on L.C.’s behalf on November 22, 2023. (Attach. 13(a), Boyce Decl., ¶ 7.) After
withdrawing the original petition that had been filed, L.C.’s counsel then worked
with B.M. and L.C. to craft a new petition that would better address their
concerns. (Attach. 13(a), Boyce Decl., ¶ 10-14.) L.C.’s counsel also describes
counsel’s experience and states counsel’s hourly rate is $550 which the court
finds is reasonable in light of the court’s experience with cases of this nature.
(Attach. 13(a), Boyce Decl., ¶ 29-30.)
Accepting counsel’s hourly
rate of $550, a fee of $340,000 would only be reasonable if counsel had worked
in excess of 618 hours. Further, counsel did not provide support which would
justify that award of feeds.  The court
finds L.C.’s current counsel is not entitled to a multiplier of counsel’s fees since
there was little contingent risk in assuming the handling of a case where a
settlement had already been reached and a petition to approve minor’s
compromise filed.
Accordingly, the court finds
L.C.’s counsel is only entitled to reasonable attorney fees for the actual hours
spent on the present case. The court orders present counsel to provide an
itemization or estimation of the actual hours spent on the case since taking
over on or about November 22, 2023.
The court CONTINUES the
hearing on B.M.’s petition in order for counsel to submit an updated
declaration supporting the request for attorney fees.
Furthermore, to the extent B.M.
requests reimbursement for non-litigation costs as outlined in Exhibit G to the
declaration of B.M., B.M. is ordered to submit a supplemental declaration that
addresses each request and provides proper evidence and legal authority for the
award of each request.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court CONTINUES the hearing on B.M.’s petition to a date to be
determined at the hearing set in Department G (Pomona). B.M.’s present
counsel is ordered to submit a supplemental declaration supporting counsel’s
request for attorney fees by describing the hours worked by counsel or
providing an estimation if counsel failed to document the hours worked.
Furthermore, to the extent B.M.
requests reimbursement for non-litigation costs as outlined in Exhibit G to the
declaration of B.M., B.M. is ordered to submit a supplemental declaration that
addresses each request and provides proper evidence and legal authority for the
award of each request.