 Case Number:  24TRCV01321    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                Tuesday, September 10, 2024 Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 7
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Amelia
Palmer v. Uber Technologies, Inc., et al.
24TRCV01321
1.      Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and to Dismiss or Stay Action 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and to Dismiss or Stay Action is granted. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 18, 2024.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges that she was a
passenger in Defendants’ vehicle when it was involved in a motor vehicle
accident. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  [Citation.]  To further
that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies.  [Citation.]  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.  (§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.  In these summary proceedings,
the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing
arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot
be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation. 
[T]he contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the
parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors contracts for
arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy compelling persons
to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to
arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs (2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
“Under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel, [...] a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined
with the underlying contract obligations. By relying on contract terms in a
claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff
may be equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in
that agreement. Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory
has a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495–96 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Defendant moves for an order
compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and for an order for dismissal or stay
pending completion of arbitration.  The
motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1281 et seq. and the FAA,
on the grounds Plaintiff is bound by a written agreement to arbitrate the
subject matter of the Complaint. Defendant argues that a valid arbitration
agreement exists between the parties that requires arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims.  
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
states, in relevant part: “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]”
“Generally, an arbitration agreement must be memorialized in writing. A party's
acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs
the agreement. A signed agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's
acceptance may be implied in fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An
arbitration clause within a contract may be binding on a party even if the
party never actually read the clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236
(internal citations omitted).
 
Defendant contends that
Plaintiff agreed to the arbitration clause when accepting the terms of use when
agreeing to the Uber Ride Terms of Use.  (Decl.,
Chenshan Yu, Exs. A-D.) The purported agreement states that “you and Uber agree
that any dispute, claim or controversy in any way arising out of or relating to
(i) these Terms and prior versions of these Terms, or the existence, breach,
termination, enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof, (ii)
your access to or use of the Services at any time, (iii) incidents or accidents
resulting in personal injury that you allege occurred in connection with your
use of the Services, whether the dispute, claim or controversy occurred o:r
accrued before or after the date you agreed to the Terms, or (iv) your
relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding arbitration between you and
Uber, and not in a court of law. This Agreement survives after your
relationship with Uber ends.”. (Id. at Exhibit D.)
 
Plaintiff filed a written
opposition essentially arguing that Defendant did not provide evidence that
Plaintiff agreed to the terms of service. The burden of production of evidence
in the context of a motion to compel arbitration was cogently articulated by
the following case. “First, the moving party bears the burden of producing
prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy. The
moving party can meet its initial burden by attaching to the [motion or]
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the [opposing
party's] signature. Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by
setting forth the agreement's provisions in the motion. For this step, it is
not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication. If
the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party
does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more
is required for the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion. [¶] If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party
disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the
burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.
The opposing party can do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party
may testify under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never
saw or does not remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed
or does not remember signing the agreement. [¶] If the opposing party meets its
burden of producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must
establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties. The burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence
remains with the moving party.” Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165–166 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Defendant has met its
initial burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written agreement to
arbitrate pursuant to the declaration of Chenshan Yu. As noted above, at this
stage, Defendant need only show prima facie evidence of the existence of an
arbitration agreement which it has properly done. Defendant has provided specific
information to show that Plaintiff agreed to the terms of service and, in fact,
provides facts to indicate that Plaintiff could not have used Defendant’s
services without agreeing to the terms of service.
 
Thus, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff to produce evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement,
by, for example, challenging that she ever agreed to the agreement. This, of
course, would be challenging considering that no party appears to dispute that
Plaintiff was a passenger in a Uber vehicle at the time of the incident and
that Plaintiff could not have used Uber without agreeing to the terms of
service. However, the Court notes that Plaintiff produced no competent evidence
to challenge the agreement. Thus, the burden does not shift to the third step
where the moving party must establish with admissible evidence a valid
arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
Therefore, Defendant has met
its initial burden to show the existence of an arbitration agreement. Thus, the
burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the arbitration clause should not be
enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223. Plaintiff did not meet
her burden to show that the arbitration agreement should not be enforced. 

            Plaintiff attempts to argue
the that the agreement is unconscionable. A court can invalidate an arbitration
agreement when it is unconscionable or against public policy.  See,
Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two
elements:  procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability.  
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive' element, the former focusing on
‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results. 
The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability." But they need not be present in the same degree.
Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at
114.      
 
“The traditional standard of
unconscionability . . . is that the inequality amounting to fraud must be so
strong and manifest as to shock the conscience and confound the judgment of any
man of common sense.   Subsequent
decisions have defined an unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms,
such as a contract that no man in his senses and not under delusion would make
on the one hand, and as no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Procedural unconscionability
may be established by showing oppression and surprise.  Oppression occurs where the parties have
unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of meaningful
negotiations.  Surprise recognizes the
extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden.
 
“In many cases of adhesion
contracts, the weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also
any realistic opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he
must either adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have elements of an
adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
“[C]ourts, including ours,
have used various nonexclusive formulations to capture the notion that
unconscionability requires a substantial degree of unfairness beyond a
simple old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important.
Commerce depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed
written contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by
complaining that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all
one-sided contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various
intensifiers in our formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’
‘unreasonably favorable.’ The ultimate issue in every case is
whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all
relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold enforcement.” Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations
and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). 
 
To support her procedural
unconscionability argument, Plaintiff simply argues that the agreement is an
adhesion contract. Defendant has adequately established that Plaintiff agreed
to the arbitration agreement. It is not an adequate defense to enforcement that
Plaintiff failed to read and understand the agreement before signing the
agreement. Caballero v. Premier Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 512, 519. In addition, Defendants have no obligation to highlight,
explain, or discuss the terms of the arbitration agreement as any such
requirement would be contrary to the FAA. Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co.,
LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 914-15.
 
The required level of
oppression and surprise is lacking here. Therefore, the Court finds that the
arbitration was not procedurally unconscionable. In addition, the parties agreed
that issues regarding arbitrability would be decided by the arbitrator. “The
parties agree that the arbitrator ("Arbitrator"), and not any
federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have exclusive authority to
resolve any disputes relating to the interpretation, applicability,
enforceability or formation of this Arbitration Agreement, including any claim
that all or any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable. The
Arbitrator shall also be responsible for determining all threshold
arbitrability issues, including issues relating to whether the Terms are
unconscionable or illusory and any defense to arbitration, including waiver,
delay, laches, or estoppel.” (Decl., Yu, Ex. B.) 
 
As noted above, both
procedural and substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision. Plaintiff
submitted insufficient evidence to support the procedural unconscionability
element. Thus, the Court need not even address the substantive
unconscionability arguments. 
 
Therefore, the Motion to
Compel Arbitration is granted. The Court action is ordered stayed. 
 
An OSC re: status of
arbitration is set for ____________. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.
 