  Case Number:  19STCV05254    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 16, 2024               TRIAL DATE: January
28, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Mehringer v. City of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05254            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Nicole Mehringer
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City of
Los Angeles.
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/15/19:
     Complaint filed.
01/11/22:
     First Amended Complaint filed

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            Plaintiff was terminated by the
Los Angeles Police Department following a Board of Rights hearing regarding
misconduct by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that her termination was in
retaliation for whistleblowing regarding misconduct of other police officers. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Requests for Production propounded to Defendant. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Requests for Production propounded to Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Defendant’s responses to the
discovery requests at issue were served on August 6, 2024. (Declaration of
Diana Wang Wells ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) As this motion was filed and served on August
19, 2024, less than two weeks later, this motion is timely. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff states that
she met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel via email and telephone between
August 12, 2024 and August 16, 2024. (Wells Decl. ¶¶ 6-10 Exhs. 1-2.) During
that time, the parties were unable to reach an agreement on this issue. 
 
Good Cause
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Request for Production Set Two Nos. 37 and
38 propounded to Defendant. These requests seek the transcripts of the Board of
Rights’ in-camera review of documents requested by Plaintiff via a Pitchess motion
on December 4 and December 10, 2018, respectively. 
 
Obtaining discovery of peace officers’
personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery
“must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the discovery,’
first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the pending
litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the police
agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior Court
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause for the
discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only
that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of
relevance.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or
disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the
Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code § 1043(a).) 
 
Penal Code § 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the
public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code §
832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these
complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id.
§ 832.5(b) [emphasis added].) They “may be maintained either in the peace or
custodial officer’s general personnel file or in a separate file designated by
the department or agency.” (Ibid.) 
 
The term “personnel records” is defined as follows: 
 
“Personnel
records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her
employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following: 
 
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information. 
 
(2) Medical
history. 
 
(3)
Election of employee benefits. 
 
(4)
Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline. 
 
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties. 
 
(6) Any
other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy. 
 
(Penal Code § 832.8(a).) Under
Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of these records by
filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code §
1043(a).)
 
            The documents which Plaintiff seeks
consist of reports or findings relating to complaints by against LAPD officers
and, thus, would inherently contain information from peace officer records. In
the Court’s view, the proper method for seeking disclosure of transcripts of in
camera hearings on a Pitchess motion is not through ordinary
requests for production pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210 et
seq, but through a Pitchess motion pursuant to Evidence Code section
1043. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause
for these requests in the form in which they have been made.
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff also requests sanctions
against Defendant. As Plaintiff is not the prevailing party on this motion, she
is not entitled to sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 16,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 