 Case Number:  21STCV06333    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
HEARING DATE:     September 16, 2024               TRIAL DATE: October 14, 2024

 
CASE:                         Laksh, Inc. et al. v. Templar
Transportation Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV06333
            
 
(1)  
MOTION FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS
(2)  
MOTION FOR ASSIGNMENT ORDER

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant BLTN, Inc. (2) Plaintiffs Laksh, Inc.
and JROD Brothers, Inc. as Judgment Creditors
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiffs
Laksh, Inc. and JROD Brothers, Inc. (2) Defendant BLTN, Inc. as Judgment Debtor
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/16/21:
     Complaint filed.
06/22/21:
     First Amended Complaint filed.
03/22/22:
     Second Amended Complaint filed. 
09/15/22:
     Third Amended Complaint filed.
04/05/23:
     Default judgment against BLTN, Inc.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an
action for breach of contract regarding the rights of the various parties to provide
package delivery services to certain FedEx delivery areas. 
 
Defendant BLTN, Inc. moves for a
stay of the entire action pending resolution of its appeal from the order
denying its motion to set aside a default and default judgment. Plaintiffs move
for an assignment order to enforce the judgment against BLTN, Inc. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Stay is
DENIED. 
 
Judgment Creditors’ Motion for
Assignment Order is GRANTED. The Court will hear further arguments from the
parties regarding the appropriate proportion of the Assignment at the hearing
on this Motion. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Stay
 
Defendant BLTN, Inc. moves to stay
the entire action pending resolution of its appeal from the Court’s order
denying Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment.
 
Legal Standard for Stay Pending Appeal
 
Our Supreme Court explained the
standard for a stay of proceedings pending appeal as follows:
 
Subject to certain exceptions not
relevant here, “the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial
court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced
therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order,
but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action
and not affected by the judgment or order.” ([Code Civ. Proc.] § 916,
subd. (a).) The purpose of the automatic stay provision of section 916,
subdivision (a) “is to protect the appellate court's jurisdiction by
preserving the status quo until the appeal is decided. The [automatic stay]
prevents the trial court from rendering an appeal futile by altering the
appealed judgment or order by conducting other proceedings that may affect
it.” (Elsea v. Saberi (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 625, 629, 5
Cal.Rptr.2d 742 (Elsea).)
 
To accomplish this
purpose, section 916, subdivision (a) stays all further trial court
proceedings “upon the matters embraced” in or “affected” by the appeal. In
determining whether a proceeding is embraced in or affected by the appeal, we
must consider the appeal and its possible outcomes in relation to the
proceeding and its possible results. “[W]hether a matter is ‘embraced’ in or
‘affected’ by a judgment [or order] within the meaning of [section 916] depends
on whether postjudgment [or postorder] proceedings on the matter would have any
effect on the ‘effectiveness' of the appeal.” (In re Marriage of Horowitz (1984)
159 Cal.App.3d 377, 381, 205 Cal.Rptr. 880 (Horowitz).) “If so, the
proceedings are stayed; if not, the proceedings are permitted.” (Betz
v. Pankow (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 931, 938, 20 Cal.Rptr.2d 841 (Betz).)
 
(Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35
Cal.4th 180, 189.) A trial court proceeding affects the “effectiveness’ of an
appeal “if the possible outcomes on appeal and the actual or possible results
of the proceeding are irreconciliable.” (Id. at 190.) 
Procedural History
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this action on February 16, 2021, asserting claims for breach of contract
and conversion against Defendants Templar Transportation Corporation and Nazar
Karaoglanyan, alleging that those Defendants agreed to transfer rights to
provide delivery services to specified FedEx service areas for an agreed-upon
sum, pending approval by FedEx of the transfer. (See Complaint.) Allegedly, the
original Defendants failed to effectuate the transfer and have continued to
collect payments from FedEx for the service area despite no longer providing
delivery services in that zone. (See Complaint.) BLTN Inc. was named as a
Defendant in the Second Amended Complaint, filed March 22, 2022, and in the
operative Third Amended Complaint. The operative pleadings allege that, during
the pendency of this action, the original Defendants sold the service rights at
issue here to BLTN, who purchased the service rights with knowledge of this
dispute. (See TAC ¶ 26.) Plaintiff therefore asserts claims for conversion and
intentional interference with contract against BLTN. (See TAC ¶¶ 45-51; 59-64.)

 
            On November
28, 2022, the Court entered default against BLTN, Inc. on the Third Amended
Complaint for its failure to answer. (See November 28, 2022 Request for Entry
of Default.) Default Judgment was entered against Defendant BLTN, Inc. on April
5, 2023, awarding monetary damages in the amount of $291,600, plus prejudgment
interest and costs of suit. (April 5, 2023 Default Judgment.) The Court also
ordered transfer of the FedEx contract for servicing of the 91605 service area
to Plaintiff JROD Brothers, Inc., and for Defendant BLTN to pay all profits gained
from servicing the territory plus post-judgment interest or, in the alternative,
to pay $720,000 representing the fair-market value for the territory. (Id.)
On February 8, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion to set aside that
default and default judgment, finding that Defendant had not carried its burden
to demonstrate that the default and default judgment should be set aside under
the Court’s inherent equitable authority. (February 8, 2024 Minute Order.) Defendant
perfected an appeal on that ruling on April 8, 2024, the same day this motion
was filed and served. (See Notice of Appeal filed April 8, 2024.) As this
motion was pending, the Court held a Final Status Conference on July 10, 2024, with
the remaining parties concerning the scheduling and conduct of trial in this
action. At that hearing, the Court ordered bifurcation of the trial, with the
first phase as a bench trial to resolve certain legal and equitable issues, and
the second phase to be a jury trial to resolve any remaining issues. (July 10,
2024 Minute Order.) The first phase of trial is set to address the following
issues:
 
1.     
Whether FedEx approval was a condition precedent in the
parties’ contract for Defendants’ sale of the 91605 territory to Plaintiffs […]
 
2.     
Whether Defendants should be equitably estopped from
seeking enforcement of any condition precedent and/or refusing to sell the
91605 territory 
 
3.     
Whether Civil Code section 1624.5(b) applies to the
alleged oral contract to sell the 91352 territory and, if so, whether there is
a sufficient record of agreement to permit enforcement consistent with the
statute of frauds.
 
(July 10, 2024 Minute Order p.2.) Trial on the first phase
issues is currently set for October 14, 2024. (Id.) 
 
Stay of Action
 
            Defendant
argues that its perfecting of an appeal automatically stays this entire action
because “the entire trial court proceeding . . . is embraced in and affected by
the appeal.” (Motion p. 5:16-17.) Defendant’s unsupported assertion is not
sufficient to demonstrate that the entire action should be stayed, and the
issues at hand in the first phase of the proceeding do not, on their face, indicate
that the Default Judgment and the February 8, 2024 ruling would be altered. Nor
do they demonstrate that the forthcoming proceedings would directly or
indirectly seek to enforce, vacate, or modify the appealed order. (See Varian,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at 189.) As Plaintiffs state in opposition, the issues to
be litigated in the first phase concern the contractual relationships between
the various remaining parties, not Defendant’s status as a subsequent
purchaser, bona fide or not. The Court is therefore not persuaded that
Defendant is entitled to a stay of the entire action pending resolution of its
appeal.
 
Stay of Enforcement of Judgment
 
            Defendant
also moves to stay enforcement of the default judgment pending resolution of
the appeal. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 917.1 subdivision (a)(1) states that the perfecting of
an appeal from a money judgment does not stay enforcement of the judgment
unless an undertaking is given. (Code Civ. Proc. § 917.1.) However, the Court
may, in its discretion, waive that requirement if the Court determines that “the
principal is unable to give the bond because the principal is indigent and is
unable to obtain sufficient sureties, whether personal or admitted surety
insurers.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 995.240.) In exercising that discretion, the Court
“shall take into consideration all factors it deems relevant, including but not
limited to the character of the action or proceeding, the nature of the
beneficiary, whether public or private, and the potential harm to the
beneficiary if the provision for the bond is waived.” (Id.)
 
            Defendant concedes
that the April 5, 2024 judgment is a money judgment within the scope of section
917.1(a)(1), and therefore requires an undertaking before enforcement may be
stayed. Defendant requests that the Court exercise its discretion to waive the
undertaking requirement because Defendant cannot obtain the funds necessary to
satisfy the judgment. The Court may only exercise that discretion if the Court
first determines that the Defendant is indigent and is unable to obtain
sufficient sureties. Defendant states in its moving papers that it is
“respectful of what it means to be ‘indigent’ and does not claim to be
‘indigent’ in the literal sense of the word. (Motion p.6:17-18.) As Plaintiffs
note in opposition, however, Defendant must demonstrate that it is, in fact,
indigent before the Court may stay enforcement of the judgment without an
undertaking. Appellate precedent suggests, analogizing to procedures for
dispensation of federal requirements for filing fees, costs, and security, that
a corporation, such as this Defendant, is not a person and cannot establish
indigency as a matter of law. (Williams v. Freedomcard, Inc. (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 609, 615.) Moreover, even assuming that Defendant could claim
indigency, Defendant has not offered persuasive evidence establishing that it
is unable to obtain a surety. The Declaration of Aram Seropian submitted in
support of this motion states only that he has been unable to secure a surety
and undertaking, but offers nothing to indicate what attempts were made, if
any, to secure that surety and why they were unsuccessful. (See Declaration of
Aram Seropian ISO Mot. ¶ 4.) A lack of showing of an unsuccessful effort to
obtain a bond or surety precludes relief under section 995.240. (Williams,
supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at 615.) Defendant has therefore failed to
demonstrate that it is entitled to a waiver of the undertaking requirement.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Stay is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Assignment Order
 
            Plaintiffs,
as Judgment Creditors, move for an assignment order to enforce the default
judgment. 
 
Orders for assignment are governed
by Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510, which provides, in relevant part,
that “upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court
may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor. . . all or
part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is
conditioned on future developments.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 708.510(a).) 
 
The effect and priority of such an assignment
is governed by Civil Code section 955.1. (Code Civ. Proc. § 708.530.) For the
purposes of priority, an assignee of a right to payment pursuant to section 708.530
shall be deemed to be a bona fide assignee for value under the terms of Civil
Code section 955.1.  (Code Civ. Proc.§ 708.530(a).) 
 
In determining whether to order an
assignment or the amount of an assignment pursuant to section 708.510(a), the
court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the
following:  
 

The
     reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and
     of persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor.

 

Payments
     the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in
     satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings
     assignment orders for support. 

 

The
     amount remaining due on the money judgment.

 

The
     amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment
     that may be assigned. 

 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 708.510(c)(1)-(4).) A right to payment
may be assigned pursuant to section 708.510 only to the extent necessary to
satisfy the money judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc.  §708.510(d).) 
 
            Here,
the Judgment Debtor is not a natural person. Counsel for Judgment Creditors states
that the Judgment Debtor has paid nothing on the Judgment. (Declaration of
Kirsten E. Miller ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) Thus, the balance on the judgment is
$324,506.09, accounting for the principal, interest, and fees for the issuance
of a writ of execution. (Id. Exh. G.) Attorney Miller states that,
during a Judgment Debtor’s Examination of BLTN, Inc.’s owner and agent for
service of process, Aram Seropian, Mr. Seropian testified that FedEx contracted
with Judgment Debtor to provide delivery services in a designated area, and
that FedEx pays the Judgment Debtor for those services on a weekly basis. (Id.¶¶
7-8.) Those funds, which are Judgment Debtor’s only source of income, are
deposited into an account at BMO bank. (Id.; see also ¶¶9-11, Exhs.
D-F.) Judgment Creditors seek an order assigning the rights to payment under the
service contract to Judgment Creditors in satisfaction of the Judgment. 
 
            Judgment
Debtor argues that the Court should not issue an order assignment because,
first, the service contract is unique and not assignable. As Judgment Creditors
state in reply, they are not seeking assignment of the contract, but an order
that money which is paid to Judgment Debtor be paid to Judgment Creditors. 
 
Judgment Debtor also argues that
the perfecting of the appeal stays enforcement of this judgment. For the
reasons discussed above with respect to Defendant’s Motion for Stay,
particularly as to stays on enforcement of money judgments, that contention is rejected.

 
            Judgment
Debtor also asserts that the Court should distinguish between gross revenue and
profit, and that, if the order were granted, it would jeopardize Judgment
Debtor’s ability to operate. Although Judgment Debtor cites no authority
standing for the position that either contention is a basis for modification or
denial of the request for an assignment order, the plain language of section
708.510 permits the Court to assign part of a right to payment due or to
become due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 708.510 subd. (a); see also subd. (c).) Moreover,
an assignment which precludes the Judgment Debtor’s ability to operate would
seem to defeat the purpose of an assignment in allowing the Judgment Creditors
to collect what they are owed. To that end, the Court desires further
information from the parties at the hearing on this motion as to the
appropriate proportion of payments to be assigned to Judgment Creditors in an
effort to maximize the probability of full satisfaction of the Judgment.  
 
//
 
//
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Judgment Creditors’ Motion for Assignment Order is GRANTED. The Court will hear
further argument from the parties regarding the appropriate proportion of the
Assignment at the hearing on this Motion. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Stay is
DENIED. 
 
Judgment Creditors’ Motion for
Assignment Order is GRANTED. The Court will hear further arguments from the
parties regarding the appropriate proportion of the Assignment at the hearing
on this Motion. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: September 16, 2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 