 Case Number:  22STCV27077    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 11/14/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV27077 JORDAN SAUNDERS,
et al. vs SETH MEYERS
Moving Party: Defendant Seth Meyers 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART
 
Background
Defendant moves the
court for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff, alleging discovery abuse due
to Plaintiff’s failure to fully comply with the court’s orders issued on
November 29, 2023, November 30, 2023, and January 9, 2024. These orders
directed Plaintiff to provide responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production,
Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One; to appear for deposition; and to
pay monetary sanctions.
Defendant’s motion
cites three alleged violations by Plaintiff:
1.  Outstanding
Monetary Sanctions: Although Plaintiff has paid the
majority of the monetary sanctions, a balance of $2,475 remains unpaid.
2.  Incomplete
Deposition and Document Production: Plaintiff Heinen
appeared for deposition on August 1, 2024. However, Defendant contends that
Plaintiff did not produce all requested documents, resulting in the parties
stipulating to keep the deposition open. Despite this stipulation, Plaintiff’s
counsel has not yet provided dates for the continuation of the deposition.
3.  Failure
to Respond to Recent Discovery Requests: Plaintiff has not
responded to Defendant’s recently served Request for Production, Set Three.
Defendant now seeks
terminating sanctions or, alternatively, issue, evidentiary, or additional
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff due to these alleged violations of court
orders and discovery obligations.
Legal Standard
The Civil Discovery Act
provides for an escalating and “incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York,
Inc.¿(2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)¿Discovery sanctions
should be appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and they “should
not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party
entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a
greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process
warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will
curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also, e.g.,¿Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279-280.)¿“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.¿
But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.’”
(Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390
[citation omitted].) 
        The
primary purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil
Discovery Act and the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v.
Super. Ct.¿(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613;¿Ghanooni
v. Super Shuttle of Los Angeles¿(1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery sanction should not create a “windfall”
for a party or place a party in a better position than it would have been if
the opposing party had simply complied with its obligations under the Court’s
orders and the Civil Discovery Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co.¿(2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶¿8:2214-2220.)¿“[T]the
trial court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate sanction, and we
must uphold the trial court's determination absent an abuse of discretion.” (Dept.
of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154,
19.) 
Discussion
Terminating, issue, and
evidentiary sanctions are inappropriate in this instance because Plaintiff has
substantially complied with the court’s discovery orders, and there is no
evidence of willful noncompliance. Such severe sanctions are reserved for cases
of blatant and intentional disregard of court orders, and Plaintiff’s conduct
does not rise to this level. The court finds that Plaintiff has made
significant efforts to adhere to its prior orders, as follows:
1.  Initial
Discovery Responses: Defendant does not allege that
Plaintiff failed to provide the initial discovery responses required by the
court’s November 29 and November 30 orders. Plaintiff’s timely submission of
these responses demonstrates adherence to the court’s directives on these
matters.
2.  Deposition
Attendance: Plaintiff produced Heinen for his deposition on
August 1, 2024, in compliance with the court's January 9, 2024 order. Although
the parties agreed to a second deposition to complete the production of certain
supplemental documents, the primary deposition has already been substantially
completed. Plaintiff’s compliance in appearing for the deposition shows good
faith in engaging with the discovery process.
3.  Monetary
Sanctions: Plaintiff has paid a substantial portion of the
monetary sanctions ordered by the court, which totaled approximately $8,000,
with a remaining balance of $2,475 unpaid. While the outstanding amount
requires attention, Plaintiff’s partial payments reflect an effort to fulfill
the court’s monetary orders, rather than an intentional disregard of them.
The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s actions do not demonstrate willful non compliance. The purpose of
discovery sanctions is to secure compliance, not to create a “windfall” for a
party by placing them in a more favorable position than they would have been if
the opposing party had fully complied with the court’s orders and the Civil
Discovery Act. Plaintiff’s actions indicate a willingness to cooperate in
discovery, making terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions excessive under
the circumstances. 
Although Plaintiff
filed an opposition to Defendant's motion, Plaintiff only addressed his failure
to timely respond to Meyers’s Request for Production, Set Three, without
addressing the issues of outstanding monetary sanctions or the continued
deposition, as previously ordered by the court. This omission leaves the Court
uncertain as to whether Plaintiff intends to comply with its prior orders to
pay the remaining monetary sanctions and to appear for the continued
deposition. Consequently, the Court finds it appropriate to impose a monetary
sanction to compensate Defendant for the necessity of filing this motion to
compel Plaintiff’s compliance.
While the court
declines to impose terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions at this time,
it grants a monetary sanction in the amount of $2,000 against Plaintiff and his
attorney, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within 20 days of this
order. Additionally, the court orders Plaintiff to appear for the continued
deposition within 20 days and to produce the outstanding documents specified in
the notice of deposition and pay the outstanding sanctions in the amount of
2,475.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 