 Case Number:  22STCV24451    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE 
Hearing Date: 11/14/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV24451 DENEEN KYKER vs
REZA SOLTANIANZADEH, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
On July 28, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case, with trial currently set for December 13,
2024. Plaintiff’s counsel, Thomas G. Adams, notes he has two other trials
scheduled to begin on December 13, 2024—one in Riverside County Superior Court
and the other in Ventura County Superior Court. Additionally, counsel has
twelve trials scheduled between December 13, 2024, and April 16, 2025, and he
is expecting the birth of his child between late December and early January.
Plaintiff also cites various factual discovery that remains incomplete.
Given that this case
was filed on July 28, 2022, discovery should be completed in this
straightforward slip-and-fall case. The Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s
reasoning as to why discovery has not been completed or cannot be completed
before trial. For instance, Plaintiff references ongoing medical treatment;
however, most personal injury cases involve ongoing treatment, which does not
inherently preclude proceeding to trial based on incomplete factual discovery.  The Court also is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s
trial schedule given that counsel has failed to provide the information necessary
to take these potential conflicts into account – counsel fails to indicate case
nos., filing dates, trial time estimates for these cases.  Further, a conclusory statement regarding how
many cases a counsel has on calendar for several months is entirely unhelpful
to the Court.
The Court is supposed
to ensure that civil cases conclude in 2 years (see CRC 3.714). This
case appears to be a relatively simple slip-and-fall matter that has been
pending for over two years. However, in light of counsel’s impending child’s
birth in January, the Court will grant a short continuance, as requested.
The trial date is continued
to April 4, 2025, at 8:30 a.m., and the Final Status Conference is continued to
March 21, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines will follow the new
trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 