  Case Number:  20STCV42438    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  30 ADRIANNE PEARSON vs CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL, INC., et al.TENTATIVEDefendant’s motion for a protective order is DENIED without prejudice. Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in connection with the motion for a protective order is GRANTED. The Court imposes monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $550 to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of this order.Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce PMQs within 20 days of this order. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in connection with the motion to compel is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay Plaintiff’s counsel sanctions in the amount of $1,168.40 within 30 days of this order.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.Legal StandardMotion for Protective OrderWhen an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (C.C.P. §2031.060(a).)CCP § 2025.420(a) states that “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” The issuance and formulation of protective orders are to a large extent discretionary. (See Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)In the context of a protective order to restrict dissemination of documents containing trade secrets in a civil action, Evidence Code sections 1060 and 1061 apply. (Stadish v. Super. Ct. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1144-1145.) Thus, a party seeking a protective order must submit an affidavit based on personal knowledge listing the affiant’s qualifications to give an opinion, identifying the alleged trade secret, identifying documents disclosing the trade secret, and presenting evidence that the secret qualifies as a trade secret. (Evid. Code § 1061, subd. (b)(1).)Under section 1061, subdivision (a)(1), “trade secret” means “trade secret,” as defined in section 3426.1, subdivision (d) of the Civil Code. Thus, “trade secret” means “information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) [d]erives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) [i]s the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.”Motion to Compel Deposition of PMQ“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document… described in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450(a).)This motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document described in the deposition notice. (CCP § 2025.450(b).) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.Code Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides, in pertinent part, as follows:(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production. (b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. ...(CCP § 2025.480(a).)DiscussionMotion for Protective OrderDefendant requests that Plaintiff enter into a protective order for the Deposition of its Person Most Knowledgeable and the related Request for Production in Plaintiff's Notice and Deposition for Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable. Defendant argues that Plaintiff is requesting documents from Chipotle related to its internal business practices (Requests Nos. 1-9, 14-27), internal communications (Requests Nos. 10-12), and employee information (Requests No 13.) (Mayat Decl. ¶ 13; Ex. D.) Defendant argues that all of the documents sought contain information related to economic value as there is information contained in the documents that is not generally known to the public.After numerous meet and confer efforts, the parties have not been able to agree on whether a protective order is warranted.Defendant has not complied with Evidence Code §1061(b) or established good cause for issuance of a protective order. Defendant has not submitted any evidence showing that Plaintiff is seeking the disclosure of any trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, such as a declaration by anyone establishing that Defendant’s trade secrets will be jeopardized if a protective order is not entered. (Civ. Code, § 3426.1(d); Whyte, 101 Cal.App.4th at 1454; see Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc., (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th at 1389.) Further, Defendant cites to no authority which would allow for a blanket protective order as the one requested, which would protect far more than just documents.Therefore, the motion is denied. The denial is without prejudice to the parties’ right to voluntarily enter into the stipulation at issue. The motion is also denied without prejudice to Defendant filing another motion if it obtains the necessary evidence to support it, but only to seek specific orders in connection with specific discovery it identifies. The motion is denied without prejudice to Defendant’s right to object to specific discovery in this case.The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.Sanctions against Defendant are warranted. The Court imposes monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $550 to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of this order.Motion to Compel Depo of PMQOn April 19, 2022, plaintiff served a PMQ deposition notice on defendant. (Steiner Decl., Exh. 1.) On May 12, 2022, defendant served an objection to the deposition notice on the grounds that it was unilaterally noticed and defendant and counsel were not available. (Id., Exh. 2.) Defendant asserted objections to the PMQ topics and all of the production demands. Defendant refused to produce a single document (even sweep sheets and bathroom cleaning logs) or provide deposition testimony, unless it was all marked confidential and subject to the protective order.On December 14, 2022, plaintiff served a second notice of taking the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ on defendant. (Id., Exh. 6.) On January 19, 2023, defendant served an objection on the grounds that the deposition was unilaterally noticed and both defendant and counsel were not available. Defendant again asserted the same objections to the PMQ topics and production demands. (Id., Exh. 7.)Plaintiff’s counsel continued to attempt to meet and confer, and communicated with defense counsel over the telephone. Defendant was adamant that documents would not be produced without a protective order. When Plaintiff’s counsel did not receive a return call as to the dates for the deposition, on December 21, 2023, plaintiff served a third notice of taking a PMQ deposition on defendant. (Id., Exh. 12.) On January 18, 2024, defendant served another objection to plaintiff's PMQ deposition notice on the same grounds. (Id., Exh. 16.)Objections to a notice of the deposition are very limited and may only pertain to errors or irregularities in the deposition notice itself. (CCP § 2025.410, [“Any party served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.].) Article 2 which consists of Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.210-2025.295 provide specific requirements that a deposition notice must satisfy.Here, Defendant objects to the deposition on the ground that Defense counsel and witnesses are unavailable on the date unilaterally selected by Plaintiff’s counsel. As to the specific categories, Defendant objects on the grounds that (1) the categories are not described with sufficient particularity (CCP § 2025.230); (2) they violate the attorney work product doctrine and attorney client privilege; (3) they violate the right to privacy and are related to proprietary business information and/or confidential trade secrets; and (4) that they will require an expert.Most of Defendant’s objections are improper as they are not objections based on the irregularity of the notice. The unilateral setting of a deposition under Los Angeles County Superior Court Rule, Local Rule 3.26 is not a basis for an objection to the notice as all local rules are preempted as to discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.20(a).) Even if it were, the objection is invalid based upon Plaintiff’s numerous meet and confer attempts to schedule a deposition at a mutually convenient time, to no avail. However, an objection as to the specificity of the categories for the person most knowledgeable under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 could constitute a valid objection to the notice.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 provides, in relevant part, that “[i]f the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (CCP § 2025.230.)The Court has reviewed the categories requested and finds that each of the designated categories is clear as to the matters on which the examination is requested.Lastly, the objections based on the work product or attorney client privilege, the right to privacy, trade secrets, and that they will require an expert are improper as the categories in the notice are not deposition questions. The categories in the notice of the deposition are solely for purposes of identifying Defendant’s person(s) most qualified on those issues. (See CCP § 2025.230.) Rather, Defendant’s objections should be raised only to specific objectionable questions during the deposition -- not the notice of the deposition.Accordingly, as Defendant has been noticed to appear at a deposition and has failed to appear, without properly objecting to the notice, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition is GRANTED pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450. Defendant is ordered to produce PMQs within 20 days.Request for Production of Documents in Deposition NoticeAs to the request for production of documents in the deposition notice, a request for production of documents in a deposition notice merely requires that the documents identified are to be produced by the deponent at the deposition. Thus, a request for documents in conjunction with a deposition notice is not the equivalent of a request for production of documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. The non-moving party need not object in advance of the deposition as with an objection to the notice. Rather, objections are timely raised during the deposition and are not waived by the failure to object before the deposition commences. (See CCP § 2025.460.)Here, a request to compel documents under the deposition subpoena is premature as no deposition has yet occurred. Rather, if documents are not produced at the deposition, Plaintiff may then move to compel Defendant to produce the documents. (See CCP § 2025.480; see also CCP § 2025.460(e).)However, the Court will offer the following guidance in an effort to prevent additional motion work. The Court notes the objections are based on the document requests being overly broad, relating to trade secrets and violate the attorney work product privilege.As discussed above, Defendant has failed to show any documents are subject to trade secret. Moreover, as to the attorney client privilege, Defendant would have the burden of showing the preliminary facts to support the privilege. Without these facts, the objection would likely be overruled. Further, the documents requested do not appear to be overly broad.“In general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that party has the burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the privilege.” (Venture Law Group v. Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.) “The party asserting the privilege need only present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.” (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) “After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning the preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to show either the claimed privilege does not apply, an exception exists, or there has been an express or implied waiver.” (Venture Law Group, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.) The court may require the party who opposes the discovery to prepare and serve a “privilege log,” the purpose of which is to make a record of the documents withheld and the privilege claim asserted as to each. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1); Best Products, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188-1189; Wellpoint, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th at 130.) “The information in the privilege log must be sufficiently specific to allow a determination of whether each withheld document is or is not (in) fact privileged.” (Wellpoint, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th at 130.)Lastly, Defendant asserts that the document requests served by Plaintiff in the deposition notice are nearly identical to Plaintiff's Request for Production of Documents, Set one served on May 15, 2022. However, Defendant argues, a party may not serve the same request for production documents more than once.Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff cannot serve the same request for production more than once in this circumstance is unavailing. In Carter v. Superior Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 994, 997, the Court stated that inspection demands under section 2031.010, et seq., and production requests at a deposition are different discovery procedures. (Id.) Nothing in the statutes suggest that seeking documents under one statutory procedure bars a litigant from seeking the same documents under the other (Id.) Thus, failure to bring a motion to compel further within 45 days after responses to a request for production is served does not waive the party’s right to subsequently seek production of documents pursuant to a deposition notice. (Id.)SanctionsIf this motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)Plaintiff has been attempting to take these depositions for two years. Defendant did not act with substantial justification in failing to produce a PMQ without any justification for asserting improper objections to the PMQ categories. Thus, sanctions are imposed against Defendant in the amount of $1,168.40 ($550 x 2 hours + $68.40 filing fee) to be paid within 30 days of this order. Sanctions cannot be awarded against defense counsel because the statute says nothing about imposing sanctions against the attorney.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for a protective order is DENIED without prejudice. Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in connection with the motion for a protective order is GRANTED. The Court imposes monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $550 to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of this order.Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce PMQs within 20 days of this order. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in connection with the motion to compel is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay Plaintiff’s counsel sanctions in the amount of $1,168.40 within 30 days of this order.