  Case Number:  21STCV17690    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  P Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary AdjudicationThe court considered the moving, opposition and reply papersRULINGPMA’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs are the heirs of decedent Jose Santoyo Arenas. Decedent was killed on May 15, 2019 as a consequence of a shipping container top-handler’s front right wheel and tire components exploding. Jose Santoyo Arenas was killed in the explosion. Pedro Chavarin was seriously injured. Plaintiffs allege Arenas’s death was the result of multiple factors, including products liability and negligent training.On May 11, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Taylor Machine Works, Inc., Titan International Inc., OTR Wheel Engineering, Inc., Bridgestone America, Inc., Pacific Maritime Association, CMA/CGM, EQT Infrastructure III, P5 Infrastructure LLC, Cal-Lift, Inc., Crane Certification Services, Inc. and Parkhouse Tire Inc alleging (1) strict products liability (against Defendant Taylor); (2) negligence-products liability (against Defendant Taylor); (3) strict products liability (against Titan); (4) negligence-product liability (against Titan); (5) strict products liability (against OTR); (6) negligence-product liability (against OTR); (7) strict products liability (against Bridgestone); (8) negligent-product liability (against Bridgestone); (9) negligence-wrongful death (against Pacific); (10) negligence-survival action (against Pacific); (11) negligence-wrongful death (against APL); (12) negligence-survival action (against APL); (13) negligence-wrongful death (against CMA/CMG); (14) negligence-survival action (against CMA/CMG); (15) negligence-wrongful death (against EQT); (16) negligence-survival action (against EQT); (17) negligence-wrongful death (against P5 Infrastructure LLC); (18) negligence-survival action (against P5); (19) negligence-wrongful death (against Cal-Lift, Inc.); (20) negligence-survival action (Cal-Lift); (21) negligence-wrongful death (Crane Certification); (22) negligence-survival action (Crane Certification); (23) negligence-wrongful death (Parkhouse Tire, Inc.); (24) negligence-survival action (Parkhouse Tire, Inc.); (25) survival action (against all Defendants); (26) loss of consortium (against all Defendants). Pedro Chavarin filed a separate personal injury action on April 30, 2021, in Case No. 21STCV16419. This action and Chavarin’s action were related on August 11, 2022. Chavarin’s case is the lead case.On November 21, 2023, Defendant Pacific Maritime Association (“PMA”) filed the Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication currently before the Court. On January 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On April 17, 2024, Defendant PMA filed a reply.PMA filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication in the related action by Chavarin on identical grounds. The Court denied Pacific’s Motion for Summary Judgment and alternative request for Summary Adjudication.LEGAL AUTHORITYThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. AtlanticRichfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) The Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)As to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause and damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) A tort based onnegligence “involves a legal duty, whether by statute, contract, or otherwise[;] without such a duty, any injury is…an injury without a wrong.” (McGettigan v. Bay Area Rapid Transit Dist. (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1011, 1016.) A legal duty may be “an affirmative duty where the person occupies a particular relationship to others…[and] he may be liable for failure to act affirmatively to prevent harm.” (Id. at 1016-17.) In certain circumstances, a legal duty to plaintiff may arise when a defendant undertakes to render services to a third party. (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at 687.) Under this “negligent undertaking theory,” someone “who assumes to act, even though gratuitously, may thereby become subject to a duty of acting carefully, if at all.” (Artiglio v. Corning (1998) 18 Cal.4th 604, 613.) “If the defendant enters upon an affirmative course of conductaffecting the interests of another, he is regarded as assuming a duty to act, and will thereafter be liable for negligent acts or omissions.” (Id. (Citing Valdez v. Taylor Automobile Co. (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 810, 817.))To state a cause of action for liability under the negligent undertaking theory, a plaintiff must show: 1) the defendant undertook to render services to another; 2) those services were of a kind the defendant should have recognized as necessary for the protection of third parties; 3) thedefendant failed to exercise reasonable care in the performance of the undertaking; 4) the failureto exercise reasonable care resulted in physical harm to the third persons; and 5) either a) the defendant’s carelessness increased the risk of such harm; b) the undertaking was to perform aduty owed by the other to the third party; or c) the harm was suffered because of the reliance of the other or the third person upon the undertaking. (Id. at 614.) The question of whether a defendant’s actions constitute an undertaking sufficient to give rise to an actionable duty of care is a legal question. (Id. at 615.) “However,…there may be fact questions about precisely what it was that the defendant undertook to do…[t]hus, if the record can support competing inferences…an ultimate finding on the existence of a duty can not be made prior to a hearing on the merits, and summary judgment is precluded.” (Id.)EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSPMA asserts the same evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence as they did to the evidence submitted by plaintiffs in the Chavarin action.Sustained: 1,6,12,13,16,18,19,21,29,30,31Overruled: 2,3,4,5,7,8,9,10,11,13,14,17,20,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,32DISCUSSIONI. Parties’ PositionsPMA moves for summary judgment of the complaint or summary adjudication of the ninth, tenth, twenty-first and twenty-second causes of action. PMA argues each of these causes of action are premised on its alleged failure to train decedent on how to safely service split rim tires. PMA argues it did not owe decedent a duty to train him on how to safely service split rim tires.PMA argues the duty to train a mechanic on how to service a split rim tire is assigned by law to the mechanic’s employer, not Pacific. PMA maintains it is a non-profit mutual benefit corporation that serves as a multi-employer collective-bargaining agent, whose primary purpose isto negotiate, enter into, and administer, on behalf of its members, collective bargaining agreements. PMA argues that under California Code of Regulations, Title 8, §3326 and Code of Federal Regulations, Title 29, §1910.177, the employer “shall” provide training on split rim wheels.PMA argues there is also no duty train on the use of caging tires during dismounting. PMA argues the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 29, §1910.177 only requires caging during inflation of the tires. PMA argues decedent was not inflating the tire when it exploded. PMA argues there was therefore no duty to train them on caging the tires.PMA argues it also did not assume the duty to train decedent on how to service split rim wheels. PMA argues it was only obligated to provide general safety training classes to dockworkers pursuant to an agreement reached between employers and the Union.PMA argues its Mechanics Safety Series is not evidence of assumption of a duty to train mechanics like decedent. PMA argues these videos are not complete and have not been approved for release. PMA argues the segments regarding safe deflation of tires were also conceived and filmed after the subject accident. PMA argues these videos are also not intended to satisfy or substitute the employer’s duties to train.Finally, PMA argues it did not have a special relationship with decedent that would give rise to a duty to train on the servicing of split rim wheels and tires. PMA argues it was not decedent’s employer and id not control or supervise decedent’s work with Defendant Fenix.In opposition, Plaintiffs argue PMA fails to negate the existence of a duty to train. Plaintiffs argue 8 CCR §3326 and 29 CFR §1910.177 may impose a duty on employers to train, but nothing within those sections limits that duty to employers, nor does not preclude employers from contracting with third parties to fulfill their statutory duty to train. Plaintiffs’ experts testify that issuance of a citation to decedent’s employer under the OSHA laws does not preclude third parties from also being liable for decedent’s death based on failure to train. Plaintiffs argue there are triable issues of fact as to whether Defendant PMA is liable based on a theory of negligent undertaking.Plaintiff argues there is evidence that Defendant PMA undertook to train mechanics like decedent. Plaintiff argues PMA had an established practice of providing skilled training to specific categories of dock workers. Plaintiff argues there is a dispute as to whether Defendant PMA only provided general safety training. Plaintiff argues its expert, who is also a percipient witness who has had multiple interactions with PMA in the context of safety training, testifies that during his conversations with Pacific’s officers, PMA admitted that it was responsible for training new andexisting mechanics on the mounting and dismounting of tires, as well as other skills in their job category.Plaintiffs argue decedent’s employer, Fenix, also confirmed that PMA was responsible for providing skilled training to decedent. Plaintiffs rely on the testimony of Pacific’s employee and a letter drafted by him to OSHA indicating that PMA was responsible for providing skills training to mechanics.Plaintiffs argue there Luz Florentian Santoyo Castillo has a viable claim for loss of consortium. Plaintiffs argue Pacific’s only argument regarding her loss of consortium claim is based on the failure of Plaintiffs’ underlying negligence claims. Plaintiffs argue summary judgment and adjudication must be denied as to those negligence claims and the loss of consortium claims.On reply, PMA reiterates it was not responsible for training decedent on servicing split rim tires. PMA maintains it was Fenix who was responsible for training decedent on this matter based on 8 CCR §3326. PMA argues Fenix did not hire an outside vendor to fulfill its training duties until after the explosion and there is no evidence that Fenix contracted with Pacific. PMA argues the mistaken belief of one of its manager that PMA was responsible for such training does not raise a triable issue of fact.PMA argues that any promise by it to train would not have replaced Fenix’s duty to train. PMA argues there was a general mechanics training program contemplated when the accident occurred but is still in development. PMA argues that, regardless, Fenix still had its own obligation to train.PMA argues statements made to Plaintiff’s expert are inadmissible hearsay. PMA argues there is simply no basis to impose a duty to train decedent on split rim tires.PMA argues the loss of consortium claim is dependent on and fails with their claims of negligence.II. PMA’s motion is DENIED.With the exception of Pacific’s arguments regarding caging, Pacific’s motion is identical to its motion for summary judgment or adjudication filed in the Chavarin action. For the reasons stated in the Court’s order issued in the Chavarin action, Pacific’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED.A. Ninth, Tenth, Twenty-First and Twenty-Second Causes of Action for NegligenceThe court finds PMA has met its initial burden of proof that there is no genuine issue of material fact as to whether it had duty to train Plaintiff Pedro Chavarin. PMA proffered the declarations of William Bartelson, Curtis Shaw, and Petra M. Reinecke with supporting exhibits attached. Mr. Bartelson is the Vice President of Contract Administration and Arbitration at PMA Maritime Association and submitted the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Pacific Maritime Association dated March 6, 2019 attached as Exhibit A, which demonstrates PMA’s primary purpose is to oversee negotiation of contracts with International Longshore and Warehouse Unionon behalf of its member companies. Mr. Bartelson’s declaration further indicates each membercompany makes its own decisions as assigning jobs to dockworkers, which clients to serve,which ports to operate, how to direct its workforce, and how many and the type of longshoreworkers to hire. Moreover, Mr. Shaw is the Associate Coast Director of Accident Prevention andTraining Strategy for PMA and his declaration suggests the General Safety Training programadministered by PMA does not include specific or specialized training for mechanics, how toservice split rim wheels and tires, and how to safely change a tire on a top handler. Finally, Ms.Reinecke is PMA ‘s counsel of record and submitted excerpts from the deposition transcript ofJeffrey Brown, who is Fenix Marine Services Senior Safety Manager of Health, Safety, Security& Environment. The deposition excerpts of Mr. Brown showcase that Fenix Marine Services didnot expect PMA to provide training to their mechanics on servicing split rim wheels and tiresbecause its General Safety Training program never provided that before. It also indicates FenixMarine Services was required to have safety training program for its mechanics.The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts do exist as to whether PMA had a duty to train decedent. The court finds that there is sufficient evidence to show that PMA, from at least 1999, has had a pattern and practice of implementing skills for training for specific categories of dock workers. Plaintiff’s evidence further suggests PMA was requested, and agreed, to provide specific skills training for maintenance and repair (“M&R”) work under the terms of a 2009 contract and reaffirmed their obligation to undertake M&R training in 2014. Thus, Plaintiffs have shown beyond mere speculation that a genuine issue of material facts exists as to whether PMA undertook an obligation to provide M&R training to members of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union. In addition, because decedent conducted M&R on a dual-mount Top Handler equipped with split rim wheels and that equipment was in service at a terminal governed by contracts for which PMA had agreed to provide M&R training, it is reasonableto infer that, had PMA actually provided such training, it would have included training on safely mounting and dismounting tires on split rim wheels. Because there remains a question of fact as to what precisely it was that PMA undertook to do, it appears “an ultimate finding on the existence of a duty cannot be made prior to a hearing on the merits.” (See Artiglo v. Corning Inc., supra, 18 Cal.4th at 615.)In addition to the argument PMA raised in its Motion for Summary Judgment in the Chavarin case, PMA argues it did not have a duty to train on the use of caging during deflation of tires, which was what Chavarin and Santoyo were doing when the explosion occurred. PMA argues 29 CFR §1910.177 and 8 CFR §3326 require caging during inflation. However, PMA fails to point to any language in either regulation indicating that caging should not be used during deflation or that caging should only be used during inflation. The cited portions of both regulations state that caging shall be used during inflation and do not reference deflation or caging during deflation. There remain triable issues of fact as to what exactly PMA undertook and what reasonable care would have required in exercise of that duty, including whether decedent should have been trained on use of a cage during deflation.B. Twenty-second cause of actionTo state a claim for loss of consortium, plaintiff must prove: “(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff's spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately caused by the defendant's act.” (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275, 284.)PMA’s motion is denied as to the twenty-second cause of action for loss of consortium for the same reasons stated above. PMA argues the loss of consortium claim fails because the underlying negligence claims against it fail. As discussed above, the motion for summary judgment is denied as to the negligence claims.Defendant Pacific Maritime Associations’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication filed on 11/21/2023 is DENIED.Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of ruling.