 Case Number:  20STCV10986    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 6/10/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV10986 RADFORD EUGENE
SPENCER vs HENSEL PHELPS CONSTRUCTION
Moving Party: Defendant HENSEL PHELPS
CONSTRUCTION
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS DENIED.
 
On March 18, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present construction accident case. On May 27, 2020,
Defendant Hensel Phelps Construction Co. filed its answer. The trial has been
continued numerous times, with the current trial date set for August 1, 2024.
Defendant seeks a continuance to January 13, 2025, due to Plaintiff’s recent
flare-up and reopening of a workers’ compensation claim.
Defendants filed their
answer over four years ago. The parties have been engaged in discovery for more
than four years. This extensive period has provided ample opportunity for both
Plaintiff and Defendant to gather all necessary information, assess damages,
and prepare their respective cases thoroughly. The claim that additional time
is needed to evaluate new developments related to a flare-up does not
convincingly justify further delay. Discovery has been ongoing long enough to reasonably
uncover any and all relevant facts that would impact the determination of
damages, future treatment, prognosis, or any other aspect of the case.
Furthermore, given the nature of Plaintiff's injuries, which inherently include
the likelihood of flare-ups and the need for ongoing medical attention possibly
extending over a decade, a complete and final assessment of damages may never
be fully realized. The Court finds that the four years allotted for discovery
have allowed for a sufficiently thorough assessment of damages. Thus, the
present motion is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 