 Case Number:  22STCV28139    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿¿ ¿¿ MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL¿ Hearing Date: 6/10/24¿¿¿ CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV28139 HECTOR HIPOLITO vs M2 CONCRETE PUMPING, LLC¿ Moving Party: Non-Party Everest National Insurance¿ Responding Party: CATALINA PACIFIC CONCRETE COMPANY¿ Notice: Sufficient¿¿¿ Ruling: MOTION IS CONTINUED¿ ¿ Plaintiff Hector Hipolito filed the present case, 22STCV28139, alleging injuries from a concrete mixer accident against Defendants M2 Concrete Pumping and Catalina Pacific Concrete Company. In a related action, 22STCV29697, Everest National Insurance Company filed a worker’s compensation subrogation claim against the same Defendants for workers compensation benefits it paid to Hipolito. On March 11, 2024, the Court dismissed the related case without prejudice when Everest's counsel did not appear for trial. On May 31, 2024, Everest filed a motion to set aside dismissal in the related case for a hearing date set for July 16, 2024. Everest also moves the Court for intervention in the present case.  The workers’ compensation statutes provide three alternative avenues for the recovery of benefits. A carrier may choose to “(1) intervene in an injured worker's action, (2) file an independent action, or (3) assert a lien in an injured worker's action.” (Fremont Comp. Ins. Co. v. Sierra Pine, (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 389, 396.) This ensures the employee does not receive a double recovery, the third party does not have to defend two lawsuits, and compensation insurance rates are minimized. (Id.)   The present case might be distinguishable from Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Frank (1996) 42 Cal. App. 4th 457 and Bishop v. Silva (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1317, where motions to intervene were denied due to the insurance carrier's failure to prosecute and failure to serve within the three-year deadline. In Fairmont Ins. and Bishop, the courts held that the carrier should not be granted the opportunity to intervene when they had not diligently pursued their independent subrogation actions. Here, the related subrogation action was dismissed in March 2024, and Everest contends that the dismissal without prejudice was not due to counsel’s lack of diligence in pursuing the case, but rather due to calendaring or technical errors that prevented counsel from appearing at trial. A motion to set aside the dismissal in the related case has been filed. The decision to grant or deny the present motion to intervene will likely hinge on the circumstances surrounding the dismissal of the related action.  The Court continues the present motion for intervention until the circumstances surrounding the dismissal of the related action are fully briefed in the motion to set aside the dismissal in the related case. Furthermore, if the Court grants the motion to set aside, the present motion will become moot, as the carrier cannot maintain its independent action and intervene at the same time. (Fremont Comp. Ins. Co. v. Sierra Pine, (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 389, 396.)  The Court continues the present motion to July 23, 2024, after the Court hears Everest’s motion to set aside dismissal in 22STCV29697, the related case.¿  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES¿¿ Moving Party: CATALINA PACIFIC CONCRETE COMPANY Responding Party: Non-Party Everest National Insurance¿ ruling: MOTION IS CONTINUED¿  The motion to compel further concerns Everest's responses to Catalina Pacific’s request for production. Everest is currently not a party in 22STCV28139, and 22STCV29697 has already been dismissed without prejudice. The discovery device of requests for production is reserved for parties to the action, and currently, Everest is not a party to either action. The status of Everest will likely be determined by the outcome of Everest's motion to set aside dismissal in the related case. The Court continues the present motion to July 23, 2024, after hearing Everest’s motion to set aside dismissal in the related action and motion to intervene in the present action.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  