  Case Number:  23AHCV00916    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



IVY ZIHAN GENG, an individual, 
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
WANSONG
  HOU, a.k.a. ELLA WANSONG HOU, a.k.a. ELLA TSAI, a.k.a. ELLA WANSONG TSAI, an
  individual; and DOES 1-25,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV00916
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO DISMISS
 
Date:   March
  7, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          In this defamation action, Plaintiff
Ivy Zihan Geng (Geng) alleges that Defendant Wansong Hou aka Ella Wansong Hou
aka Ella Tsai (Tsai) started spreading damaging rumors about Geng’s sex life.
Around June and July of 2022, Geng alleges that Hou published these rumors by
phone and through WeChat to Geng’s family, friends and friends’ companies in
China. She alleges she suffered injuries to her personal reputation and
business as a result of these statements. The Complaint contains causes of
action for: (1) libel per se, (2) slander per se, (3) false light, (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) injunctive relief and (6) declaratory
relief.
          Before the Court is Defendant Ella Tsai’s motion to
dismiss, filed January 29, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on February 23,
2024.
          Defendant urges that the case against her should be
dismissed, as the statements on which this action was founded were allegedly not
made in LA County. However, as Defendant has already made a general appearance
in the case, she has consented to the jurisdiction of this court. Therefore,
her motion to dismiss is DENIED.
 
II.       DISCUSSION
          On January 29, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to dismiss
using a judicial council form. (1/29/24 Motion to Dismiss.) Defendant, who
is apparently a resident of San Bernadino County, states that the defamatory
statements alleged in the Complaint were not made in Los Angeles County.
 On page 2 of the form, Defendant checked the boxes to indicate that
dismissal is required under Code of Civil Procedure sections 393 and 395.
(Motion p. 2.)
Section
393 applies to actions for the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute and actions against a public officer or person especially appointed to
execute the duties of a public officer. (CCP § 393.) It does not apply here.
Section
395, subdivision (a) does provide that “the superior court in the county where
the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action.”  (CCP § 395(a).) However, under
Code of Civil Procedure section 396b, subdivision (a), if an action is filed in
a court other than the court designated as the proper court, the defendant
seeking transfer to a proper court must file a motion at the time she answers,
demurs, or moves to strike. (CCP § 396b(a).)
On
June 5, 2023, Defendant filed a general denial. Defendant did not move to
transfer or dismiss this action at that time. On November 22, 2023,
Defendant filed a Case Management Statement and requested a jury trial. Trial
was then set in this case. Defendant then appeared at the hearing on December 11,
2023 on Plaintiff’s motions to compel discovery. A defendant makes a general
appearance by participating in an action “in some manner which recognizes the
authority of the court to proceed.”  (Mt. Holyoke Homes, LP v.
California Costal Com. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 830, 844.) 
Defendant
made a general appearance by filing the answer and Case Management Statement,
as well as appearing at the hearing on discovery, and thus has consented to
this Court’s jurisdiction. (See Opposition p. 3: 17-21.)
Therefore,
the motion to dismiss is DENIED.
 
III.     CONCLUSION
          Motion to dismiss is DENIED. 
          Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to give notice.
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 