 Case Number:  21STCV38459    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         March 8, 2024Case Name:                             AMAG, Inc., v. Marc Anthony Cubas, et al.Case No.:                                21STCV38459Motion:                                  Motion to QuashMoving Party:                         Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anastasiia ArsenevaResponding Party:                  Cross-Defendant Omar ZambranoNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                    The Motion to Quash is GRANTED. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anastasiia Arseneva to give notice.   BACKGROUND            This case stems from a loan agreement entered into by AMAG (Plaintiff) and Vlaze Media Networks (Vlaze), where Plaintiff alleges that after loaning Vlaze $2,900,000.00, Vlaze failed to pay back the loan amount. Plaintiff then filed a Complaint on February 22, 2022, followed by a First Amended Complaint on March 6, 2023 alleging five causes of action: (1) fraudulent conversion, (2) misrepresentation, (3) constructive fraud, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) declaratory relief. In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges a wide-ranging fraud operation. On May 1, 2023, one of the defendants, Anastasiia Arseneva (Defendant/Cross-Complainant or Arseneva) filed a Second-Amended Cross Complaint for: (1) breach of contract, (2) quantum meruit, (3) violation of PEN §§ 529 and 528.5, and (4) declaratory relief.            The Motion before the Court is between two defendants, Arseneva and Omar Zambrano (Zambrano). Arseneva files a Motion to Quash (Motion) a subpoena served by Zambrano on AT & T Wireless for Arseneva’s phone records. Zambrano files opposition papers, which allege that Arseneva participated in a burglary of Zambrano’s law offices. Arseneva files a reply.       DISCUSSIONApplicable Law            The governing rule here is CCP § 1985.3(f): “A subpoena duces tecum for personal records maintained by a telephone corporation which is a public utility, as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities Code, shall not be valid or effective unless it includes a consent to release, signed by the consumer whose records are requested, as required by Section 2891 of the Public Utilities Code.”Application to Facts            Arseneva argues that the subpoena is defective upon two grounds: (1) the subpoena lacks the consumer’s consent as demanded by CCP § 1985.3(f) and was not served with 10-days notice to the consumer before serving the public utility as demanded by CCP § 1985(b)(2) and (2) privacy grounds. The Court agrees with the first reason, disagrees with the second reason and will quash the subpoena.            Privacy Concerns            The Court will address the privacy concerns first. A court must balance the need for discovery with the right of privacy. Our state Supreme Court created a three-step test for just such an occasion. “The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552, citing Hill.) “The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Id.)              Here, Arseneva has asserted a legally protected privacy interest in her phone records, which case law supports. (See generally Carpenter v. U.S. (2018) 138 S.Ct. 2206 and Riley v. California (2014) 573 U.S. 373.) The same case law demonstrates an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances and that the threatened intrusion – here revealing the phone records – is serious. However, Defendant may raise any countervailing interests disclosure serves, and has done so. The right to discovery is paramount to parties being able to prepare cases adequately. Zambrano has alleged that Arseneva was involved in a burglary of Zambrano’s law office and argues that Arseneva’s phone records could lead to admissible evidence regarding the burglary. Moreover, the request only requests phone records from February 20, 2022 through March 5, 2022, which is narrowed to the two weeks surrounding the suspected burglary, which is alleged to have occurred on February 27, 2022. Arseneva contends that the information within the phone records for this two-week period “would cause unjustified embarrassment and indignity” and possibly the release of attorney-client information, and work product information and confidential information.” The Court finds these contentions meritless. The two-week window is sufficiently narrowed such that the Court is satisfied that any impact as far as “embarrassment and indignity” is appropriately mitigated given the allegations. Moreover, communications regarding any attorney-client relationship that was occurring at that time could be redacted, so too could any work product produced by an attorney that may be on her phone during that time window.             CCP § 1985.3(f)            However, the lack of the consumer’s consent pursuant to CCP § 1985.3(f) is fatal to the subpoena. Zambrano’s proper course of action would be to request an order from the Court compelling Arseneva’s consent if Arseneva refuses to provide it, then reserving the subpoena in compliance with the prescribed notice requirements articulated in CCP § 1985(b)(2).            CONCLUSIONDefendant/Cross-Complainant Anastasiia Arseneva’s Motion to Quash is GRANTED.            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anastasiia Arseneva to give notice.           