 Case Number:  23STCV20104    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV20104




MOTION 


Motions to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Deep Green Housing and Community Development,
  Inc. and Central Village Apartments, L.P.




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Shelbie Sanders, Shaina Sanders Shepard, Ronald Eugene Scott, and Regina Louise
Hill (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Deep Green Housing and Community
Development, Inc. (“Deep Green”) and Central Village Apartments, L.P. (“Central
Village,” collectively, “Defendants”) for habitability violations.  Plaintiffs took Defendants’ defaults, and the
Court entered default judgment against Defendants.  Defendants move to set aside the default and
default judgment. 
            Plaintiffs
have not filed an opposition to the motion.
ANALYSIS
To the extent Defendants seek relief under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), the motion is untimely
with respect to the entry of default. The Court entered default against
Defendants on November 16, 2023, and default judgment against Defendants on January
16, 2024.  Defendants did not file this
motion until July 11, 2024.  The Court,
therefore, cannot set aside the default, as Defendants filed this motion more
than six months after entry of default.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Pulte Homes Corp. v. Williams Mechanical, Inc.
(2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, 273.) However, Defendant’s motion for relief from
default judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) is
timely.  The Court, therefore, considers
the motion as a motion to set aside the default judgment only.  
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).) 
Defendants rely on the declaration of Adrian
Imonti (“Imonti”), who is the Deep Green’s Executive Director.  (Declaration of Adrian Imonti, ¶ 1.)  Deep Green is the managing general partner of
Central Village.  (Ibid.)   Imonti states he received the complaint in
October 2023, contacted Deep Green’s insurance broker, David Sheinin
(“Sheinin”), and asked Sheinin to tender the defense to Deep Green’s insurer,
Atlantic Casualty.  (Id., ¶¶ 4,6.)  Imonti, therefore ,believed Atlantic Casualty
was handling the defense of this action. 
(Id., ¶¶ 7, 11.)   Imonti received
no other correspondence regarding this case until he received a copy of the
abstract of judgment in May 2024.  (Id.,
¶¶ 9, 12.)  
David Sheinin corroborated Imonti’s statements
in a declaration he provided.  Sheinin
added Atlantic Casualty had declined coverage of the matter, sent a declination
letter to Deep Green, but the letter was returned to Atlantic Casualty having
been deemed undeliverable, and Atlantic Casualty took no further steps to inform
Deep Green of the declination.  (Declaration
of David Sheinin, ¶ 4.)  Defendants then filed
this motion to set aside the default and default judgment on July 11, 2024.
Defendants have provided evidence Plaintiffs
obtained a default judgment against Defendants due to Imonti’s mistake.  Therefore, the motion to set aside the default
judgment is granted.  (See Rogalski v.
Nabers Cadillac (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 816, 821 [defendant’s excusable
neglect was grounds for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) when defendant’s liability insurer failed to notify defendant
it had denied coverage].)  Defendants,
however, remain in default.  
This order is without prejudice to
Defendants’ ability to bring a motion to vacate the default and default
judgment on grounds other than Code of Civil Procedure, section 473,
subdivision (b).
Defendants are to give notice of this order and to file proof of service
of same.