 Case Number:  22STCV31557    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV31557




MOTION:  


Motion to Deem Admitted




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant AYS Hospitality, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTION
            Defendant
AYS Hospitality, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to deem admitted matters specified in
Requests for Admissions, set one (“RPD”), which Defendant served on Plaintiff
Pedro de la Cruz Ramirez (“Plaintiff”). And his counsel 
ANALYSIS
When a party fails
to respond to requests for admissions, the propounding party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).)  The Court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted the matters specified in the requests for
admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission
have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).)  
Defendant served
the RFA on Plaintiff by mail and electronically on February 16, 2024.  As of the filing date of this motion,
Plaintiff has not responded to the RFA. 
Accordingly, the motion is granted. 
Plaintiff is deemed to have admitted the matters specified in the
RFA.  
Defendant seeks
sanctions in connection with the motion. 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s failure to respond to the RFA an abuse of
the discovery process and awards sanctions. The Court imposes sanctions against
Plaintiff in the amount of $840, which represents three hours for Defendant to
prepare the motion and for its counsel attend the hearing at $260 per hour,
plus the motion’s filing fee.  Plaintiff
is to pay sanctions in the amount of $840 to Defendant, by and through counsel,
within 30 days.
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 