 Case Number:  22STCV07354    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV07354




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Ricky Montes



  
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Rick
Montes (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company (“Defendant”) for disability discrimination, contending Defendant did
not accommodate his disability. 
Defendant moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative first
amended complaint, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the causes
of action therein.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
In its order of
February 20, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the second and third causes of action and the sixth cause of
action to the extent it relied on a theory of harassment, and the Court granted
Plaintiff’s request to dismiss the eighth cause of action.  The Court continued the motion with respect
to the remaining causes of action and ordered the parties to file supplemental
briefing, which the Court now considers. 
(See February 20, 2024 Minute Order.)
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 EVIDENCE
            Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence are overruled.  The objections go to the weight, not the
admissibility, of Plaintiff’s evidence.
DISCUSSION
First, Fourth, and Fifth Causes
of Action for Disability Discrimination       
Plaintiff asserts
causes of action for discrimination under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA).  To state a claim for discrimination under
FEHA, the employee must demonstrate “(1) the employee's membership in a
classification protected by the statute; (2) discriminatory animus on the part
of the employer toward members of that classification; (3) an action by the
employer adverse to the employee's interests; (4) a causal link between the
discriminatory animus and the adverse action; (5) damage to the employee; and
(6) a causal link between the adverse action and the damage.”  (Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  “A
defending employer seeking summary judgment in a discrimination case may meet
its burden by showing that one or more of these prima facie elements is
lacking, or that the adverse employment action was based on legitimate
nondiscriminatory factors.  [¶]  If the employer has met its burden by showing
a legitimate reason for its conduct, the employee must demonstrate a triable
issue by producing substantial evidence that the employer's stated reasons were
untrue or pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus,
such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged in
intentional discrimination or other unlawful action.”  (Cucuzza v. City of Santa Clara (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038, internal citation omitted.)  An employer is likewise not liable for
discrimination “if the employer proves it would have fired the employee anyway
for lawful reasons.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 234.)
Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action is for failure to provide reasonable accommodations. As
Plaintiff’s employer, Defendant had to reasonably accommodate any of
Plaintiff’s known disabilities to enable Plaintiff to perform the essential
functions of Plaintiff’s job, unless doing so would produce undue hardship to
Defendant’s operations. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m); 2 Cal. Code Regs., §
11068, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action is for failure to engage in a good faith interactive process.
An employer must engage in a “timely, good faith interactive process . . . in
response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant
with a known physical or mental disability or known medical condition.” (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (n); see 2 Cal. Code Regs, tit. 2, § 11069, subd. (a).)
Defendant asserts Plaintiff
indicated at his deposition he never informed Defendant when he could return to
work.  (Declaration of Jennifer A.
Goldberg, Exhibit A, pp. 50, 139.)  Plaintiff
also testified his supervisor, Nicole Barker (“Barker”), told him on the day
Plaintiff first sought treatment for his injury that his work was
unacceptable.  (Goldberg Decl., Exhibit
A, p. 261.)  
Defendant also
advances Barker’s deposition testimony, wherein she testified when Plaintiff
initially requested time off, Baker denied the request because she did not know
Plaintiff was experiencing medical issues (Goldberg Decl., Exhibit B, pp.
15-17); after Plaintiff went on leave for his medical issues, Plaintiff never
requested any accommodations that could enable him to return to work (id.,
Exhibit B, p. 73);  if Plaintiff could
not sit, stand, or drive for more than four to six hours per day, he could not
meet the essential functions of his job (id., Exhibit B, p. 168); and Defendant
terminated Plaintiff’s employment because Plaintiff would not provide Defendant
with any accommodation request beyond an indefinite request for leave (id.,
Exhibit B, p. 186.)  
Defendant also supports
its contentions with deposition testimony from Baker’s supervisor, John Hubert
(“Hubert”), who testified Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment because
Plaintiff was not meeting job expectations, he did not return to work, and he
did not indicate when he could return to work. 
(Goldberg Decl., Exhibit C, pp. 71-72.) 
Hubert further testified Plaintiff could not perform the essential
functions of his job with the limitations he had.  (Id., Exhibit C, p. 109.)  
Defendant fails to
meet its burden of showing Defendant did not discriminate against Plaintiff
because of Plaintiff’s disability and that Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s
employment for a legitimate reason.  Because
Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s disability, Defendant had the obligation to
propose accommodations for it, even if Plaintiff did not request any
accommodations.  (See Prilliman v.
United Air Lines, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 935, 949-950.)  Defendant fails to advance any evidence to
show it proposed accommodations to Plaintiff prior to terminating his
employment.  While Defendant argues it
was Defendant’s policy to receive proposed accommodations from its employees,
Defendant cites no authority for the proposition that its policies altered its
obligations under law.  
Furthermore, in opposition,
Plaintiff advances evidence that, as of June 23, 2021, an orthopedic surgeon
evaluated Plaintiff and stated he could return to work with restrictions only
on heavy lifting, pushing, and pulling, as well as forward bending, stooping,
twisting, squatting, or turning. 
(Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence (Compendium), Exhibit 9, Exhibit 96,
pp. 48-49, Exhibit 104, p. 49.)  While
Defendant argues in reply Defendant was unaware of this evaluation when it
terminated Plaintiff’s employment on that date, the evaluation is, nonetheless,
relevant.  Had Defendant proposed
accommodations to Plaintiff to facilitate Plaintiff’s return to work, Defendant
may have been aware of this evaluation prior to Plaintiff’s termination.  
Plaintiff also provided
evidence Defendant encouraged employees to work remotely during the COVID-19
pandemic and, therefore, remote work could have been an accommodation afforded
to Plaintiff, given his disability.  (Compendium,
Exhibits 11-13.)  Plaintiff also offers
communications which reflect Defendant’s position Plaintiff faked his injury
because of a poor performance review. 
(Compendium, Exhibits 15-16.)  Even
if Defendant had satisfied its burden of showing Plaintiff could not prevail on
his claims for disability discrimination, Defendant’s failure to provide Plaintiff
with reasonable accommodations for his disability and failure to engage in a
good faith interactive process, have raised triable issues of material fact
requiring this Court to deny Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
Sixth Cause of Action: Failure
to Prevent Discrimination 
Plaintiff’s claim
for failure to prevent discrimination is derivative of his general claims for
discrimination. Where triable issues of material fact exist as to
discrimination that preclude summary adjudication, those issues likewise
preclude summary adjudication on claims for failure to prevent discrimination.  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  As set forth
above, triable issues of material fact exist as to whether Defendant
discriminated against Plaintiff.
Seventh Cause of Action: Retaliation
To prevail on a
claim for retaliation, Plaintiff must establish “by a preponderance of the
evidence, that retaliation for an employee's protected activities was a
contributing factor in a contested employment action. . . . Once the plaintiff
has made the required showing, the burden shifts to the employer to
demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would have taken the
action in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff
not engaged in protected activity.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)
As set forth above, Defendant fails
to meet its burden of showing Defendant terminated Plaintiff for a legitimate
reason and did not terminate Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s disability.  As such, triable issues of material fact
exist as to whether Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff because of
Plaintiff’s disability.  
Ninth Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination
in Violation of Public Policy
California law
provides “a tort remedy when an employer's discharge of an employee contravenes
the dictates of public policy.” (Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980)
27 Cal.3d 167, 177.)  As set forth above,
Defendant fails to meet its burden of showing it terminated Plaintiff for a
legitimate reason and not because of his disability.  As such, Defendant fails to satisfy its
burden of demonstrating Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy.
Punitive Damages
Defendant also
moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.  As Plaintiff advances evidence Defendant
“concoct[ed] a reason for termination” after terminating Plaintiff based on his
medical condition, Plaintiff has raised triable issues as to her claim for
punitive damages.  (Colucci v.
T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455.)  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
of the remaining issues is denied.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.