  Case Number:  20STCV08423    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Wednesday, June 12, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 14
 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Maria
Luz Nieves, et al. v. Kevin George Aziz Riad, et al.  
20STCV08423
1.      Tesla, Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order to Prevent
the Deposition of Robert Sumwalt         
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             Tesla, Inc.’s Motion for Protective
Order to Prevent the Deposition of Robert Sumwalt is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on February 28, 2020.
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint was filed on June 11, 2020. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent was killed in automobile
accident. Defendants were operating a 2016 Tesla Model S which purportedly
suffered from defects. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1)
Wrongful Death-General Negligence 2) Wrongful Death-Negligent Hiring, Training,
and Supervision 3) Negligent Entrustment of Motor Vehicle 4) Products
Liability-Negligence 5) Products Liability- Design Defect 6) Products
Liability- Manufacturing Defect 7) Products Liability- Failure to Warn 8)
Negligence- Manufacturer or Supplier-Duty to Warn 9) Negligence- Recall/Retrofit.

 
Motion for
Protective Order  
 
The Court is authorized to
limit discovery through a protective order. 
The order may be granted on the motion of any party or other person
affected by the discovery sought.  CCP §§
2017.020(a), 2019.020(b), 2019.030(a).  A
protective order may be obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any
discovery method on any of the following grounds:  (1) 
“The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative …;  (2) 
“(The information) is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome or less expensive; 
(3)  “The selected method of
discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of
the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake
in the litigation.”  CCP §
2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420
states:
“(a) Before, during, or
after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order
may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
(1) That the deposition not
be taken at all.
(2) That the deposition be
taken at a different time.
(3) That a video recording
of the deposition testimony of a treating or consulting physician or of any
expert witness, intended for possible use at trial under subdivision (d) of
Section 2025.620, be postponed until the moving party has had an adequate opportunity
to prepare, by discovery deposition of the deponent, or other means, for
cross-examination.
(4) That the deposition be
taken at a place other than that specified in the deposition notice, if it is
within a distance permitted by Sections 2025.250 and 2025.260.
(5) That the deposition be
taken only on certain specified terms and conditions.
(6) That the deponent's
testimony be taken by written, instead of oral, examination.
(7) That the method of
discovery be interrogatories to a party instead of an oral deposition.
(8) That the testimony be
recorded in a manner different from that specified in the deposition notice.
(9) That certain matters
not be inquired into.
(10) That the scope of the
examination be limited to certain matters.
(11) That all or certain of
the writings or tangible things designated in the deposition notice not be
produced, inspected, copied, tested, or sampled, or that conditions be set for
the production of electronically stored information designated in the deposition
notice.
(12) That designated
persons, other than the parties to the action and their officers and counsel,
be excluded from attending the deposition.
(13) That a trade secret or
other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be
disclosed or be disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified way.
(14) That the parties
simultaneously file specified documents enclosed in sealed envelopes to be
opened as directed by the court.
(15) That the deposition be
sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court.
(16) That examination of
the deponent be terminated. If an order terminates the examination, the
deposition shall not thereafter be resumed, except on order of the court.”
 
Meet and
Confer
 
Defendant set forth a meet
and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2025.420(a).  (Declaration, Ian G. Schuler, ¶ 5.)
 
Motion for
Protective Order
 
Defendant moves for a
protective order to prevent the deposition of Robert Sumwalt, the former chair
of the National Transportation Safety Board (“NTSB”), pursuant to CCP § 2025.420(a)
and (b). Defendant moves on the grounds that there is good cause to grant the
protective order because under 49 CFR Part 835 a current or former board member
such as Sumwalt may testify in his official capacity arising out of or related
to a NTSB accident investigation.  However,
here, there is no evidence that the NTSB ever investigated the subject incident.
 Thus, Sumwalt cannot testify in his
capacity as the former chair of the NTSB.  
 
Defendant’s motion for
protective order is granted.  Defendant
establishes good cause for the granting of the protective order because Robert
Sumwalt is unable to testify in his official capacity as no NTSB investigation
exists.  Plaintiffs filed no written
opposition to this motion.
 
Thus, Defendant’s Motion
for Protective Order to Prevent the Deposition of Robert Sumwalt is granted
pursuant to CCP § 2025.420(a) and (b).  Plaintiffs
are prevented from taking the deposition of Robert Sumwalt in this action.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 