 Case Number:  20STCV06049    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV06049




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Attorney Fees and Costs




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants CalPortland Company, CalPortland
  Construction, and Homer Phillip Banks, Jr.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Guadalupe Del Carmen Andrade and Maria Andrade 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs Guadalupe Del Carmen
Andrade and Maria Andrade (“Plaintiffs”) motion to withdraw admissions deemed
admitted. (Min. Order, 10/23/23.) However, the Court also noted the following:
Plaintiffs filed their complaint in February of 2020 and the answer was filed
in June of 2021. Defendants CalPortland Company, CalPortland Construction, and
Homer Phillip Banks, Jr. (“Defendants”) motion to deem admitted was granted in
November 2021. In April 2022, Plaintiffs’ counsel received notice of
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment based on the admissions. 
 
However, Plaintiffs did not take action to withdraw the admissions
until a year later, in April 2023. “In the meantime, without participation of
Plaintiffs in the normal course of litigation (despite many repeated efforts to
reach out to Plaintiffs’ counsel), Defendants were forced to seek court
intervention, waiting for hearing dates to become available, and responding to
deficient and belated efforts by Plaintiffs. The Court agrees with Defendants
that the costs of now having to essentially start the case over, more than
three and a half years after the complaint was filed, should be borne by
Plaintiffs.” (Min. Order, 10/23/23.) 
 
The Court then ordered, as a condition to granting Plaintiffs’ motion
to withdraw the admissions:
 
“Plaintiffs and their counsel, jointly and severally, are ordered to
pay all Defendant’s fees and costs for all additional discovery related to the
matters in the withdrawn admissions. Plaintiffs and their counsel are further
ordered to pay all Defendant’s fees and costs associated with the motion for
summary judgment. Defendant shall file a motion for fees and costs at the
appropriate time.”
 
(Min.
Order, 10/23/23.) 
 
            Defendants now move, pursuant to
that order, for attorney fees and costs associated with their motion for
summary judgment, in the amount of $12,579.75. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants
reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300, the court may permit
withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.300(b).) 
 
“The
court may impose conditions on the granting of the motion that are just,
including, but not limited to, the following:
 
(1)
An order that the party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue
additional discovery related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended
admission.
(2)
An order that the costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in
part by the party withdrawing or amending the admission.”
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.300(c).) 
 
“[S]ection 2033.300 does not limit a court's discretion to those
conditions set forth in subdivision (c)(1) and (2). Rather, by its express
terms, section 2033.300 gives a court discretion to impose ‘just’ conditions
that are ‘not limited to’ those specified in the statute. [citation.] An award
of attorney fees that is reasonable in light of the conditional relief granted
can accordingly be such a condition.” (Rhule v. WaveFront Technology,
Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1223, 1228.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants contend that the total attorney fees expended in relation
to their motion for summary judgment was $12,066.00 based on an hourly rate of
$225. The total costs were $513.75. Defendants’ counsel produces a declaration,
under penalty of perjury, itemizing the fees and costs requested. (Watts Decl.
¶ 15.) 
 
Plaintiffs oppose for various reasons.[1]
First, they argue the fees and costs for Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is a “windfall” and does not conform with the intent of section
2033.300. However, the law cited by Plaintiffs in Wilcox
v. Birtwhistle (1999)
21 Cal.4th 973, 982–83, describes a “windfall” where the court allows
admissions to remain. (Opp., 5.) Here, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion to
withdraw the admissions, in order to allow the merits of the case to be
decided. However, given the evidence presented, the Court conditioned relief on
the payment of attorneys’ fees and costs.
 
Plaintiffs argue the
Court’s order is used as a punishment, and therefore improper. However, the
Court did not invoke any discovery sanction statute when making its order. The
basis for the condition stems from section 2033.300, which allows the court to
award attorney fees as a condition of relief. (Rhule v. WaveFront
Technology, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1228.) The Court’s condition
was not to punish Plaintiffs but as a fair condition in light of granting
Plaintiffs’ motion to withdraw the admissions. 
 
Next, Plaintiffs appear to
argue the condition is improper because Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
was never decided on the merits. However, no authority is cited in support of
this argument. Lastly, Plaintiffs briefly mention that, alternatively, attorney
fees should be limited to two hours due to the simplistic nature of the summary
judgment motion. However, the amount requested is set forth in a declaration
under penalty of perjury. The Court finds the amount requested to be
reasonable. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendants’ motion for Attorney Fees and Costs is GRANTED. Plaintiffs
and their counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay
$12,579.75 to counsel for Defendants within 30 days.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


