 Case Number:  22STCV01357    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV01357




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Angelica Alvarez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
by Petitioner Angelica Alvarez (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Juan Marchan,
Jr. The Court denies the petitions
without prejudice. 
 
On September 13, 2023, the Court granted an ex parte
application sealing portions of Claimant’s Petition to Approve Minor’s
Compromise. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(3), describing the
effect of Petitioner’s claim on Claimant’s proposed compromise. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(6).
 
The value in item 12a(4) must match the value in item
16b. 
 
The value in item 13a must match the value in item and 16c.
 
Item 14a of the Petition does not
conform with 8a(2) on MC-351. It is unclear if reimbursement is requested, and
by whom. 
 
The attorney declaration in attachment 13a must discuss
in more detail, the factors in California Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b). 
 
The proposed order does not attach Attachment 8b(2).
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
     