 Case Number:  23VECV03506    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  T [TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendant Jechonias Williams’ Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant
Jechonias Williams’ Motion to Strike the First Amended Complaint is DENIED.
            Defendant Jechonias Williams is
ORDERED to file an Answer to the First Amended Complaint within 5 calendar days.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1167.3, Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1320(g).)
Introduction

            Defendant
Jechonias Williams (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Elshir Enterprises, LP’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC) for Unlawful Detainer (UD.)  Elshir Enterprises, LP is now named as
plaintiff in the FAC, replacing CaliTex, LLC. 
Defendant further moved to strike Plaintiff’s entire FAC, as well as,
FAC pars. 1, 4, 6(4), 6(d), 9(1), 12, 10(3), and the verification.
The Court considered the demurrer, the motion to strike, and the joint
opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike.  A reply was not filed.  

            Discussion 
            Defendant argued that the FAC failed
to state a cause of action (COA) because the verification is based upon
“information and belief.”  This issue was
raised at the prior demurrer against the original Complaint and did not find
the argument to be grounds to sustain the demurrer.  The Court finds the verification attached to
the FAC to be compliant with Code of Civil Procedure section 446(a).  Including the phrase “information and belief”
does not make the verification hearsay/inadmissible because the FAC is not
being submitted as evidence.  Further, it
is noted that Elias Shokrian signed the verification as Plaintiff’s general
partner.  Defendant’s argument against
the verification attached to the FAC is unpersuasive.
            Defendant argued that the
allegations in the FAC are boilerplate but the FAC is not boilerplate and
alleges ultimate facts to support each element of a UD COA.  Defendant argued that Plaintiff is not a real
party in interest but the Court disagrees. 
Plaintiff the proper real party in interest because Plaintiff is
identified as the lessor/contracting party on the lease.  
            Defendant asserted that Plaintiff
sold their interest in the property to CaliTex LLC but this argument is
improper for demurrer because it relies upon facts outside the four corners of
the pleading.  Whether Plaintiff sold its
interest ownership interest in the property cannot be grounds to sustain the
demurrer.  Issues and evidence as to
Plaintiff’s ownership interest or lack thereof is an issue for discovery and
other summary proceedings.
            Defendant argued that the 3-Day
Notice to Pay or Quit attached to the FAC is improper because a 3-Day/90-Day
should have been issued due to a change in ownership.  Preliminarily, Defendant failed to present
legal authority to support the contention and thus the argument is
unpersuasive.  Further, the contention
that there was a change in ownership is again a fact that is not within the
four corners of the pleading and thus improper grounds for a demurrer.  
            Defendant then argued that the 3-Day
Notice to Quit contained a discrepancy in the amount owed in back rent.  Defendant identified that the 3-Day Notice
asserted back rent of $55,120.00. 
However, the 3-Day Notice attached to the FAC, as well as the Prayer in
the FAC, both requested $41,901.60.  (See
FAC par. 19.c. and Exh. 2.)  There is no
reference to $55,120.00 in either the 3-Day Notice or the FAC.  The argument is not grounded in any facts
within the four corners of the FAC.  Arguments
against the content of the 3-day Notice are unpersuasive.  
            In conclusory fashion, Defendant
argued that the 3-Day Notice was never posted or served.  The proof of service (POS) for the 3-Day
Notice is attached to the FAC and showed that service was completed by posting
on August 2, 2023 at 1:55 PM in a conspicuous place and thereafter mailing the
3-Day Notice.  Plaintiff’s POS showed
compliance with the service requirements. 
Defendant’s contention is not supported by any evidence.  Defendant’s declaration does not attest that
the 3-Day Notice was not posted or that he was not served.  Without evidence from Defendant, Plaintiff’s
POS is proper prima facie evidence of service.
            The demurrer to the FAC is
OVERRULED.
            Defendant moved to strike the entire
FAC, as well as specific fact allegations within the FAC.  Defendant re-asserted that the 3-Day Notice
was not proper and a 3/90 Day Notice was required.  The argument was reviewed above in the
Demurrer and not persuasive.  Defendant
re-asserted a discrepancy in the amount requested in the 3-Day Notice (i.e.,
$55,120.00).  However, this argument was
reviewed in the Demurrer and not persuasive. 
Defendant again attacked the contents and signature of the verification
to the FAC which was reviewed above and not persuasive.  Defendant’s arguments in the motion to strike
are a re-hash of the arguments made in the demurrer.  The Court finds that the motion’s argument
against the entire FAC to be without merit.
Defendant’s Notice to the
Motion to Strike also asserted that specific paragraphs in the FAC are being
placed into issue.  (i.e., FAC pars. 1,
4, 6(4), 6(d), 9(1), 12, 10(3).) 
However, Defendant’s Points and Authorities failed to present any legal
authority or argument applying any legal authority to the alleged facts.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to
seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that
which … [a party] has left unspoken.'” (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th
1677, 1686.) “Contentions
are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and
citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th
1210, 1215.)  Due to Defendant’s failure
to specifically argue why the specific paragraphs are irrelevant, false, or
improper, the requested relief as to the specified paragraphs is waived.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 436.)  
The motion to strike is
DENIED.  
            CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE
 