 Case Number:  23VECV01030    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  T HART V. LASALLE 23VECV01030
4/4/2024
Tentative ruling on
plaintiff’s “Request for Order” filed 2/28/2024. 
If the order is "GRANT"
then the supplemental verified response is due in 15 days.
Plaintiff’s Request #1:
    Plaintiff moved the court via her Preliminary Injunction to
preserve property videos. The court made reference to a “form” being emailed
but it is not addressed in the Order. With the  exception of plaintiff’s
“Litigation Hold” email each and every email sent to preserve property videos
were dated, timed and location specified sent to onsite staff who control the
videos. No videos were preserved. Plaintiff asks the court to give its Order as
soon as possible. Plaintiff also prefers to NOT communicate with onsite staff
due to the harassment she endures by email, and in person. Additionally, Mr.
Bubion is frequently out of the office. With the termination of the corporation
and NO notice given to the tenants as to new alleged owners, plaintiff believes
this form, or email, should go to Defendant Dupree as the REIT owns the DVR
system (this does not change because the dba terminated after the lawsuit was
filed). Mr. Bubion’s MULTIPLE assistants could forward the email but plaintiff
does not know if they are reliable.
Court’s Ruling #1:        Grant subject to the following
conditions.  It is ordered that:
• Counsel for Legacy will prepare
a form for Plaintiff to issue video preservation requests, which will require
Plaintiff to provide the date, time, location of the nearest camera, and topic
(i.e. the general reason for which preservation is being requested).
• The completed form must be
dated and signed by Plaintiff.
• Plaintiff must issue a
completed form in order to request video preservation from Legacy.
• The completed form must be
issued within seventy-two (72) hours of the date and time of the occurrence in
the video being requested.
• The form must be submitted to
the Business Manager at the apartment complex (currently Robyn Christy) by
electronic mail. The email must copy counsel for Legacy (currently Justin
Bubion, Esq.).  Counsel for Legacy must
give email notice to Plaintiff if the Business Manager or counsel change with
the email addresses.
• Requests for preservation of
video shall be for matters relevant to the claims in this case. 
Plaintiff’s Request #2:    
Plaintiff moved via her Motion to Compel OBrien that the court rule on the
“Privilege [defective”] log.” The Court’s Order does not address it. The log
fails to state the subject of each email. Meanwhile these communications about
plaintiff are being withheld. Additionally, at least ½ the communications were
dated after the lawsuit was filed. Subsequently the documents before the
lawsuit which were compelled are nowhere referenced in the log. Regardless,
plaintiff asks the court to please state its position. Such improper logs (See
Motion to Compel OBrien, Ex. “7”) will continue if the court does not address
it, and a lawyer can’t randomly decide that a communication is protected.
Plaintiff did tell the court that Mr. Bubion is being copied on silly emails
about dog feces. (See Motion to Compel OBrien, Ex. “11”). As pled, copying an
attorney to an email does not invoke the attorney-client privilege. It appears
they are maligning plaintiff (as two emails prove) and simply copying Mr.
Bubion on them.
Court’s Ruling #2:      The court GRANTS the motion and
orders that a verified compliant privilege log by defendant Obrien shall be
served by 5/6/2024.  
If a privilege is claimed, a
party must: “provide a privilege log that identifies with particularity each
document the responding party claims is protected from disclosure by aa
privilege and provide sufficient factual information for the propounding party
and court to evaluate whether the claim has merit.” Catalina Island Yacht Club
v Superior Court 242 Cal.App.4th 1116 (2015).
This requires: “the identity and
capacity of all of the individuals who authored, sent or received each
allegedly privileged document,” “the document’s date,” “a brief description of
the document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether
the privilege applies,” “the precise privilege or protection asserted.” Catalina
Island at page 1130.
“When confronted with a deficient
privilege log that fails to provide the necessary information to rule on
attorney-client and work product objections, a trial court may order the
responding party to provide a further privilege log that includes the necessary
information to rule on those objections...”
Plaintiff’s Request #3:    At
the last ex-parte the Court stated, “I don’t see a motion from LaSalle Property
Fund Reit, Inc.” Subsequently, plaintiff asks the court (if possible) to inform
her by Order if she  is even required to Oppose the LLC Motion to Vacate
the Default on the REIT who is clearly properly named? While plaintiff has pled
ad nauseam that there is no association between the 2023 Delaware conversion
and California, as well as the Complaint, there is certainly no correlation
with the REIT who is still running the property through its dba LPF Triana,
Inc. Putting aside the 3-in 1 motion also asking to seek leave for a SECOND
 Amended Answer based on a word, without complying with CRC Rule 3.1324,
the LLC has never been a defendant in this case. Plaintiff should not have to
spend hours  opposing a motion by a non-party.
Court’s Ruling #3:       This is not a request for order but a question directed to the court about what
litigation decisions should be made by the plaintiff.  It is up to
plaintiff as to whether she will oppose or not oppose a motion.  However,
the court will consider all motions timely filed.