  Case Number:  23STCV08524    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 30, 2023               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Kyung Yoon Pak v. Ock J. Kim, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08524            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE (x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant Ock J. Kim; (2) Defendant Sunhee Yi.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Plaintiff
Kyung Yoon Pak
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action filed on April 18, 2023. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants refused to repair persistent defects at the property where Plaintiff
was a tenant, including termite infestations and plumbing issues. 
 
Defendants demur to the Complaint
and move to strike portions of the Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrers to the
Complaint are SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the claims
against these named defendants. This ruling is without prejudice to assertion
of the claims set forth in the first, second, third, ninth, and eleventh causes
of action against the actual owner of the subject property. 
 
            Defendants’
Motions to Strike are DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of a deed of trust regarding the
subject property. Plaintiff objects to this request on the basis that the
documents are not relevant, because “it is unclear how Defendants intend to use
the information,” and because Defendants are purportedly attempting to
“sidestep their burden of proving that their exhibits are admissible.” Contrary
to Plaintiff’s assertion, the deed of trust is facially relevant to this action
and to Defendants’ arguments in support of the demurrer. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
demand for an evidentiary hearing and arguments concerning evidentiary burden
are entirely improper on demurrer. 
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial
Notice is therefore GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official
acts). 
 
Demurrers to Complaint
 
Defendants demur to the first
through third, sixth, and eighth through eleventh causes of action as asserted
against them. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            The
Declaration of Raymond Zakari, counsel for Defendants, attached to the Demurrer
states that he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff via telephone twice,
first on May 22, 2023, and again on May 24, 2023. (Declaration of Raymond
Zakari ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendants’ counsel states that Plaintiff, who was
self-represented at the time, refused to discuss the issues presented in the
demurrers. (Id. ¶ 3.) Defendants have therefore satisfied their
statutory meet and confer obligations. 
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for breach of contract for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff entered into a rental agreement with both
Defendants for the property at 1023 S. Victoria Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90019,
for a monthly rent of $1,550. (Complaint ¶ 12.) The Complaint alleges that the
property had several serious habitability defects which Defendants refused to
cure. (¶ 14-15.) Plaintiff argues in opposition and asserts in the Complaint
itself that Defendants’ actions constitute a breach of the rental agreement.
(See Complaint ¶ 16.) Defendants do not dispute the existence of a rental
agreement between Plaintiff and the owner of the property but argue that Plaintiff
has not properly alleged a claim for breach of contract because Plaintiff has
not named the proper owner of the subject property and has not identified any
terms of the contract which were breached. The Complaint alleges that Defendant
Kim is the owner of the property, but concedes that Defendant Yi is the
property manager, not the owner. (Complaint ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
The Court concurs as to Defendants’
first contention, but not the second. The deed of trust recorded with the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office plainly transfers ownership from Defendant Kim
in her individual capacity to the Ock Ja Kim Living Trust, with Defendant Kim
as the trustee. (RJN Exh. A.) Thus, Plaintiff has not named the actual owner
with whom he alleges a rental agreement was formed. As to the latter
contention, notwithstanding the name given to it, the first cause of action is
properly construed as a claim for breach of the implied warranty of
habitability. The elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied
warranty of habitability “are the existence of a material defective condition
affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition
within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the
landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting
damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1281, 1297.) Defendants do not address the sufficiency of the allegations in
this cause of action as they pertain to a theory of implied warranty of
habitability, and therefore fail to fully engage with the allegations of the
Complaint in this respect. 
 
That said, because Plaintiff has
not alleged the proper party with whom the rental agreement was formed,
Defendants’ demurrers to the first cause of action are SUSTAINED.  A claim against Defendant Kim as an
individual is distinct from a claim against her in her capacity as Trustee for
the Ock Ja Kim Living Trust UTD February 27, 2012, which is the record owner of
the property and the proper defendant in this action.
 
//
 
//
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
           Defendants
also demur to this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. A claim of this nature is premised on the
existence of an enforceable contract. (See, e.g., Racine & Laramie, Ltd.
v. Dep’t of Parks and Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-33.)
Defendants contend that this cause of action fails because, as with the first
cause of action, Plaintiff has not asserted this claim against the party with
whom he actually contracted, that is, the owner of the property. For this
reason, Defendants’ demurrers to the second cause of action are SUSTAINED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment
 
            Defendants
demur to this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for the same reasons as the second cause of
action. For the reasons explained above in connection with that claim,
Defendants’ demurrers to the third cause of action are SUSTAINED. 
 
Ninth
Cause of Action: Constructive Eviction
 
            Defendants demur to
this cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for the same reasons as the second cause of action. For the
reasons stated above in connection with that claim, Defendants’ demurrers to
the ninth cause of action are SUSTAINED. 
 
Eleventh
Cause of Action: Violation of Civ. Code § 1942.4
 
Defendants demur to this cause of
action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
for the same reasons as the second cause of action. For the reasons stated
above in connection with that claim, Defendants’ demurrers to the eleventh
cause of action are SUSTAINED. 
 
Sixth
Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            Defendants demur to the sixth cause
of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress on the basis that it
is duplicative of the seventh cause of action for negligence. Defendants are
correct. Negligent infliction of emotional distress is not an independent tort.
(Catsouras v. Dept. of California Highway Patrol (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
856, 875-76.) Moreover, both claims are premised on the same factual
allegations. (See Complaint ¶¶ 7-10, 41, 46.) The Court therefore finds that
this cause of action is duplicative of the seventh cause of action.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrers to the sixth cause of action are SUSTAINED. 
 
Eighth
Cause of Action: Wrongful Eviction
 
            Defendants demur to the eighth cause
of action for wrongful eviction for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
            Wrongful eviction is not a
standalone cause of action. (Black v. Knight (1917) 176 Cal. 722, 726.)
“Where the eviction arises from wrongful use of the judicial processes the
cause of action is one for malicious prosecution.” (Id.) To
prevail on a claim for malicious prosecution, a plaintiff must plead and prove
that the underlying action was (1) terminated in the plaintiff or
cross-complainant’s favor; (2) prosecuted without probable cause; and (3)
initiated with malice. (Franklin Mint Co. v. Manatt, Phelps Phillips, LLP
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 313, 333.)
 
            Here, as Defendants correctly state,
Plaintiff does not allege any underlying legal proceeding, malicious or
otherwise. Plaintiff only alleges that Defendants intended to terminate
Plaintiff’s occupancy of the property by failing to cure the habitability
defects alleged. (See Complaint ¶¶ 47-48.) These allegations do not suffice to
allege malicious prosecution.  Instead,
the proper cause of action appears to be constructive eviction which may be
asserted in this context against the owner of the property. 
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the eighth cause of action for wrongful eviction are SUSTAINED. 
 
Tenth
Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            Finally, Defendants demur to the
tenth cause of action for conversion for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
The tort of conversion is “an act
of willful interference with personal property, done without lawful
justification, by which any person entitled thereto is deprived of the use and
possession of personal property.” (De Vries v. Brumback (1960) 53 Cal.2d
643, 647.) For the purpose of this tort, “personal property” must be tangible.
(See, e.g., Minniear v. Tors (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 495, 505.) It is well
settled that the tort of conversion does not apply to real property. (See,
e.g., Reynolds v. Lerman (1956) 138 Cal.App.2d 586, 591; Vuich v.
Smith (1934) 140 Cal.App.453, 455.) 
 
The Complaint offers only
conclusory allegations that Plaintiff had an interest pertaining to the subject
property with which Defendants interfered. (Complaint ¶¶ 54-59.) As Defendants
argue, this cause of action is improper in the context of the real property
interest—i.e., Plaintiff’s rental of the property—that is the subject of the
Complaint. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrers
to the tenth cause of action for Conversion are SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
With respect to the sixth cause of action, the Court finds
that leave to amend would be inappropriate because the claim for negligent
infliction of emotional distress is duplicative of the seventh cause of action
for negligence. As to the eighth and tenth causes of action, it is apparent
from the factual allegations that gave rise to this dispute that malicious
prosecution and conversion of personal property are simply not applicable to
the facts as alleged here. The Court therefore concludes that leave to amend as
to these causes of action would also be inappropriate. Finally, with respect to
the remaining causes of action at issue on this demurrer, the Court concludes
from the materials which are subject to judicial notice that leave to amend as
to the named individual defendants would also be improper because neither of
these parties is the owner of the subject property. However, this ruling is
strictly limited to Plaintiff’s contractual claims in the first, second, third,
ninth, and eleventh causes of action as to the named individual defendants and
is without prejudice as to the assertion of any claims against Ock J. Kim as Trustee
of the Ock J. Kim Living Trust. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrers to the
Complaint are SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the named
defendants. This ruling is without prejudice to assertion of the claims set
forth in the first, second, third, ninth, and eleventh causes of action against
the actual owner of the subject property. 
 
Motions to Strike Portions of the Complaint
 
            Defendants
also move to strike a portion paragraph 17 of the first cause of action for
breach of contract seeking attorney’s fees. As the Court has sustained
Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action, Defendants’ motions to strike
are MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrers to the
Complaint are SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the named
defendants. This ruling is without prejudice to assertion of the claims set
forth in the first, second, third, ninth, and eleventh causes of action against
the actual owner of the subject property. 
 
            Defendants’
Motions to Strike are DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: November 30, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 