    BACKGROUND   On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Juan Arias Ibarra (“Plaintiff”)  filed a complaint against Defendants SoCal Cars, Inc., Westlake Services, LLC  DBA Westlake Financial Services, and Hudson Insurance Company and DOES 1  through 40, inclusive, (“Defendants”) for 1) Violation of Consumers  Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code § 1750 et seq; 2) Violation of California  Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.; 3) Unlawful Acts or Practices;  4) Violation of Civil Code §1632; 5) Claim Against Surety; 6) Violation of Code  of Civil Procedure §§'s 1281.97 & 1281.99. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges  that they purchased a used vehicle from Defendant SoCal Cars, Inc. (“Seller”). Plaintiff  contends that seller made representations as to the condition of the vehicle,  but the vehicle had one open recall and was in a major accident that caused  structural damage after substandard repair. Defendant Westlake Services  (“Holder”) was assigned the contract of sale and accepted the payments under  the contract. Plaintiff alleges that they are entitled to a right of action  against Defendant Hudson Insurance Company (“Surety”) as to Seller’s bond.  Plaintiff seeks damages limited to $35,000 and rescission of the contract and  restitution of amounts paid, as well as attorney’s fees.    MOVING PARTY  POSITION               On July 25,  2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration on the basis  that their contract for the sale of the subject vehicle contains an arbitration  provision.                 OPPOSITION               No  Opposition was filed.                  ANALYSIS   I.          Legal  Standard & Discussion Under Code of Civil  Procedure section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it  finds that the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the  obligation to arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration  only if the dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to  arbitrate. (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since  arbitration is a favored method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements  should be liberally interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the  agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p.  353; Segal v. Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)     A. Existence of a Valid Arbitration  Agreement The right to compel arbitration  exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s  conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a  pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility  of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.2(a)-(c).)   ¿ The party moving to compel arbitration must establish  the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of  Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  “With respect to  the moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of  an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present  a copy of the contract to the court. (See Condee v. Longwood Management  Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 597 (Condee );  see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or  to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and  1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of  the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The  provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or  electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once  such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party  opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to the  enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.  [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple  Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)   Here,  Plaintiff seeks to compel arbitration of their claims as to two of three  defendants, SoCal Cars and Westlake Services, based on the contract for sale of  the subject vehicle, which includes an agreement to arbitrate all claims (“the  Agreement”). (Mot., Ibarra Decl., Exh. 1.) Plaintiff argues that the contract  requires arbitration if elected so by the consumer. In support of the existence  of an arbitration agreement, Plaintiff submits evidence of a copy of the contract  for sale of the subject vehicle, which includes the arbitration agreement. (Mot.,  Ibarra Decl., Exh. 1.)  The Agreement  contains provisions allowing Plaintiff or defendants to arbitrate any claim or  dispute relating to the sale of the vehicle. (Ibid.) The pertinent  provision reads:        “ARBITRATION  PROVISION 1.      EITHER  YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND  NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.  Any claim  or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the  interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability  of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,  successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit  application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any  resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with  third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be  resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court decision... You may  choose the American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, Floor 10, New York,  NY 10019 (www.adr.org); or any other organization to conduct the arbitration  subject to our approval… ANY HOLDER  OF THIS CONSUMER CREDIT CONTRACT IS SUBJECT TO ALL CLAIMS AND DEFENSES WHICH  THE DEBTOR COULD ASSERT AGAINST THE SELLER OF GOODS OR SERVICES OBTAINED  PURUSANT HERETO OR WITH THE PROCESS HEREOF. "  (Mot., Ibarra Decl., Exh. 1.)    Here, Plaintiff has met his  burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by presenting  a copy of the agreement to the Court. Plaintiff has established that the  agreement binds Seller SoCal Cars, Inc. as the agreement lists Socal Cars, Inc.  as the Seller/Creditor. Further, Plaintiff has established that the agreement  binds Holder Westlake Services based on the language directed at holders of  consumer credit contracts. The burden now shifts to Defendant to challenge the  existence or enforceability of the agreement. However, Defendants did not  oppose this motion, and thus do not challenge the existence or enforceability of  the arbitration agreement.    Therefore, a valid arbitration  agreement exists between Plaintiff and Defendants SoCal Cars, Inc., and  Westlake Services.   Accordingly, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff Juan Arias Ibarra’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings  as to SoCal Cars, Inc. and Westlake Services.    B. Attorney’s Fees and Costs  Related to Arbitration A court may award attorneys' fees, and costs, incurred in relation to  statutorily authorized judicial proceedings regarding arbitration, and the  arbitrator makes the determination in connection with the arbitration  proceedings. Corona  v. Amherst (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 701, 707; DiMarco v. Chaney (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th  1809, 1816-1817; Carole Ring &  Assocs. v. Nicastro (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 253, 260-262; Ajida Technologies, Inc. v. Roos  Instruments, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 534, 552, fn. 11.    Here,  Plaintiff seeks an order directing Defendants to pay all of Plaintiff’s  reasonable attorney’s fees and costs related to arbitration. On June 30, 2023,  Plaintiff sent a demand for arbitration to Defendants SoCal Cars and Westlake  Services. (Mot., Sadr Decl., Exh. 1.) Plaintiff filed a Demand for Arbitration  with The American Arbitration Association (“AAA”). (Mot., Sadr Decl., Exh. 4.) On  February 5, 2024, AAA notified the parties that SoCal Cars failed to comply  with AAA’s policies and removed themselves from the Consumer Clause Registry,  such that AAA declined to administer this claim. (Ibid.) On May 14,  2024, AAA notified the parties that Defendant Westlake Services failed to pay  the $900 administrative fees to AAA and requested payment by May 29, 2024. (Mot.,  Sadr Decl., Exh. 5.)  On May 30, AAA  declined to administer this claim as payment was not received. (Mot., Sadr  Decl., Exh. 6.)   As to costs, Plaintiff  has agreed to arbitrate their claims with AAA or JAMS, per the agreement which  states that the consumer may choose AAA “or any other organization to conduct  the arbitration, subject to our approval…” (Mot., Ibarra Decl., Exh. 1.) The  arbitration provision states, “we will pay your filing, administration, service  or case management fee and your arbitrator or hearing fee all up to a maximum  of $5,000, unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization  require us to pay more…” (Mot., Ibarra Decl., Exh. 1.) Based on the foregoing,  Plaintiff has established 1) their right to arbitrate their claims against SoCal  Cars, Inc. and Westlake Services with either AAA or JAMS and 2) that SoCal  Cars, Inc. and Westlake Services are obligated to pay the administrative fees  associated with the arbitration.   As to attorney’s fees, the  agreement states that “each party shall be responsible for its own attorney,  expert and other fees, unless awarded by the arbitrator under applicable law.” (Mot.,  Ibarra Decl., Exh. 1.) Thus, Plaintiff shall be responsible for their own  attorney’s fees in connection with arbitration. Although the Court may award  attorneys' fees, and costs, incurred in relation to statutorily authorized  judicial proceedings regarding arbitration, Plaintiff did not include a request  for attorney’s fees and costs for the preparing and filing of this motion.    Accordingly, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s Request for an Order Requiring Defendants to Pay All Costs Related  to Arbitration.   The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s  Request for an Order Requiring Defendants to Pay Plaintiffs’ Attorney’s Fees  Related to Arbitration.      II.        Conclusion                           Plaintiff Juan Arias  Ibarra’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings as to SoCal Cars,  Inc. and Westlake Services, LLC is GRANTED.   Plaintiff’s Request for an Order  Requiring SoCal Cars, Inc. and Westlake Services to Pay Costs Related to  Arbitration is GRANTED.   Plaintiff’s Request for an Order  Requiring Defendants to Pay Plaintiffs’ Attorney’s Fees Related to Arbitration  is DENIED.                The action  is entirely stayed pending completion of arbitration.      The Court sets status update as follows:    Post Arbitration Status Conference is set for June 30, 2025,  at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.   Counsel are ordered to file a JOINT Declaration/Report  Re:  Status of Arbitration Proceedings at  least five (5) court days prior to 06/30/2025.   The Non-Jury Trial scheduled for  12/15/2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse, remains on calendar as currently scheduled.              Moving  party is ordered to give notice of ruling. 