  Case Number:  23PSCV00922    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants  Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp.; Howard Trinh; and Cloud & Sky Enterprises’s Demurrer  to Cross-Complaint Respondent: Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Philip Chatalos TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants  Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp.; Howard Trinh; and Cloud & Sky Enterprises’s  Demurrer to Cross-Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the  hearing in Department G (Pomona). Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants  Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp.; Howard Trinh; and Cloud & Sky Enterprises’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Philip Chatalos’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental  declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court  days before the next scheduled hearing. BACKGROUND This  is an action for breach of contract and fraud. In August 2019, Plaintiff  Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp. (Trinhnology) entered into an alleged oral  agreement with Defendant Philip Chatalos in which Trinhnology agreed to pay a  monthly design fee and sales commissions to Chatalos in exchange for Chatalos’s  sale of Trinhnology’s clothing products. In September 2022, Trinhnology ended  its business relationship with Chatalos. Trinhnology alleges Chatalos breached  their agreement by failing to repay advances on Chatalos’s commission that  Trinhnology had paid. Trinhnology also alleges Chatalos overcharged Trinhnology  for product samples or requested reimbursement for samples that had not been  purchased. Last, Trinhnology alleges Trinhnology alleges Chatalos failed to  follow up with a client to ensure they made payments for previous orders and  reinstated orders that had been cancelled. On  March 29, 2023, Trinhnology filed a complaint against Chatalos and Does 1-30,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of oral contract, (2)  common counts, (3) breach of oral contract, (4) common counts, (5) fraud, (6)  negligence, (7) common counts, (8) negligence, and (9) negligence. On  April 21, 2023, Chatalos filed a cross-complaint against Trinhnology, Howard  Quoc Trinh, Cloud & Sky Enterprises (Cloud & Sky), and Does 1-50,  alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) a violation of the California  Independent Wholesale Sales Representative Contractual Relations Act. On July  11, Chatalos dismissed the cross-complaint without prejudice. On  November 2, 2023, after obtaining leave from the court, Chatalos filed a  cross-complaint against Trinhnology, Howard Trinh, Cloud & Sky, and Does  1-50, alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) a violation of the California  Independent Wholesale Sales Representative Contractual Relations Act. On January  10, 2024, Trinhology, Trinh, and Cloud & Sky (collectively, Trinh  Defendants) filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing, the Trinh Defendants’  counsel states counsel met and conferred telephonically with Chatalos’s counsel  and was unable to reach a resolution. (Strecker Decl., ¶ 2.) A hearing  on the demurrer is set for February 7, 2024, with a case management conference  set for April 16. ANALYSIS The  Trinh Defendants demur to Chatalos’s entire Cross-Complaint. For the following  reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer. Legal  Standard Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), prior to filing a  demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone  with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the  purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve  the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section further provides  that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action  that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the  basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1).) While  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) makes clear failing  to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer, courts “are not  required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and if the court  determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes further  conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains discretion  to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward  reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to  continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles  County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn. 3.) Discussion In this case,  the Trinh Defendants’ counsel filed a declaration stating counsel met and  conferred telephonically with Chatalos’s counsel. (Strecker Decl., ¶ 2(a).) But  in response, Chatalos’s counsel filed a declaration stating the Trinh  Defendants’ counsel did not met and confer telephonically before filing the  present demurrer. (Bollinger Decl., ¶ 6.) Instead, on January 10, 2024, the  Trinh Defendants’ counsel sent a meet-and-confer email that claimed the  telephonic meet-and-confer efforts between counsel in June 2023 were sufficient  to satisfy the meet and confer requirements. (Bollinger Decl., Ex. A.) Because there  is no evidence that the Trinh Defendants’ counsel met and conferred regarding  the operative Cross-Complaint after it was filed in November 2023, the court  finds counsel failed to adequately meet and confer and finds a  continuance of the hearing on the Trinh Defendants’ demurrer is appropriate. CONCLUSION Based  on the foregoing, the Trinh Defendants’ demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to  be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).The Trinh Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Chatalos’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing. 