  Case Number:  20STCV10508    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Sephora USA,
Inc.
 
Tentative
 
The motion to continue trial is granted.
 
Background
On March 16, 2020, Plaintiff Marcelita
Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against Sephora USA, Inc., JCPenney,
J.C. Penney Properties, Inc., and Does 1 through 50, for a premises liability
cause of action arising from a trip and fall on May 27, 2018.
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant
Sephora USA, Inc. filed its motion for summary judgment. 
 
On January 11, 2024, Defendant Sephora
USA, Inc. (“Defendant”), filed its motion to continue trial. No opposition has
been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Defendant contends that there is good cause for a continuance of trial,
or in the alternative to specially set the motion for summary judgment hearing,
as Defendant has filed its motion for summary judgment and it is scheduled for
hearing on February 18, 2025. (Felsenfeld Decl., ¶ 5.) Trial date is currently
set for March 25, 2024. (Id.) Per Defendant’s counsel declaration, Plaintiff’s does not oppose the
trial continuance. (Id., ¶ 10.)
There has been a prior continuance in this matter for allow Defendant’s
motion to compel to be heard. (Id.¸¶ 11.)
The Court finds Defendant has shown good cause for a continuance due to
the right to have their motion for summary judgment heard. 
The Court does not have available any dates for a summary judgment
hearing in advance of the trial date.
Therefore, Defendant’s Motion to Continue is GRANTED. 
Conclusion
The Motion to
Continue is GRANTED. 
The trial date
is advanced and continued to a date on or after March 25, 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 