  Case Number:  24PSCV00710    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  H Luevano-Macias v. Starbucks
Corporation, et al., Case No. 24PSCV00710


ORDER ON MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS
COUNSEL


Counsel for Plaintiff Crystal
Luevano-Macias’ (i.e., Morgan and Morgan Los Angeles, LLP) Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the
filing of a proof of service showing service of the signed order upon the Client at the Client’s
last known address.

Background
On
or about January 23, 2024, Plaintiff Crystal Luevano-Macias (“Plaintiff”) allegedly
sustained severe burns after hot coffee spilled onto her hand and lap while
patronizing the Starbucks drive-through in West Covina.
On
March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting two negligence causes of
action against Starbucks Corporation (“Starbucks”), Eugene Weiss, and Does 1-50.
On September 26, 2024, the Court sustained Starbucks’
demurrer, with 20 days’ leave to amend.
A Case Management Conference is set for January 6,
2025. Pending before the Court is Morgan & Morgan Los Angeles, LLP’s motion
to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff.


 
Discussion
Morgan
& Morgan Los Angeles, LLP (the “Firm”)
seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff (“the Client”).
The
Court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should
be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398.)
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion directed
to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules Court,
rule 3.1362(e).)
Attorney Adam C. Phillips
(“Phillips”) attests that there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship, which precludes the Firm’s ability to effectively represent the Client
in this matter. Phillips states that he has served
the Client by mail at the Client’s last known address with copies of the motion
papers served with this declaration and that he has confirmed, within the past
30 days, that the address is current, via mail, return receipt requested.The
motion is not opposed. The Court determines that the requirements of Rules of
Court
Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been sufficiently met.
Accordingly,
the motion is granted, effective upon the filing of a proof of service
showing service of the signed order upon the Client at the Client’s last known
address.  