..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23AHCV02450
Plaintiff's Name: Xia Lu
Defendant's Name: ATL USA INC., D-GLOBAL, LLC, ANJUAN PAN, JINGHANG WANG, DIMITRI J. KACZMAREK, XIANSHENG DUAN, and DOES 1 to 20
People Names: Xia Lu, Anjuan Pan, Jinghang Wang, Dimitri J. Kaczmarek, Xiansheng Duan
Company Names: ATL USA INC., D-GLOBAL, LLC, ATL
Places: Temple City, California, 10950 Freer St.
Dates: October 23, 2023, December 18, 2023, January 16, 2024, January 23, 2024, January 30, 2024
Events: Breach of lease agreement, Nonpayment of rent, Allegations of fraud and intentional misrepresentation
Money: Rent
Intentions: To determine whether the complaint states a cause of action
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that defendants breached a lease agreement and failed to pay rent
Disputes: Demurrer to the complaint
Acts: Breach of lease agreement, Nonpayment of rent
Agreements: Lease agreement
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Civil Code section 1951.2, Civil Code section 1951.3
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda (2007), SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984), Code Civ. Proc. section 430.10(e), Code Civ. Proc. section 430.30(a), Michaelis v. Benavides (1998), Beckwith v. Dahl (2012), Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013), Orcilla v. Big Sur, Inc. (2016), Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014)
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, Civil Code
Roles: Judge Joel L. Lofton, Plaintiff Xia Lu, Defendant Xiansheng Duan
Significant Statements: The complaint fails to state a cause of action, the allegations are insufficient, the plaintiff has failed to plead the existence of a contract to which Duan is a party, the plaintiff's allegations in her third and fourth causes of action fail to state fraud claims with any specificity, and the plaintiff's fifth cause of action merely alleges a promise without specifying who made the promise or that Duan is implicated.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer filed by defendant Xiansheng Duan. The demurrer was filed to challenge the plaintiff's complaint, which alleges that the defendants breached a lease agreement and failed to pay rent. The judge has sustained the demurrer with 20 days' leave to amend.

The judge found that the plaintiff's first and second causes of action, alleging nonpayment of rent and breach of contract, fail to state a cause of action because the plaintiff has failed to allege that Duan is a party to the contract. The judge also found that the plaintiff's third and fourth causes of action, alleging fraud and intentional misrepresentation, fail to state fraud claims with any specificity. The judge noted that the plaintiff's allegations in these causes of action do not detail what misrepresentation is alleged, who made the representations, when the representations were made, or any other factual allegations supporting her claims.

The judge also found that the plaintiff's fifth cause of action, alleging promissory estoppel, fails to state a claim for promissory estoppel against Duan because the plaintiff has failed to allege who made the promise or that Duan is implicated in the alleged promise.

The judge has given the plaintiff 20 days to amend the complaint to address the deficiencies identified in the demurrer.
