  Case Number:  22AHCV00985    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
30, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         SARKIS MAKAROJI
ARTIN TERZIAN, v. TAICANG VEVOR MACHINERY EQUIPMENT CO., LTD, a limited
company; SAVEN CORPORATION, a California corporation; VEVOR CORPORATION, a
California corporation; VEVOR MACHINERY EQUIPMENT CO., LTD, a limited company;
and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00985
 
            
 
DISCOVERY
MOTIONS 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Motion to compel further responses
and motion for relief from waiver filed by Plaintiff
 
                                                Motion
to compel a response and to deem admitted filed by Defendant Saven Corporation
(“Saven”)
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling further responses to his requests for the production of documents
and for an order for relief from waiver of objections.
 
            Saven moves for an order
compelling a response to its form interrogatories and for an order deeming the
truth of the matters asserted in its requests for admissions admitted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Sarkis
Makaroji Artin Terzian’s (“Plaintiffs”) product liability claim. Plaintiff
filed this complaint on November 2, 2022, alleging six causes of action for (1)
strict products liability, (2) failure to warn, (3) breach of express
warranties, (4) breach of implied warranties, 
(5) negligent products liability, and (6) negligent infliction of
emotional distress. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is GRANTED
as to RFP numbers 1 and 2. Saven is ordered to provide further responses within
20 days of the date of this order.
 
            Saven’s motions to compel a response and to deem the
truth of the matters asserted in its RFAs admitted is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling a response to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. section
2030.290, subd. (b).) The same applies to a party that fails to respond to a
request for document production. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.300, subd. (b).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), provides that
if a party fails to respond to a request for admission, “[t]he requesting party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted”.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling further responses to his requests for production
of documents. Plaintiff provides he served his discovery responses on May 24,
2023. (Podolsky Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff provides that Defendant served
deficient responses on July 17, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 5-6.) In opposition, Saven
provides it served supplemental responses on September 14, 2023. (Sergian Decl.
¶ 4, Exhibit A.) 
 
            Saven
provides that the only pending discovery requests are requests for production
numbers 1 and 2. 
 
            RFP
No. 1: All DOCUMENTS that PERTAIN TO any returns to YOU of
the SUBJECTFOOD PROCESSOR during the ten (10) year period prior to and
including the present date.
 
            RFP No. 2: All DOCUMENTS that
PERTAIN TO any complaints made to YOU about the SUBJECT FOOD PROCESSOR during
the ten (10) year period prior to and including the present date.
 
            Saven
provides it is unable to provide any responses to RFP numbers 1 and 2 because
they have limited access to Vevor’s system. (Liu Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)
Saven provides it was unable to find any emails referencing the subject food
processor within the last year. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is granted as to RFP numbers 1 and 2. Saven
is ordered to produce any responsive documents readily available. However,
Saven may, if appropriate, state it has no responsive documents in its
possession. 
 
            Motion
to Compel a Response and Deem Admitted
 
            Saven
moves for an order compelling a response to its form interrogatories and for an
order deeming the truth of the matters asserted in its requests for admissions
deemed admitted.
 
            Saven
provides it served its discovery requests on Plaintiff on August 22, 2023.
(Sergian Decl ¶ 2.) In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel provides that he did not
receive any email containing discovery requests. (Koron Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff
provides he served verified responses on October 14, 2023. Despite the
responses, Saven served the present motions on October 15, 2023, and filed them
on October 16, 2023.
 
            Saven
does not dispute that these motions were filed after Plaintiff served its
responses but contends that the responses were deficient. However, because
responses were served, Saven should have filed a motion to compel further with
a separate statement as required by California Rules of Court Rule 3.1345.
Saven did not comply with this requirement. Further, Plaintiff provides he
served supplemental responses to Defendant’s requests for admissions on
November 27, 2023. 
 
            Because
Plaintiff served its responses before Saven served or filed the present
motions, Saven’s motions are improper. Further, Saven seeks mandatory sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c), which provides
in part: “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction
. . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” However, the
responses were served before the motion was filed, meaning Plaintiff’s actions
did not necessitate the present motions.
 
            Saven’s motions to compel a response
and for an order deeming the truth of the matters asserted are denied.
 
            Motion for Relief from Waiver
of Objection
 
            Plaintiff moves
for relief from waiver of objections. The Code of Civil Procedure provides that
a party who fails to serve timely responses waives the right to object to
discovery requests. (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.290, subd. (a).)
However, a party may be relieved from this waiver if it demonstrates it served
responses in substantial compliance with the applicable statutes and its
failure to serve responses was a result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (See, e.g. Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.290, subd. (a)(1)-(2).)
 
            Plaintiff provides that his failure
to provide timely responses was because his counsel never received the email
containing the discovery requests. (Koron
Dec. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff provides he
served his initial responses on October 14, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
provides he also served responses on November 13, 2023. (Id.  9.) Plaintiff’s motion for relief from
waiver is granted.
 
Lastly, the court emphasizes that “reasonable and food faith efforts at
informal resolution of discovery disputes are no doubt a key part of the
discovery system.” (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424,
434.) Further, “ ‘ “[m]issue of the discovery process includes failing to
respond or submit to authorized discovery [and] providing evasive discovery
responses . . ..” ’ ” (Clement v. Aleegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277,
1286.) The court cautions the parties against any future efforts to avoid
engaging in the discovery process in good faith and warns that sanctions will
be imposed against parties violating these precepts. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is GRANTED
as to RFP numbers 1 and 2. Saven is ordered to provide further responses within
20 days of the date of this order.
 
            Saven’s motions to compel a response and to deem the
truth of the matters asserted in its RFAs admitted is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 30,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
