 Case Number:  20STCV48832    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
10, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE:  February 2, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Brown v. GM Motors, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV48832
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Nicole Brown 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant General
Motors, LLC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
lemon law case.  On December 22, 2020,
Plaintiff, Nicole Brown, filed a Complaint, against Defendant, GM Motors, LLC, alleging
that she purchased a defective 2017 Chevrolet Tahoe (the “Vehicle”) which
Defendant’s failed to conform to the Vehicle’s express warranties.  On July 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (FAC), asserting causes of action for:
 

Breach of Implied Warranty of
     Merchantability under the Song-Beverly Act 


Breach of Express Warranty
     under the Song-Beverly Act 


Breach of Express Warranty
     under California Commercial Code § 2-313 


Violation of the Magnuson-Moss
     Warranty Act 


Violation of Civil Code § 1750 (The
     Consumers Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”))

 
With the FAC, Plaintiff added the Second, Third, and Fourth
Causes of Action and sought injunctive relief pursuant to the CLRA.
 
On August 18, 2023, Defendant filed a Demurrer to the Fifth Cause
of Action and concurrently filed a Motion to Strike punitive damages.
 
On December 23, 2023, the court overruled Defendant’s
Demurrer.  The court further ruled that
the Motion to Strike was moot because the FAC did not include a request for
punitive damages.
 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Leave
to File a Second Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff seeks to add a request for punitive
damages under the CLRA claim.[1]
 
            Defendant
filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A
different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)¿ The
motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of
the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)¿ 
            In ruling on a motion for leave to
amend a pleading, the court does not consider the merits of the proposed
amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment
and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the
court may deny leave to amend where the proposed amendment is insufficient to
state a valid cause of action or defense, such denial is most appropriate where
the insufficiency cannot be cured by further amendment—i.e., where the statute
of limitations has expired or the insufficiency is established by controlling
caselaw. (California Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173
Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281, disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks leave to file the
proposed Second Amended Complaint which adds a request for punitive damages
pursuant to Civil Code section 1782, subdivision (d).  The effect of the amendment is to add a “request
for damages to protect Plaintiff’s rights to continue to pursue his claims in
this case . . . .”  (Quinn Decl., ¶ 5.) 
A copy of the proposed pleading is attached to the Declaration of Elizabeth
Quinn.
 
            Defendant argues Plaintiff is not
entitled to assert a claim for damages because she has not given sufficient
notice of her CLRA claim.  For this
proposition, Defendant cites Civil Code section 1782, subdivision (a), which
provides,
 
Thirty days or more prior to the
commencement of an action for damages pursuant to this title, the consumer
shall do the following:
 
(1) Notify the person alleged
to have employed or committed methods, acts, or practices declared unlawful by
Section 1770 of the particular alleged violations of Section 1770.
 
(2) Demand that the person
correct, repair, replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to
be in violation of Section 1770.
 
(Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (a).)
 
            In other words, prior to commencing
an action for damages on a CLRA claim, a plaintiff must provide notice and
assert a demand to correct, repair, replace, or otherwise rectify. 
 
However, Defendant
overlooks the statutory provision upon which Plaintiff bases her proposed
amendment.  Subdivision (d) of Civil Code
section 1782 states,
 
An action for
injunctive relief brought under the specific provisions of Section 1770 may be
commenced without compliance with subdivision (a). Not less than 30
days after the commencement of an action for injunctive relief, and after
compliance with subdivision (a), the consumer may amend his or her complaint
without leave of court to include a request for damages. The appropriate
provisions of subdivision (b) or (c) shall be applicable if the complaint for
injunctive relief is amended to request damages.
 
(Civ. Code, §
1782, subd. (d), emphasis added.)
            Here,
Plaintiff first asserted a CLRA claim in her FAC.  Plaintiff sought injunctive relief for the
CLRA claim.  She now seeks to amend the
FAC to include a request for damages, which is expressly authorized by
Subdivision (d).  Plaintiff was not
required to provide pre-suit notice to allege damages, including
punitive damages, for the CLRA claim.  Further,
the FAC states, 
 
“Along with this complaint,
Plaintiff sent via US Certified Mail, a notice of violation of the CLRA and
demanded that Defendants make an appropriate correction. Should Defendants fail
to make an appropriate correction after the expiration of thirty (30) days from
said notice, Plaintiff will amend this First Amended Complaint seeking actual
damages, including punitive damages.”
 
(FAC, ¶ 64.)
 
            As alleged in the FAC, Plaintiff has
complied with the procedure outlined in Subdivision (d).  Defendant ignores Subdivision (d) and relies
on inapposite authority.  Morgan v.
AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1235, a case cited
by Plaintiff, is dispositive. In Morgan, plaintiffs filed a complaint
and first amended complaint which sought only injunctive relief under the
CLRA.  In their second amended complaint,
plaintiff alleged for the first time, a claim for damages under the CLRA.  AT&T demurred to the CLRA claim which the
trial court sustained on the ground that plaintiffs had not complied with the pre-suit
notice requirement.  Plaintiff filed a
third amended complaint and alleged compliance with the notice requirement on a
date prior to the filing of the third amended complaint.  The court sustained AT&T’s demurrer
without leave to amend.  The Second
Appellate District Court reversed, stating:
 
“AT & T did not specifically
address the merits of plaintiffs' CLRA claim in its demurrer to the third
amended complaint, nor does it address the merits in its respondent's brief on
appeal. Instead, AT & T argues that plaintiffs' CLRA claim fails because
plaintiffs did not send the required notice before commencement of the lawsuit.
AT & T's argument is contrary to the express language of the notice
statute. Plaintiffs (or their predecessor) were not required to provide notice
before filing the original or first amended complaints because they did not
seek damages under the CLRA in those complaints. Thus, as stated in Civil Code
section 1782, subdivision (d), no notice was required. Moreover, that statute
contemplates that a consumer may amend a complaint for injunctive relief to add
a request for damages under the CLRA. Indeed, the statute expressly allows such
an amendment, as long as it is done 30 days or more after filing of the
original complaint and compliance with the notice requirement. (Civ. Code, § 1782,
subd. (d).)”


(Morgan, 177
Cal.App.4th at p. 1260.)
 
            Morgan’s construction
of Subdivision (d) supports Plaintiff’s basis for amendment.  Defendant does not address Morgan
or provide any contrary authority.[2]  Plaintiff is entitled to leave to file the
proposed Second Amended Complaint.  
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The motion is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve its First Amended Complaint
within 20 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   April 10, 2024                                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


