..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24PSCV03196
Plaintiff's Name: Georgia McCaffrey
Defendant's Name: Efrain Rangel, Maria Rangel, and Edward Rangel
People-Names: Georgia McCaffrey, Efrain Rangel, Maria Rangel, Edward Rangel, Carmen Gomez
Company-Names: Merril Lynch, Bun N Burger
Places: Covina, La Verne, West Covina
Dates: 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024
Events: Conversion, Financial Elder Abuse, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Common Counts
Money: $90,000, $15,000
Intentions: Financial Elder Abuse, Wrongful Use
Facts: Georgia McCaffrey hired Edward Rangel as a bus boy/host, Edward Rangel was fired, Edward Rangel broke into McCaffrey's house, McCaffrey discovered missing cash and jewelry
Disputes: Georgia McCaffrey vs. Efrain Rangel, Maria Rangel, and Edward Rangel
Acts: Attachment, Writ of Attachment, Temporary Protective Order
Agreements: Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (EADACPA), Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657.01
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure (CCP), Welfare and Institutions Code
Case Citations: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 480.090, subd. (a); Santa Clara Waste Water Co. v. Allied World National Assurance Co. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 881; Lydig Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937
Statutes: Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.27, Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30, subd. (a), Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657.01
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements:
- The court finds that McCaffrey's application fails on all grounds as it does not allege a cause of action for financial elder abuse against Efrain and Maria Rangel.
- The court concludes that the only evidence supporting McCaffrey's claim that Edward Rangel stole cash and jewelry from McCaffrey's La Verne residence is either hearsay or inadmissible.
- The court finds that the circumstantial evidence presented by McCaffrey does not support a reasonable inference that Edward Rangel was responsible for taking the missing cash and jewelry from McCaffrey's residence.
- The court DENIES McCaffrey's application for a writ of attachment.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge denies the plaintiff's application for a writ of attachment, an order for issuance of a writ of attachment, and a temporary protective order. The plaintiff, Georgia McCaffrey, claims that the defendants, Efrain Rangel, Maria Rangel, and Edward Rangel, are responsible for converting her property and committing financial elder abuse. However, the court finds that the plaintiff has failed to establish the probable validity of her claims. The court concludes that the only evidence supporting the plaintiff's claims is either hearsay or inadmissible, and that the circumstantial evidence presented by the plaintiff does not support a reasonable inference that the defendants were responsible for taking the missing cash and jewelry from the plaintiff's residence. Therefore, the court denies the plaintiff's application.
