 Case Number:  24PSCV01297    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Lina Arboleda
Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s
Motion to Strike Prayer for Punitive Damages and Attorneys Fees of the First
Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Lina Arboleda
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike Prayer for Punitive Damages and Attorney’s Fees of the
First Amended Complaint are CONTINUED to a date to be
determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Defendant
Miguel Sahagun’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiff Lina
Arboleda’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to file a
supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for conversion. On February 2, 2024, Defendant Miguel Sahagun
obtained a default judgment in an unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff
Lina Arboleda with regards to a property in El Monte. On February 21, 2024,
Arboleda quit possession of the El Monte property following a lockout by the
sheriff. Subsequently, Arboleda alleges Sahagun has refused to turn over the
possession of Arboleda’s personal property that was left at the El Monte
property. Instead, Sahagun has allegedly demanded Arboleda pay Sahagun money or
sign a waiver of Arboleda’s right to sue.
On
April 23, 2024, Arboleda filed a complaint against Sahagun and Does 1-15,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1983 to 1987, (2) civil extortion, (3) trespass to conversion, and (4)
trespass to chattels.
On
August 27, 2024, Arboleda filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the
same defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1983 to 1987, (2) attempted civil extortion, (3)
trespass to conversion, and (4) trespass to chattels.
On September
30, 2024, Sahagun filed the present demurrer. On October 7, 2024, Sahagun filed
the present motion to strike. A hearing on the present motions is set for
October 28, 2024, along with a case management conference on November 14, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Sahagun
demurs to Arboleda’s entire FAC. For the following reasons,
the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), prior to filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section further provides
that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action
that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
While
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) makes clear failing
to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer, courts “are not
required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and if the court
determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes further
conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains discretion
to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward
reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to
continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn. 3.)
Discussion
In this case, Sahagun’s counsel filed a
declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and confer through email
correspondence with Arboleda’s counsel. Because emails are not the proper means
of meeting and conferring and counsel fails to describe any attempt at telephonic
communication, the court finds these meet and confer attempts to be inadequate.
Accordingly, the court finds a continuance of the hearing on Sahagun’s demurrer
and motion to strike is appropriate.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Sahagun’s demurrer and motion to strike are CONTINUED to a date
to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona). Sahagun’s counsel is also ordered to
meet and confer with Arboleda’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and Motion to
Strike and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer
efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing.