 Case Number:  24STCP00712    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  26   
 Medline
Industries, LP v. Gente Health Partners, LLC, et al.MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT
(CCP § 187)
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Judgment Creditor Medline Industries, LP’s Motion to Amend Judgment is
GRANTED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff Medline Industries, LP
(“Judgment Creditor”)
filed the instant application for entry of sister-state judgment against
Defendant Gente Health Partners, LLC (“Judgment Debtor”). Judgment was entered
against Judgment Debtor on the same date.
 
On October 2, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed
the instant motion to amend the judgment. No opposition has been filed to date.

 
 
Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor moves pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 187 to change Judgment Debtor’s name from “Gente Health
Partners, LLC” to “Gente Health Partners, LLC, a California corporation.” When
judgment was obtained initially against Judgment Debtor in Chicago, Illinois,
Judgment Debtor’s corporate form was not included in its name. (Motion, Booska
Decl., ¶2.) As a result, the Application for Entry of Sister State Judgment
filed in this action, and resulting judgment entered on March 8, 2024 also did
not include Judgment Debtor’s corporate form. 
 
“Under section 187, the trial court
is authorized to amend a judgment to add additional judgment debtors.... As a
general rule, ‘a court may amend its judgment at any time so that the judgment
will properly designate the real defendants.’.... Judgments may be amended to
add additional judgment debtors on the ground that a person or entity is the
alter ego of the original judgment debtor.... ‘Amendment of a judgment to add
an alter ego “is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is
not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the
correct name of the real defendant...
 
(Greenspan v. LADT, LLC
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508 [citing Hall, Goodhue, Haisley & Barker,
Inc. v. Marconi Conf. Center Bd. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1554-1555].)
This reasoning also applies to successor corporations. (McClellan v.
Northridge Park  Townhome Owners
Association., Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 753-754.) 
 
Judgment Creditor moves to amend the judgment on
the grounds that if the corporate form of the Judgment Debtor is not included, sheriffs
in California cannot conduct any post-judgment remedies. (Motion, Booska Decl.,
¶2.) Therefore, if the judgment is not amended, Judgment Creditor will be unable to collect on
the judgment against Judgment Debtor. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foreoing, Judgment
Creditor Medline Industries, LP’s Motion
to Amend Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 