  Case Number:  20STCV45192    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES   DEPARTMENT 72   TENTATIVE  RULING   

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

 




JEFFREY QIUHONG YANG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GLOBAL WIN CAPITAL CORPORATION, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV45192
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 11, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1




 

 

 

Defendant and Cross-Complainant Global Win Capital
Corporation (“Defendant”) for issue sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and
monetary sanctions in the amount of $46,242.15 against Plaintiff Jeffrey
Qiuhong Yang (“Plaintiff”).

 

The Court DENIES Defendant’s requests for issue and
evidentiary sanctions as MOOT.

 

The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
in the amount of $39,924.09. 

 

Background

 

Plaintiff is Defendant’s former Chief Financial Officer.
Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for his whistleblower
complaints. Defendant alleges that it terminated Plaintiff for incurring
unapproved unreasonable business expenses.

 

On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit against
Defendant, stating claims for whistleblower retaliation and wrongful
termination. Plaintiff seeks, among other remedies, back and front pay damages.

 

On January 15, 2021, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff. The operative cross-complaint is now the First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which alleges that Plaintiff committed fraud and
incurred unreasonable business expenses.

 

On December 14, 2023, the Court reopened fact discovery
through April 15, 2024 for the limited purpose of seeking supplemental information
and documents regarding Plaintiff’s post-termination employment, compensation,
and benefits by way of the following:

 

1. Defendant shall
be permitted to serve a demand on Plaintiff to supplement his responses and
production to Request for Production Nos. 120, 135, and 136, Special
Interrogatories Nos. 11 through 17, and Form Interrogatory—Employment No. 210.6
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.050 and 2030.070;

2. Defendant shall
be permitted to seek to compel Plaintiff to comply with his prior agreement to
permit the inspection of documents responsive to Request for Production No. 120
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.320; and

3. Defendant shall
be permitted to serve Plaintiff’s current employer, Amcor, with a subpoena
seeking Plaintiff’s personnel and payroll records dating back to May 2018 and
October 2019.

 

The Court based this order in part on the fact that
Plaintiff had failed to produce almost any compensation records from his new
job, despite having indicated that he was in fact employed at Amcor and earning
money there.

 

Plaintiff subsequently produced payroll records for Amcor
from January 2020 to December 2023, but did not provide documents or
information relating to stock options that he stated in his deposition that he
had received, nor did Plaintiff produce any documents reflecting his long-term
incentive benefits plan with Amcor, which Plaintiff’s expert claimed he needed
in order to evaluate Plaintiff’s damages. Defendant also objected that
Plaintiff’s payroll records did not appear to include all the allowances and benefits
that Plaintiff received.

 

On March 12, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to
compel further production, ordering Defendant to send Plaintiff a letter
indicating what discovery items it still needed from him. The Court ordered
that Plaintiff produce those items provide a declaration, under penalty of
perjury, indicating that the requested items did not exist.

 

Despite the Court’s order, Plaintiff provided neither
documents nor declaration as to a number of items, including the amounts of
certain bonus awards and incentive plans he benefited from. The parties engaged
in a meet-and-confer process regarding the discovery.

 

On April 16, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for
sanctions. 

 

On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff withdrew his claim for back pay
from the February 1, 2020, the date he took the job at Amcor.

 

Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 3, 2024 and Defendant
filed a reply on May 9, 2024.

 

On May 16, 2024, the Court permitted additional briefing on
the rates and hours for Defendant’s fee request. Plaintiff filed a response on
May 28, 204 and Defendant filed a supplemental reply on June 3, 2024.

 

Legal Standard

 

Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        

 

Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a).) 

 

Issue sanctions may be imposed “ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim
of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The
court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (b).) 

 

Evidence sanctions may be imposed “by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (c).) 

 

Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. Id. at 788.) 

 

Discussion

 

Issue Sanctions

 

Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claim for damages beginning on
the date he started employment at Amcor moots the motion as to issue and
evidentiary sanctions. 

 

Monetary Sanctions

 

However, the Court finds that there is good cause to issue
monetary sanctions.

 

            Plaintiff’s
compensation at Amcor has now been the subject of three discovery motions in
this case, concluding with Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claim for damages
following his hiring at Amcor. Plaintiff repeatedly failed to produce documents
regarding various forms of compensation – documents that he, as an employee at
Amcor, would have a right to obtain. Plaintiff’s compensation records would
have been critical to the evaluation of Plaintiff’s damages, including by
Plaintiff’s own expert. Plaintiff’s argument that he had only recently come
into possession of the documents in question is unavailing. Plaintiff knew that
Defendant would request documents on his compensation following Defendant’s motion
to reopen discovery, and knew of the specific categories of documents that
would be requested. By the time Plaintiff withdrew his claim, he had had over a
month after the Court granted the motion to compel in which to provide
employment documents that he has provided no reason to believe were not readily
available to him.  Moreover, Plaintiff
failed to comply with the Court’s order by March 20, 2024, the date compliance
was due.

 

            At
the prior hearing, Plaintiff made a lengthy argument that monetary sanctions
for violation of a court order were no longer permitted under City of Los
Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, review
granted January 25, 2023, S277211. 
The Court does not recall Plaintiff bringing to the Court’s attention the
important fact that review of this case had been granted by the California
Supreme Court. This means that the case is not binding authority.  (California Rules of Court 8.1105, 8.1115.)   Moreover, Plaintiff’s failure to mention that
review had been granted constitutes a violation of the California Rules of
Court, which explicitly states:  “Any
citation to the Court of Appeal opinion must also note the grant of review. . .
. ”  (California Rule of Court 8.115,
subdivision (e)(1).)  Yang also cited
this case in its original papers opposing sanctions, and (again in violation of
the California Rules of Court) failed to note that review was granted. To the
contrary, Plaintiff called this precedent a “controlling case” (Yang’s 5/3/2024
Opp. at 10:14-17) when, because of the undisclosed grant of review, the case is
not controlling. Fundamentally, Plaintiff’s heavy reliance on the case without
informing the Court that review had been granted was an unreasonable waste of
the Court’s resources, both at the prior oral argument and in requiring the
Court to chase down this information on its own after the hearing.  In all events, the Court does not read the Court
of Appeal decision in City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers,
supra, as undoing the well-established principle that a trial court may
award monetary sanctions when a party like Yang violates a court order. (See
Civ. Proc. Code § 2031.310, subdivision (i) [court may impose monetary sanction
for failure to obey an order compelling further response to production demand],
2031.320, subdivision (c) [same for failure to obey court order to permit copying
in response to a demand for inspection].)

 

            Plaintiff
also failed to comply with the Court’s order relating to additional briefing.
The Court  requested additional briefing
so that it could determine whether the amount of the fee award was appropriate,
not whether fees should be awarded at all. 
Nevertheless, Yang offered arguments in his supplemental briefing that
the sanctions should not be awarded at all. 
While Plaintiff did not repeat his reliance on City of Los Angeles
v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, supra, he made a new but equally unpersuasive
argument. Yang now argues that Defendant may not seek fees associated with the
sanctions motion because Defendant supposedly suffered no prejudice.  Yang relies on Morgan v. Ransom (1979)
95 Cal.App.3d 664.  This case is entirely
inapposite, as it related to a terminating sanctions and not monetary
sanctions. Here, Defendant suffered a concrete form of prejudice. Because of Yang’s
violation of the Court’s order, Defendant incurred fees it never should have
had to incur.

 

Plaintiff argues that no fees should be awarded on
Defendant’s motion for sanctions itself. 
Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, such fees are recoverable.  (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit
Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 794–795.)

 

Amount of Sanctions

 

The moving party bears the burden of proof as to
“reasonableness” of any fee claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(5).)
The party seeking fees has the burden of documenting the appropriate hours
expended and hourly rates. (City of Colton v. Singletary (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 751, 784.) This burden requires competent evidence as to the nature
and value of the services rendered. (Martino v. Denevi (1986) 182
Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) A plaintiff’s verified billing invoices are prima
facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services listed were necessarily
incurred. (Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682.) 

 

“In challenging attorney fees as excessive because too many
hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to point
to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and citations to
the evidence. General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative,
or unrelated do not suffice.” (Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 459, 488, quoting Premier Med. Mgmt. Sys., Inc. v. California
Ins. Guarantee Ass’n (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.) When items are
properly objected to, the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as
costs. (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623-624.)

 

            Defendant
requests $46,242.15 in attorney’s fees.

 

            Defendant
requests hourly rates of $1,190 for Melanie Walker, $973.25 for Andrea Ortega,
and $1,032.75 for Akhil Sheth. The Court finds these rates to be reasonable.

 

            Defendant
provides the billing sheet giving rise to its fees in a declaration attached to
its reply brief. (Supp. Decl. Walker ¶ 7, Ex. 3.) Given the lengthy
meet-and-confer process and the unusual nature of the issue and evidentiary
sanctions which Defendant sought prior to Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claim,
the Court is generally inclined to find that Defendant’s counsels’ time
expenditures were reasonable.

            

            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant cannot recover fees for time spent drafting the
evidentiary and issue sanction portions of the motion because those portions of
the motion were mooted by Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claims. The Court
disagrees. Plaintiff did not withdraw his claims until after the motion was
filed. Defendant’s counsel’s work on the issue and evidentiary sanctions
arguments was therefore still necessitated by Plaintiff’s discovery conduct,
even if Plaintiff’s later conduct resolved the need for the sanctions.

 

            The
Court does find that some of Defendant’s time entries are duplicative. The
Court reduces Ortega’s hours by 4.9, for a reduction of $4,768.93. The Court
reduces Sheth’s hours by 1.5, for a reduction of $1,549.13. This leads to a
total reduction of $6,318.06.

 

            The
Court therefore awards $39,924.09 in attorney’s fees.

     JEFFREY QIUHONG YANG,                                      Plaintiff,             v.     GLOBAL WIN CAPITAL CORPORATION, et    al.,                                     Defendants.      Case No:     20STCV45192            Hearing Date:  June 11, 2024  Calendar Number:  1          Plaintiff Jeffrey Qiuhong Yang (“Plaintiff”) moves to quash  the Letter of Request issued to Amcor Singapore PTE LTD (“Amcor Singapore”) at  the request of Defendant and Cross-Complainant Global Win Capital Corporation  (“Defendant”).   The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion as to the portions of  the letter of request that pertain to Plaintiff’s job application and offer  letter.   The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion as to the remaining  portions of the letter of request.   The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for attorney fees in  the amount of $8,000.00.   Background   Plaintiff is Defendant’s former Chief Financial Officer.  Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for his whistleblower  complaints. Defendant alleges that it terminated Plaintiff for incurring  unapproved unreasonable business expenses.   On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit against  Defendant, stating claims for whistleblower retaliation and wrongful  termination. Plaintiff seeks, among other remedies, back and front pay damages.   On January 15, 2021, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint  against Plaintiff. The operative cross-complaint is now the First Amended  Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which alleges that Plaintiff committed fraud and  incurred unreasonable business expenses.   On December 14, 2023, the Court reopened fact discovery  through April 15, 2024 for the limited purpose of seeking supplemental  information and documents regarding Plaintiff’s post-termination employment,  compensation, and benefits by way of the following:   1. Defendant shall  be permitted to serve a demand on Plaintiff to supplement his responses and  production to Request for Production Nos. 120, 135, and 136, Special  Interrogatories Nos. 11 through 17, and Form Interrogatory—Employment No. 210.6  pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.050 and 2030.070; 2. Defendant shall  be permitted to seek to compel Plaintiff to comply with his prior agreement to  permit the inspection of documents responsive to Request for Production No. 120  pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.320; and 3. Defendant shall  be permitted to serve Plaintiff’s current employer, Amcor, with a subpoena  seeking Plaintiff’s personnel and payroll records dating back to May 2018 and  October 2019.   The Court based this order in part on the fact that  Plaintiff had failed to produce almost any compensation records from his new  job, despite having indicated that he was in fact employed at Amcor and earning  money there.   Plaintiff subsequently produced payroll records for Amcor  from January 2020 to December 2023, but did not provide documents or  information relating to stock options that he stated in his deposition that he  had received, nor did Plaintiff produce any documents reflecting his long-term  incentive benefits plan with Amcor, which Plaintiff’s expert claimed he needed  in order to evaluate Plaintiff’s damages. Defendant also objected that  Plaintiff’s payroll records did not appear to include all the allowances and benefits  that Plaintiff received.   On March 12, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to  compel further production, ordering Defendant to send Plaintiff a letter  indicating what discovery items it still needed from him. The Court ordered  that Plaintiff produce those items provide a declaration, under penalty of  perjury, indicating that the requested items did not exist.   Despite the Court’s order, Plaintiff provided neither  documents nor declaration as to a number of items, including the amounts of  certain bonus awards and incentive plans he benefited from. The parties engaged  in an extensive meet-and-confer process regarding the discovery. A sanctions  motion related to those documents is pending before the Court.   On December 21, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with a  Notice to Consumer or Employee and Objection, attaching a Deposition Subpoena  for Production of Business Records that Defendant intended to serve on Amcor  Singapore PTE LTD (“Amcor Singapore”) and Amcor Packaging (Shanghai) Company  Ltd. (“Amcor Shanghai”). Defendant sent the subpoenas to Amcor’s affiliate in  North America, but received no response.   On February 20, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte  to submit Letters of Request for International Judicial Assistance to the  Ministry of Justice of China and the Registrar of the Supreme Court of  Singapore. The letters were sent on February 24, 2024.   On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff withdrew his claim for back pay  from the February 1, 2020, the date he took the job at Amcor.   Plaintiff filed motions to quash each of the letters of  request. Defendant agreed to withdraw the letter of request to Amcor Shanghai  in exchange for Plaintiff’s withdrawal of the Amcor Shanghai motion to quash.  Defendant offered to reduce the scope of the Amcor Singapore letter, limiting  the request to Yang’s employment application and offer letter from Amcor  Singapore. The parties were not able to reach an agreement on the Amcor  Singapore motion.   Legal Standard   If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the  production of documents, the court may, upon motion reasonably made, make an  order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance  with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including  protective orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)   In making an order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the  reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the  requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd.  (a).)     Discussion   Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to give notice of the  letters request.   “Prior to the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum  for the production of personal records, the subpoenaing party shall  serve or cause to be served on the consumer whose records are being sought a  copy of the subpoena duces tecum, of the affidavit supporting the issuance of  the subpoena, if any, and of the notice described in subdivision (e), and proof  of service as indicated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 1985.3, subd. (b) [emphasis added].)   Defendant is not the issuing party of the letter of request  – such a letter may only be issued by a tribunal in the United States. (28  U.S.C., § 1781, subd. (a)(2).) Plaintiff appears to argue that Defendant  contended in the ex parte application that the letter issued from the party.  The Court did not rely on any such assertion in granting the ex parte, and  would not rely on such an assertion now, as it is contrary to the wording of  the statute.   Further, Plaintiff had notice of the letter request, and in  fact briefed the issue for the ex parte hearing. Defendant filed the ex parte  application on February 7, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on the same day.  The hearing was held on February 20, 2024. Plaintiff had an opportunity to  object, and did so.   Defendant has therefore complied with the notice  requirements.   Plaintiff argues that the requests violate his privacy  rights, are overbroad, and seek information that is not relevant to this  action. The Court rejected these arguments in granting the initial application.   The request as to Plaintiff’s  application and offer letter is relevant. For example, Defendant is entitled to  discover the starting dates that Plaintiff was offered, which go to mitigation  if Plaintiff delayed his start date. Plaintiff has withdrawn his damages claims  running from his start date at Amcor, but not before. The requested information  therefore remains relevant.   The Court denies  Plaintiff’s motion as to the portions of the letter of request that pertain to  Plaintiff’s job application and offer letter. The Court grants Plaintiff’s  motion as to the remaining portions of the letter of request.   Sanctions   Defendant offered  to withdraw the letter of request as to the portions of the letter that do not  pertain to Plaintiff’s job application and offer letter. The Court agrees with  the parties that those portions are not necessary. As stated above, the Court agrees  that the job application and offer letter are relevant. This motion therefor  was not necessary. The Court awards sanctions as requested by Defendant.    Defendant requests an hourly rate of $1,190.00 for Melanie  Walker and a rate of $1,032.75 for Akhil Sheth. The Court finds these rates to  be reasonable.    Walker avers that Defendant has incurred over $8,000.00 in  fees in opposing this motion. Because such an expenditure would take between  6.72 and 7.75 hours, the Court finds that expenditure to be reasonable.    The Court grants Defendant’s request for attorney fees in  the amount of $8,000.00.