 Case Number:  23STCV31080    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JESSE VARGAS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PQM, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV31080
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 11, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendants Erin Hoy, Zale Harris (collectively, the
“Individual Defendants”), and PQM, Inc. (“PQM”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
demur to the first, second, third, eighth, eleventh, and fourteenth claims in
the First Amendment Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Jesse Vargas
(“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third and
eleventh claims WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff shall have 15 days to amend his
complaint.
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the remaining claims.
 
Background
 
This is an employment case. The following facts are taken
from the allegations in the FAC, except where otherwise noted.
 
Plaintiff was employed with PQM as an inspector on public
works projects form 2021 until his termination on January 26, 2022. Plaintiff
is a Hispanic man and is over 40 years old. Defendant Hoy, PQM’s manager and
owner, and Defendant Harris, Plaintiff’s manager, are both Caucasian women.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants wrongfully accused him of
committing a crime based on the perception that he was a ‘gang member’ of a
Latino ‘motorcycle gang’ and based on his age, race, ethnicity, color, gender, disability
status, family status, and association with others. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants discriminated against, harassed, and wrongfully terminated him.
 
The primary basis for these allegations is that Harris and
Hoy attributed a threatening call that Harris received on January 25, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges that the Individual Defendants wrongfully assumed that the
call was from Plaintiff because of their perception that he was a member of a
Latino ‘motorcycle gang.’ Hoy asked for Plaintiff’s resignation on that day.
Plaintiff denied that he had made the call and refused to resign until
Defendants fully investigated the claim.
 
On January 26, 2022, Plaintiff met with Defendants again.
Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment, effective January 28, 2022.
 
Plaintiff alleges that prior to his employment, Plaintiff
and PQM entered a written and verbal contract (the “Pre-Employment Contract”) whereby
PQM agreed that Plaintiff would be treated fairly, that he would be provided a
safe and fair workplace, that he would be provided with the leave that he was
entitled to under the law, and that he would be evaluated for accommodation and
accommodated.
 
Plaintiff alleges that, after his termination, PQM agreed to
an express written settlement (the “Settlement”) with Plaintiff on November 25,
2022. Plaintiff returned and signed the Settlement to PQM. Plaintiff alleges
that PQM breached the Settlement by failing to make payments to Plaintiff that
were due beginning in December 2022.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on December 20, 2023, raising
claims for (1) breach of express written contract; (2) breach of implied
contract; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4)
wrongful termination; (5) discrimination; (6) retaliation in violation of FEHA
and CFRA; (7) harassment; (8) violation of Labor Code sections 230, et seq.;
(9) retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5; (10) violation of Labor Code,
section 1198.5; (11) fraudulent inducement; (12) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (“IIED”); (13) negligence; (14) violation of Civil Code
sections 51, et seq. (the Unruh Civil Rights Act and Ralph Act), and 52.1 (the
Bane Act); and (15) unfair competition in violation of Business and Professions
Code, section 17200.
 
On March 19, 2024, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
to the thirteenth claim without leave to amend and the first, second, third,
seventh, eighth, eleventh, twelfth, and fourteenth claims with leave to amend.
The Court overruled the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, ninth, tenth, and
fifteenth causes of action.
 
The operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims
for (1) breach of express written contract; (2) breach of implied contract; (3)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4) wrongful
termination; (5) discrimination; (6) retaliation in violation of FEHA and CFRA;
(7) harassment; (8) violation of Labor Code sections 230, et seq.; (9)
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5; (10) violation of Labor Code,
section 1198.5; (11) fraudulent inducement; (12) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (“IIED”); (13) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; (14) violation of Civil Code sections 51, et seq. (the Unruh Civil
Rights Act and Ralph Act), and 52.1 (the Bane Act); and (15) unfair competition
in violation of Business and Professions Code, section 17200.
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Breach of express written contract – First Claim
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)

 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman
& Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a
plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
 
Plaintiff has set forth the key terms of the Settlement in
the FAC. (FAC at p. 10:26-11:14.) Although Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
not alleged mutual assent, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he parties entered into a
confidential settlement, which was further memorialized in a written Settlement
Agreement. Defendant drafted a written agreement with the following terms:
Defendants would pay Plaintiff a confidential settlement sum, Plaintiff would
release his claims.” (FAC at p, 10:26-11:1.)
 
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants failed to make
payments under the Settlement, resulting in damages to Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff has therefore adequately alleged a breach of
contract claim as to the Settlement.
 
Plaintiff has adequately alleged the key terms of his
employment contract. Plaintiff alleges that the parties entered a verbal
contract, which was then formalized in writing. Plaintiff alleges that a
material term was that Plaintiff would not report to Harris. 
 
Defendants argue that the person to whom an employee reports
could not be a material term because “it does not go to the essence of
bargaining.” (Demurrer at p. 9:18-20.) It is unclear what Defendant means by
this. In any event, the reporting structure of a job can be a material term. An
employee may seek certain freedoms or support networks as part of the job
structure that the employee is entering. Who manages the employee, and how,
inherently tie into the terms and conditions of employment.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot allege damages
because Harris’s alleged harassment was not contemplated by the employment
contract. Such a defect is not clear from the face of the FAC. A prospective
employee may well seek out certain management structures because they are
concerned about the potential conduct of their managers.
 
The Court does not reach Defendants’ remaining arguments
against specific provisions or aspects of damages, because a demurrer cannot
split a cause of action.
 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Breach of implied contract – Second Claim
 
Defendants do not make a separate argument against this
claim. Reading Defendants’ arguments generously, it appears that Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing a departure from at-will
employment. However, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants promised Plaintiff
that he would remain employed with them if he remained in Defendants’ employ
during the publicly-declared COVD-related emergency. Plaintiff has therefore
alleged facts sufficient to support an implied contract.
 
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants breached this contract
by terminating his employment.
 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing – Third Claim
 
“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it
has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken
judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the
allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and,
relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief
already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be
disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated … [T]he
only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied
covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.”
(Id. at p. 1395 [citations and
italics omitted].)
 
Plaintiff has not identified factual allegations that go
beyond the mere breach of contract discussed above. Plaintiff merely states
that Defendants’ “intent to frustrate the contracts” is different. (Opposition
at p. 5:22-24.)
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Labor Code sections 230, et seq. – Eighth Claim
 
Labor Code, section 230 prohibits employers from
discriminating or retaliating against employees for taking time off to serve on
a jury, appear as a witness in court, or seek injunctive relief such as a
temporary restraining order. (Lab. Code, § 230.) It also prohibits
discrimination against an employee on the basis that they are the victim of abuse
or a crime. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff has alleged that Harriss committed a hate crime
against him by stalking him and falsely accusing him of a crime based on his
race. (FAC at p. 22: 3-9, 33:20-25.) Plaintiff alleges that he reported this to
Defendant. (FAC at p. 26:13-15.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants terminated
him on this basis. (FAC at p. 27:15-24.)
 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this cause of action.
 
Fraudulent inducement – Eleventh Claim
 
“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for
fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant represented that the
contents of his employment offer were true, but later breached the employment
agreement.
 
“A promise of future conduct is actionable as fraud only if
made without a present intent to perform.” (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 481.) “Moreover, something more than nonperformance
is required to prove the defendant's intent not to perform his promise. [I]f
plaintiff adduces no further evidence of fraudulent intent than proof of
nonperformance of an oral promise, [the plaintiff] will never reach a jury.” (Ibid
[citation and quotation marks omitted; cleaned up].)
 
Plaintiff has not alleged a lack of intent to perform.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this cause of action with
leave to amend.
 
Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act and Bane Act – Fourteenth Claim
 
The elements of a claim for
violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act are (1) defendant is a business
establishment, (2) defendant intentionally denied plaintiff accommodations,
advantages, privileges, facilities, or services, (3) defendant was motivated to
do so based on its perception that plaintiff belonged to a statutorily defined
group, (4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Civ. Code, § 51; In re Cox (1970) 3 Cal.3d 205, 216.) “The objective of the Act is
to prohibit businesses from engaging in unreasonable, arbitrary or invidious
discrimination. Therefore, the Act applies not merely in situations where
businesses exclude individuals altogether, but also where treatment is unequal.”
(Pizarro v. Lamb’s Players Theatre (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1174, citations omitted.)
 
The elements of a claim for violations of the Tom Bane Civil
Rights Act are (1) the defendant interfered with or attempted to interfere with
the plaintiff’s constitutional or statutory rights by threatening or committing
violent acts; (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed that if he or she exercised
his or her constitutional rights the defendant would commit violence against
him or her or his or her property, or the defendant injured the plaintiff or
his or her property to prevent him or her from exercising his or her
constitutional rights or retaliated against the plaintiff for having exercised
his or her constitutional rights; (3) the plaintiff was harmed; and (4) the
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.
(Civ. Code, § 52.1; Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist., supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p. 882.)
 
“The Unruh Civil Rights Act has no application to employment
discrimination.” (Rojo v. Kliger (1990) 52 Cal.3d 65, 77.) Thus,
Plaintiff cannot state a claim under the Unruh Act.
 
However, “sections 51.7 and 52.1 are not part of the Unruh
Act” and “nothing in either the language of sections 51.7 and 52.1 or in their
history expresses a legislative intent to exclude employment discrimination or
other employment cases from their ambit.” (Stamps v. Superior Court
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1456-1459.)
 
Section 51.7 (the Ralph Act) forbids “violence, or
intimidation by threat of violence” committed because of the target’s
membership in a protected category. (Civ. Code, § 51.7, subd. (b)(1).)  Section 52.1 (the Bane Act) is similarly
intended to “stem the number of hate crimes which the Legislature recognized
had grown to an alarming proportion.” (Stamps v. Superior Court, supra,
136 Cal.App.4th at 1457.)
 
The Court previously sustained a demurrer to this claim
because Plaintiff had not alleged a hate crime. Plaintiff has now alleged a
hate crime. (FAC at p. 33:20-25.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff must plead
further facts to show that he was falsely accused of a crime based on his race.
However, Plaintiff need not plead evidentiary facts at the pleading stage –
ultimate facts are sufficient.