 Case Number:  24SMCV02245    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 14, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02245




MOTION


Motion for Protective Order/Motion to Quash




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Radford Studio Center, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Joanne Osorio-Wu, individually and as
  successor-in-interest to the Estate of Juan Carlos Osorio; and Zoila Osorio



 
MOTION
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs Joanne Osorio-Wu, individually and as
successor-in-interest to The Estate of Juan Carlos Osorio (“Osorio-Wu”) and
Zoila Osorio (“Osorio”) (together, “Plaintiffs”), the wife and mother,
respectively, of decedent Juan Carlos Osorio, filed suit against Defendant
Radford Studio Center, LLC (“Defendant” or “Radford”) alleging two causes of
action for (1) wrongful death and (2) premises liability.  
 
Defendant Radford Studio Center, LLC (“Defendant”) now moves for a
protective order concerning Plaintiffs’ subpoenas to third parties Marvel
Studios LLC and the Walt Disney Company, or in the alternative, for an order
quashing those subpoenas.
 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Protective Order
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (a),
“before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other
affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective
order.” 
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Pro. §
2025.420, subd. (b).)  Section 2025.420,
subdivision (b), provides a nonexclusive list of directions that may be
included in a protective order, including orders directing that the deposition
may not be taken at all, that the deposition be taken at a different time, or
that it be taken only on certain specified terms and conditions. Further, “[a] party
seeking the protective order must show by a preponderance of the evidence that
the issuance of a protective order is proper.” (Stadish v. Superior Court
(1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have requested through the subject subpoenas as
follows:
 
1. Any and all DOCUMENTS regarding, relating or referring to
inspection of the SUBJECT PREMISES; 
 
2. Any and all DOCUMENTS regarding, relating or referring to
inspection of Stage 3; 
 
3. Any and all DOCUMENTS regarding, relating or referring to the
SUBJECT INCIDENT; and 
 
4. Any and all correspondence between YOU and Defendant regarding
Stage 3.
 
            Defendant requests the first two
requests be modified as follows:
 
Any and all DOCUMENTS regarding, relating or referring to referring to
inspection of Stage 3 for a three year period prior to the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
 
            Defendant also requests the fourth
request be modified as follows:
 
Any and all correspondence between YOU and Defendant regarding
maintenance and/or operations within Stage 3 in connection with the production
of the miniseries, Wonder Man, for a three-year period prior to the SUBJECT
INCIDENT.
 
            Defendant contends that Plaintiffs’
subpoenas for the requested documents are overbroad and unduly burdensome to
Marvel and Disney.
 
            In particular, Defendant argues the
requests are overbroad because they are unlimited in time, and include records
after the incident, and because they are also not limited to Stage 3, where the
incident occurred, but rather seek inspection records for the entire
premises.  The Court disagrees that
documents concerning inspections of the subject premises that occurred after
the incident are not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  
 
Further, the defects in the catwalk on stage 3 (and potentially other
areas of the subject property) are not limited to the time frame immediately
surrounding the incident.  Historical
records of defects may be equally relevant to determining prior knowledge and
potential culpability.  Moreover,
Plaintiffs argue in opposition that as part of the meet and confer process,
they have already voluntarily agreed to limit the scope of production to seven
years, which is designed to encompass the inspections that occurred prior to
production beginning and once production ended, especially in light of the fact
that COVID and the writer’s strike caused the studios to shut down production
for extended periods of time.
 
             “The objection based upon burden must be
sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required, while to support an
objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an intent to
create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the burden is
incommensurate with the result sought.” 
(West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407,
417.)  The California Supreme Court
further noted that  “[s]ome burden is
inherent in all demands for discovery. 
The objection of burden is valid only when that burden is demonstrated
to result in injustice.” (Id. at p. 418.)   
 
            Here, Defendant argues, without any
supporting evidence, that the requests require searching “a massive scope of
potential documents.”  Further, the Court
notes that neither Marvel nor Disney has produced any evidence demonstrating
burden.  In fact, Plaintiff argues in
opposition that Marvel has expressly agreed to produce the requested
documents.  As such, Defendant has not
met its burden of proof to demonstrate that it would be unduly burdensome for
Marvel and/or Disney to produce the documents as requested.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Defendant’s motion for a protective order or to quash the subpoenas Plaintiff
propounded on third parties Marvel and Disney and orders Marvel and Disney to
comply with the subpoenas within 30 days of notice of this order, or any other
such time as Plaintiffs agree to in writing.
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
DATED:
January 14, 2025                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court