 Case Number:  24SMCV01618    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  14, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01618




MOTION


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Hesam
  Yazdanpanah of Law Offices of Hess Panah & Associates




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Hesam Yazdanpanah, Esq. of Law
Offices of Hess Panah & Associates, counsel for Plaintiff
Lorene Saner (“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel, citing a lack of
communication from the client.  The
motion is unopposed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in litigation,
or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of harassing or
maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053.  The attorney
declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent
because “There has been no communication with the client.  She has failed to respond to our phone calls
and communications.  We have been unable
to make any contact with her.”  (MC-052
at ¶ 2.)  As such, the Court finds that
the motion complies with the Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            The proofs of service indicate that
the client was served by mail with the required forms. The only Defendant named
in the action is in default, and as such, no service on Defendant is required.[1]  The attorney declaration further indicates
that Counsel has been unable to confirm the client’s address is current despite
mailing the motion papers to the address, calling the client’s last known
telephone number, and using skip tracing to find the client’s last known
address, driver’s license and date of birth. 
(MC-052, ¶ 3.)  Therefore, the
motion is also procedurally proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, having found the Motion both procedurally and substantively
proper, the Court Grants Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
Counsel must serve the signed order (form MC-053), which shall include
information about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any party, or
ordered by the Court, on the client and all other parties who have appeared in
the action, within 10 days of the date of this Order, and file a proof of
service of such.  Counsel will remain the
attorney of record for Plaintiff Lorene Saner until Counsel files the requisite
proof(s) of service.  (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(e).)  
 
Further, to ensure that the Court’s records are updated following the
filing of the proof(s) of service, Counsel shall contact the Court to advise
that the proof(s) of service has been filed. 
  
 
            
 
DATED:  January 14, 2025                                        ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court


