 Case Number:  24SMCV02816    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 14, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02816




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants The Residency Experience LLC and Kent Belden




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Dena Kemp, Inc.



 
MOTIONS
 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff Dena Kemp, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) brought suit
against Defendants The Residency Experience (“Residency”); Kent Belden
(“Belden”); Eric Culberson, also known as EJ King (“Culberson”); Kollin Carter
(“Carter”); Wayman Bannerman (“Bannerman); Micah McDonald (“McDonald”); and
Wayman & Micah (“Wayman & Micah”). 
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges causes of action
for (1) breach of written contract; (2) common counts; (3) conversion; and (4) promissory
fraud.  
 
As to Moving Defendants Residency and Belden (“Defendants”), Plaintiff
alleges the following:
 
·      
First Cause of Action for Breach of Written Contract
·      
Fifth Cause of Action for Goods Had and Received
·      
Ninth Cause of Action for Open Book Account
·      
Thirteenth Cause of Action for Conversion
·      
Seventeenth Cause of Action for Promissory Fraud
 
Defendants now demur to the thirteenth cause of action for conversion
and the seventeenth cause of action for promissory fraud on the grounds that
they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for
uncertainty, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions
(e) and (f), respectively.  Defendants
also move to strike allegations and claims for punitive damages from the FAC.
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendants reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Defendants bring their demurrers in part on the grounds of
uncertainty, Defendants do not make any arguments in the body of the memorandum
of points and authorities that the allegations are uncertain.  As such, Defendants do not demonstrate that
any portions of the FAC are so bad that they cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against them.  
 
Accordingly, the Court declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer on the
basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Thirteenth
Cause of Action – Conversion
 
“Conversion is generally
described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal property of
another.  The basic elements of the tort
are (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property;
(2) the defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is
inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.”  (Regent Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)
 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
12.  On or
about October 31, 2019, Dana Kemp and Residency Experience entered into a
written agreement ("2019 Agreement") under which, among other things,
in consideration of a monthly retainer payment of $5,000.00 by Dena Kemp,
Residency Experience agreed to provide services in public relations, promotion
and marketing of Dena Kemp jewelry, with an emphasis on celebrity placement of
the jewelry pieces, on a short-term rental basis, to celebrity stylists for
red-carpet events, photo shoots and celebrity guest appearances on television
and other media. The 2019 Agreement terminated by its terms on May 1, 2020 and
was not renewed in light of the pandemic and attendant lockdowns and
disruptions to business activity.
 
13.  On or
about January 14, 2021, amending and superseding the prior agreement, plaintiff
and Residency Experience entered into a new written Agreement ("Residency
Experience Agreement"), a true and correct copy of which is attached as
Exhibit 1 hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. Under the terms of
the Residency Experience Agreement, among other things, in consideration of a
monthly retainer of $5,000.00 paid to Residency Experience, it agreed, among
other things: to provide a showcase for a curated collection of Dena Kemp
jewelry; to offer a platform for celebrity placement dissemination; to
facilitate sales and rentals of Dena Kemp jewelry to celebrity clients; and to
promote the products of Dena Kemp through proactive outreach to Residency
Experience clients, social media and special events. In relevant part, the
Agreement also provides as follows: 

The Residency Experience shall immediately return all Dena Kemp merchandise,
whether in its possession or in the possession of The Residency Experience
clients or customers, to Dena Kemp, upon Dena Kemp's written demand to do so.
The Residency Experience does not have the right to hold Dena Kemp merchandise
as security for any reason nor in the event of any dispute between Dena Kemp
and The Residency Experience.
 
*  *  *  *
 
Insurance Policy:
 
The Residency Experience will insure all pieces
while in the care of The Residency Experience. Third parties pulling DENA KEMP,
for press request are liable for any costs, losses and/or damages and will sort
out directly with The Residency Experience, for the reimbursement of any
subject pieces.
 
If an employee of The Residency Experience is
negligent with handling jewelry, The Residency Experience will be responsible
to cover cost to DENA KEMP.
 
Third Party Pulls: Lost or Stolen
 
All third parties pulling DENA KEMP must sign The
Residency Experience and DENA KEMP combined "responsibility forms"
prior to The Residency Experience releasing jewelry. All third-parties pulling
DENA KEMP are responsible for lost, stolen or damaged product. Upon The
Residency Experience receiving payment from the third-party, The Residency
Experience will release payment to DENA KEMP, through an account credit, bank
wire or check.
 
Identical language appeared in the 2019
Agreement.  Plaintiff relied on Residency
Experience’s representation of insurance coverage for plaintiff’s fine jewelry
items as a material term without which plaintiff would not have entered into
the Agreement.
 
14. 
Plaintiff has performed all things required of it to be performed under
the terms of the Residency Experience Agreement, except for those items which
have been excused or justified by the acts or omissions of defendants.
 
15. 
Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that on or about
December 2, 2021, Wayman and Micah borrowed the fine jewelry items specified in
Residency Experience Delivery Note 198735 and, in connection therewith, their
agent and employee, Ynes Trabelsi, executed the standard-form Dena Kemp Memo
Agreement and the Residency Experience Fine Jewelry Responsibility Form
appended thereto. A true and correct copy of Delivery Note 198735 including the
two executed agreements appended thereto (collectively, the "Wayman and
Micah Agreement") is attached as Exhibit 2 hereto and incorporated herein
by this reference. Plaintiff is an express third-party beneficiary of the
Wayman and Micah Agreement.
 
16. 
Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that on or about
April 20, 2022, EJ King borrowed the fine jewelry items specified in Residency
Experience Delivery Note 206041 and, in connection therewith, executed the
standard-form Dena Kemp Memo Agreement and the Residency Experience Fine
Jewelry Responsibility Form appended thereto. A true and correct copy of
Delivery Note 206041 including the two executed agreements appended thereto
(collectively, the "EJ King Agreement") is attached as Exhibit 3
hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. Plaintiff is an express
third-party beneficiary of the EJ King Agreement.
 
17. 
Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that on or about
June 1, 2023, Kollin Carter borrowed the fine jewelry items specified in
Residency Experience Delivery Note 227547 and, in connection therewith, his
agent, Juan Ortiz, executed the standard-form Dena Kemp Memo Agreement and the
Residency Experience Fine Jewelry Responsibility Form appended thereto. A true
and correct copy of Delivery Note 227547 including the two executed agreements
appended thereto (collectively, the "Carter Agreement") is attached
as Exhibit 4 hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. Plaintiff is an
express thirdparty beneficiary of the Carter Agreement. 
 
18. On or about June 20, 2022, plaintiff was informed
by Stephen Ledezma, Senior Vice President of Residency Experience, that
stylists EJ King and Wayman and Micah had failed to return certain pieces of
Dena Kemp jewelry which had been lent to them by Residency Express. The retail
value of the missing pieces of jewelry was in excess of $137,000.00. 
 
19. Thereafter, commencing on September 12, 2022,
a series of communications, by telephone and by email, took place between Dena
Kemp and Residency Experience personnel in which, among other things, Dena Kemp
demanded return of all the missing pieces. On January 27, 2023, Dena Kemp
invoiced Residency Experience for the wholesale value of the missing pieces. 
 
20. On August 28, 2023, Residency Experience
informed Dena Kemp that stylist Kollin Carter had "lost" a pair of
earrings with a value of $28,000.00. The following day, Dena Kemp invoiced
Residence Experience for the value of the missing jewelry lent to Kollin
Carter. 
 
21. On October 9, 2023, by letter of the same
date, Dena Kemp again made demand on Residency Experience for return of the
missing pieces of jewelry which had been lent to EJ King, Wayman and Micah and
Carter (collectively, "the stylists"). 
 
22. Over the course of the intervening months,
certain sums have been collected from the stylists, leaving an outstanding
collective balance of $120,700.00 due, owing and unpaid from Residency
Experience to Dena Kemp.
 
23. Plaintiff is informed and believes and
thereon alleges, among other things, that: 
 
a. At no time did Residency Experience ever
intend to or did obtain the insurance required under the Residency Experience
Agreement to cover the cost of Dena Kemp jewelry which was either lost or
stolen. 
 
b. The Residency Experience employee(s) who
facilitated lending the missing pieces of Dena Kemp jewelry to each of the
stylists acted negligently in the handling of the jewelry and documenting these
rentals. 
 
c. In breach of the Residency Experience
Agreement, Residency Express has failed and refused, and continues to fail and
refuse, to return to Dena Kemp the missing jewelry pieces, or to pay for their
value.
 
24.  On
March 28, 2024, by email of the same date, Dena Kemp sent a final demand to
Residency Experience for return of the missing jewelry pieces or payment of the
cost thereof A deadline of April 24, 2024 was set for compliance.
 
25.  On
April 10, 2024, Dena Kemp received a letter from counsel for Residency Express,
denying liability for the losses sustained by Dena Kemp as a result of the
theft or loss of the missing jewelry pieces.
 
26.  On
April 22, 2024, counsel for Dena Kemp responded to this letter, with a demand
for return of the missing jewelry items or payment in full of their value. As
of the date this action was filed, defendants and each of them had failed and
refused, and continue to fail and refuse, to pay Dena Kemp in full for the
losses sustained as a result of the loss or theft of the missing jewelry
pieces. As of the filing date of this action, the amount due, owing and unpaid
to Dena Kemp for the full retail value of the missing jewelry was the sum of
$136,866.66. Since the filing of this action, certain payments have been
received from certain of the stylists, reducing this total somewhat. As of
August 20, 2024, the amount due, owing and unpaid from the defendants
collectively was $120,700.00.
 
[…]
 
88.  Under
the terms of the Residency Experience Agreement, defendants and each of them
knowingly, purposefully and wrongfully exercised dominion and control over
plaintiffs personal property, specifically the fine jewelry items enumerated in
the Residency Experience Agreement, the Wayman and Micah Agreement, the EJ King
Agreement and the Kollin Carter Agreement. 
 
89.  At all
material times, plaintiff had a right to the aforesaid items of fine jewelry. 
 
90.  Defendants
and each of them knowingly, purposefully and substantially interfered with
plaintiffs ownership and possessory interests in the subject property by
converting it to defendants' own use by: 
 
a.      Taking
possession of the fine jewelry items enumerated in the Residency Experience
Agreement, the Wayman and Micah Agreement, the EJ King Agreement and the Kollin
Carter Agreement, and converting them to their own purposes; 
 
b.     Preventing
plaintiff from gaining access to its property or the retail value thereof; and 
 
c.      Refusing
either to tender to plaintiff the lost or stolen items of jewelry, or to pay
plaintiff, upon demand, the sums due which had been converted by defendants and
each of them.
 
91.  Plaintiff did not consent to these
acts of conversion by defendants and each of them. 
 
92. As a direct and proximate result of the
wrongful conduct of defendants and each of them, plaintiff has suffered damages
in the minimum sum of $120,700.00, according to proof at time of trial,
together with (a) late charges as provided in the Wayman and Micah Agreement,
the EJ King Agreement and the Carter Agreement, or at the maximum legal rate,
(b) prejudgment interest at the legal rate of ten-percent per annum and (c)
costs of suit incurred herein, all according to proof at time of trial.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 12-26; 88-92.)
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants wrongfully took, kept, and/or disposed of
Plaintiff’s fine jewelry.
 
            Defendants
argue that (1) Plaintiff cannot show Defendants acted intentionally to
wrongfully dispose of the jewelry at issue; and (2) the economic loss doctrine
bars Plaintiff’s conversion claim, which is primarily premised on a breach of
contract claim.
 
            Intentional
Wrongful Act
 
            As
for the first argument, whether Plaintiff can ultimately show that
Defendants committed a wrongful act is a matter of proof to be resolved at
later stages of the litigation.  
 
Further, “Conversion is a
strict liability tort. The foundation of the action rests neither in the
knowledge nor the intent of the defendant. Instead, the tort consists in the
breach of an absolute duty; the act of conversion itself is tortious.
Therefore, questions of the defendant's good faith, lack of knowledge, and
motive are ordinarily immaterial.”  (Regent
Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)  Plaintiff has adequately alleged that
Defendants wrongfully kept or otherwise disposed of and failed to return Plaintiff’s
fine jewelry sufficient to state a claim for conversion.
 
            The
case Defendants cite to for the contrary proposition is misplaced.  Defendants cite to Duke v. Superior Court  which holds:  “To prove a cause of action for conversion,
the plaintiff must show the defendant acted intentionally to wrongfully dispose
of the property of another.”  (Duke v.
Superior Court (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 490, 508 (hereafter Duke).)  But this simply means that an intentional act
is required, that ultimately wrongfully disposes the property of another.  It does not mean that the Plaintiff must plead
and show a wrongful intent.  As Duke
itself notes, “A cause of action for conversion does not require a
showing of bad faith” and the “parties’ good faith or bad faith is irrelevant
to our inquiry[.]”  (Id. at
p. 507.)  Further, Duke held that
the plaintiff was not foreclosed from alleging a cause of
action for conversion at the pleadings stage. 

 
The Court similarly finds Voris v. Lampert distinguishable, as
that case decided the narrow issue of whether a terminated employee may assert a
conversion claim based on the nonpayment of wages.  (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th
1141 (hereafter Voris).)  Specifically, Voris held that because
there already exist extensive remedies for the nonpayment of wages, it was
inappropriate to recognize an additional claim for conversion.  (Id. at pp. 1156-1157.) Because this
case does not involve unpaid wages, Voris is inapposite.
 
Economic Loss Doctrine
 
As for Defendants’ second
argument, “[T]he economic loss rule provides: where a purchaser’s expectations
in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly,
his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only economic
losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  “This doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn
between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes where
economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and those
involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are
injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law
of torts.”  (Ibid.)  
 
In summary, the economic loss
doctrine applies when the parties have entered into a contract; the plaintiff
sues for tort damages, alleging defendant failed to perform as the contract
requires; and negligently caused economic losses flowing from the breach. In
such a case, plaintiffs are generally limited to recovery of those economic
damages and cannot seek to expand their remedies beyond those available in
contract. The doctrine does not apply if defendant's breach caused physical
damage or personal injury beyond the economic losses caused by the contractual
breach and defendant violated a duty flowing, not from the contract, but from a
separate, legally recognized tort obligation.
 
A case in which the plaintiff
sues a contractual party for fraud based on conduct committed during the course
of a contractual relationship falls outside the economic loss doctrine.  
 
(Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 44 (hereafter Rattagan).)
 
The economic loss rule is best
understood as a specific application of the same independent tort principle
reflected in Tameny, Applied Equipment, and Freeman & Mills.
Whenever a contract breach causes physical harm to a person or property, the
economic loss rule's limitation gives way to the recognition that an
independent tort duty of care was likely also breached, resulting in an injury
not contemplated and provided for by the parties. This is so because any
contractual breach resulting in physical injury or property damage normally
resides outside the reasonable expectations of the parties when they entered
their contractual relationship. The inverse may also be true. When a
contractual breach results only in economic losses, the pecuniary injury may fall
within the scope of parties' precontractual expectations and their allocation
of risks, and it is less likely to implicate the breach of a tort duty
independent of their contractual rights and obligations. Whether the alleged
harm arises independently from the contract can be a nuanced question.  
 
When evaluating whether the
parties' expectations and risk allocations bar tort recovery, the court must
consider the alleged facts. First, applying standard contract principles, it
must ascertain the full scope of the parties' contractual agreement, including
the rights created or reserved, the obligations assumed or declined, and the
provided remedies for breach. Second, it must determine whether there is an
independent tort duty to refrain from the alleged conduct. Third, if an
independent duty exists, the court must consider whether the plaintiff can
establish all elements of the tort independently of the rights and duties
assumed by the parties under the contract.
 
The guiding and distinguishing
principle is this. If the alleged breach is based on a failure to perform as
the contract provides, and the parties reasonably anticipated and allocated the
risks associated with the breach, the cause of action will generally sound only
in contract because a breach deprives an injured party of a benefit it
bargained for. However, if the contract reveals the consequences were not
reasonably contemplated when the contract was entered and the duty to avoid
causing such a harm has an independent statutory or public policy basis,
exclusive of the contract, tort liability may lie.  
 
(Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at pp. 26-27.)

 
“The lesson to be drawn from
this review is that contract and tort obligations are different. The
independent tort principle, and its specific application in our economic loss
rule cases, honors those differences. The law of contracts protects the interests
of parties who enter into an agreement that secures rights and obligations of
their choosing. The parties make clear those rights and obligations by the
terms they put in the contract. Contract law functions to facilitate commerce
by enforcing the agreement the parties adopt. Tort law operates on a different
principle. A tort remedy arises, not based on an agreement between the parties,
but because the defendant has violated a societal duty that the law itself
imposes on everyone. A tortfeasor is held liable not for violating a contract,
but for violating an independent legal duty.” 
(Rattagan , supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 37 [cleaned up].)
 
“But to be held liable in
tort, a defendant must commit a tort. If all the defendant has allegedly done
is violate the terms of the parties' contract, depriving the plaintiff of the
benefits the contract ensures, the defendant's liability is limited by the
contract. Broader tort liability only arises if a defendant violates an
independent legal duty and the type of harm that ensues was not reasonably
contemplated or accounted for by the contractual parties.”  (Rattagan, supra,
17 Cal.5th at p. 37.)
 
“Within the context of the broader independent tort principles previously
summarized, our answer encapsulates steps one and three of the required
analysis: (1) a court must ascertain the full scope of the parties' contractual
agreement; and (3) the court must determine whether the plaintiff can establish
all elements of the tort independent of the rights and duties assumed by the
parties under the contract. Step two is satisfied here because, as discussed
post, the independent tort duty to refrain from engaging in fraudulent conduct
is well established by statute and common law.” 
(Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 38 [cleaned up].)
 
            Here,
the FAC alleges that Defendants failed to return the jewelry or pay the cost
thereof in accordance with the parties’ contract.  Thus, the conversion cause of action does not
arise out of some separate duty or tort, but rather, is entirely subsumed by
the rights and duties imposed by the parties’ contract.  
 
            Therefore,
the court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action for
conversion pursuant to the economic loss doctrine, because the FAC fails to
allege tortious conduct separate and apart from Defendants’ duties under the
contract.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Seventeenth
Cause of Action – Promissory Fraud
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently allege[] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint must
allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some future
action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did not
really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, in addition to the
allegations above, Plaintiff alleges:
 
116.  During the first half of January 2021,
plaintiff's chief financial officer Michael Kemp carried on a series of
communications, by email and in telephone calls, with Stephen Ledezma, Senior
Vice-President of Residency Experience, regarding a resumption of their earlier
2019 Agreement. In those communications, they discussed the terms of the form
of the Residency Experience Agreement, including among others, that all
placements of fine jewelry products would be covered by Residency Experience's
insurance. This term was explicitly incorporated into the Residency Experience
Agreement, ¶13, as set out above: "The Residency Experience will insure
all pieces while in the case of The Residency Experience." In those
communications between Michael Kemp and Stephen Ledezma, Ledezma represented
that the identical terms contained in the 2019 Agreement would apply to the new
Residency Experience Agreement, with one significant change only: the new
agreement would be on a month-to-month basis, rather than for a term of months.

 
117. These representations on behalf of the
Residency Experience and Belden were intended to induce performance by
plaintiff, to wit, by entering into the Residency Experience Agreement and
performing thereunder. 
 
118. Plaintiff is informed and believes and
thereon alleges that at the time these representations were made, defendants
had no intention of performing by providing adequate insurance to cover all
fine jewelry pieces entrusted to the Residency Experience. 
 
119. These representations were false, and known
by Ledezma, the Residency Experience and Belden to be false, at the time of
their making. 
 
120. Plaintiff relied reasonably on these
representations and statements by Ledezma and Residency Experience, with whom
(together with Belden) plaintiff had carried on a successful business
relationship since 2019. 
 
121. Plaintiff executed and rendered performance
under the Residency Experience Agreement based on the aforesaid false
representations and promises by, among other things, executing that agreement,
paying the required monthly fee and making available to defendants the fine
jewelry items which are the subject of this lawsuit. 
 
122. As a direct and proximate result of the
aforesaid wrongful conduct of defendants and each of them, plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $120,700.00, according to proof at time
of trial, together with (a) late charges as provided in the Residency
Experience Agreement or at the maximum legal rate, (b) prejudgment interest at
the legal rate of ten percent per annum and (c) costs of suit incurred herein,
all according to proof at time of trial.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 116-122.)
 
Although Plaintiff alleges “Plaintiff is informed and believes and
thereon alleges that at the time these representations were made, defendants
had no intention of performing by providing adequate insurance to cover all
fine jewelry pieces entrusted to the Residency Experience” and “These
representations were false, and known by Ledezma, the Residency Experience and
Belden to be false, at the time of their making” (FAC ¶¶ 118-119) allegations made
“on information and belief” are insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading
requirement “unless the facts upon which the belief is founded are stated in
the pleading.”  (Dowling v. Spring Valley.
Water Co. (1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not alleged any specific facts supporting its
belief that Defendants did not intend to honor their promise at the time it was
made.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the seventeenth
cause of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of exemplary
and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has not alleged facts with
requisite specificity to state a cause of action for fraud against Defendants.  As such, the Court finds that the allegations
similarly do not adequately support a claim for punitive damages against Defendants.    
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden.  Although Plaintiff generally requests that
the Court grant Plaintiff leave to amend, Plaintiff does not identify any
specific facts that it could add to the complaint to cure the deficiencies
identified above.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
thirteenth cause of action for conversion and the seventeenth cause of action
for promissory fraud without leave to amend. 
Further, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike allegations and
requests for punitive damages without leave to amend.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve (an) Answer(s)
to the FAC on or before February 4, 2025. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion for judicial economy, the Court will
advance and hold the Case Management Conference on January 14, 2025 instead of
January 15, 2025.    
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 14, 2025                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court