 Case Number:  24SMCV04378    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 14, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04378




MOTION


Motion to Seal




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff Kayote James and Defendants Syris Elijah
  King-Klem and Syris King-Klem LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            On September
9, 2024, Plaintiff Kayote James (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging eight
causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) intentional misrepresentation;
(3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) false promise; (5) intentional infliction
of emotional distress; (6) conversion; (7) violation of Penal Code section 496;
and (8) unfair business practices.  Attached
to the original complaint was an unredacted copy of the parties’ contract.
 
            The Parties
have now submitted a stipulated joint application to seal the version of
Plaintiff’s Complaint that was already filed and to allow the filing of an
identical version with Defendant’s bank account and routing number information
redacted.
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to
the public, pursuant to a potent “open court” policy undergirded by the First
Amendment and favoring the public nature of court proceedings.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550(c); see¿NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1999)¿20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-1110.)¿ Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties; filing under seal requires a court order.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a); see¿H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th
879, 888.)¿
 
A sealing order must be sought by
means of a motion (or application) and accompanied by a memorandum of points
and authorities, as well as evidence and testimony containing facts sufficient
to justify the mandatory findings required to support a sealing order.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rules 2.550(d) & 2.551(b).)¿ The proponent of the sealing
order must also conditionally lodge the¿unredacted¿matter to be sealed with the
court.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(4).)¿
 
To grant a motion to seal, a trial
court must expressly find that: (1) an overriding interest exists that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding interest
supports sealing the records; (3) a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no¿less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550 (d).) “If
the trial court fails to make the required findings, the order is deficient and
cannot support sealing.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th  471, 487; see
also In re Marriage of Tamir (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 1068, 1087 [“express
findings must be made to seal records”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
California Rules of Court, rule
1.201(a)(2) provides:  “To protect
personal privacy and other legitimate interests, parties and their attorneys
must not include, or must redact where inclusion is necessary, the following
identifiers from all pleadings and other papers filed in the court’s public
file, whether filed in paper or electronic form, unless otherwise provided by
law or ordered by the court: […] (2) Financial account numbers.  If financial account numbers are required in
a plead or other paper filed in the public file, only the last four digits of
these numbers may be used.”
 
Thus, the information the parties
seek to redact is generally the proper subject of such a redaction or motion to
seal.
 
However, “A record must not be
filed under seal without a court order” and “The court must not permit a record
to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the
parties.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.551(a).)  Specifically, “A party
requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. 
The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and
a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b), emphasis
added.)
 
Here, the parties have provided the
requisite memorandum and Declaration of Kathryn L. McCann, which provides:
 
3. Plaintiff Kayote
James (“Plaintiff”) electronically filed her Complaint in this matter on
September 9, 2024. Plaintiff’s Complaint attaches, as Exhibit A, a document
described as the contract between the Parties. However, the version of Exhibit
A attached to the public filing contains Defendants’ financial information that
should have been redacted pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule
1.201(a)(2).
 
[…]
 
The proposed
redactions are only to the financial account information found in Exhibit A to
the Complaint. A true and correct copy of the proposed redacted Complaint is
attached hereto as Exhibit 3.
 
(McCann Decl. ¶¶ 3, 6.)
 
As such, the Court finds that
Defendant has an overriding interest in the financial information that
overrides the public’s interest in accessing that information and that supports
sealing the record and allowing Plaintiff to file the redacted version.
 
There exists a substantial
probability that Defendant’s privacy interests in its financial information
will be compromised if the record is not sealed. Further, because Plaintiff
will only redact out Defendant’s specific bank account information from Exhibit
A to the Complaint, the request is narrowly tailored and no less restrictive
means exist to protect the overriding interest.
 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore,
the Court grants the parties’ stipulated application to seal the version of the
Complaint currently on file and to permit the filing of the version of the
complaint as redacted.   
 
            Further,
the Court orders the parties to confer and cooperate with the Clerk of the Court
to implement the Court’s orders.  
 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.  
 
            
 
 
DATED: 
January 14, 2025                            ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court