 Case Number:  21STCV18818    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DEWYINE
  ROSS, et al. 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LOS
   ANGELES COUNTYMETROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 21STCV18818
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
   AUTHORITY’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF DEWYINE ROSS’ DEPOSITION
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
   10, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May 19, 2021, Plaintiff Dewyine
Ross (“Plaintiff”) filed this motor vehicle negligence
action against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and Richard Lawrence Walker. Trial is currently scheduled for May 22,
 2024.  
On May 30, 2023, Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Defendant”) filed
the instant motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to
restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party
to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
The party served with a deposition notice waives
any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection
at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition to serving
this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking
of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410, subd. (c).)
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document .
. . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
Where a motion to compel a party’s appearance and
testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent,
unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) On motion of a party who,
in person or by attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition
notice in the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and against the
deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant
first served a deposition notice on December 9, 2021, for a deposition to be
taken on February 25, 2022. However, Plaintiff did not appear for the
deposition. The deposition was then rescheduled for March 17, 2022, and then
continued to September 28, 2022, but Plaintiff again did not appear. On
September 29, 2022, defense counsel inquired as to the reason for plaintiff's
failure to appear and available dates to reschedule the deposition but has not
received a response. (See Thomas Decl.) 
Plaintiff’s
opposition is a declaration from counsel stating that he has tried to get his
client to appear for deposition but on each scheduled occasion, his client had
“last minute health issues.” (Yeager Decl., ¶2.)  The Court finds that insufficient to excuse the
repeated, months apart, failures to appear, and the failure to schedule the
deposition despite repeated requests to do so. As Defendant sent a notice of
deposition on Plaintiff and Plaintiff failed to appear, and, further, Defendant
has made numerous efforts to obtain a date for the deposition, the motion is
GRANTED.
Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $3,200 based on 3 hours to prepare the
motion, 1.5 hours to reply, and 3.5 hours to appear for the hearing at the rate
of $400/hour. The Court finds that sanctions are warranted as Plaintiff did not
appear twice for deposition and did not respond to the inquiry as to the
non-appearance.  Accordingly, the Court
finds that sanctions are warranted and grants them in the reduced amount of $1,200.
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED. Sanctions
are granted in the amount of $1,200, to be paid within 30 days.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
       Dated this 10th day
of January
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 