 Case Number:  21STCV39357    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



HOWARD
  REICHMAN,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JEFFREY
  ALAN SCHECHTER, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV39357
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  10, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
October 25, 2021, Plaintiff Howard Reichman (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Jeffrey Alan Schechter (“Schechter”) and Showrunner
Industries, Inc. (“Showrunner”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for (1) breach of
fiduciary duty, (2) conversion, and (3) quantum meruit arising from a business
dispute.
          On
December 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.
          On
January 3, 2024, Defendant Showrunner filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff
for (1) fraud, (2) negligent misrepresentation, and (3) breach of contract.
On December 5,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) to add a cause of action for violation of Penal Code § 496. Defendants
oppose. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
CCP §473(a)(1) states: “The court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the courts have held
that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v.
ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) 
Pursuant to CRC 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading,
which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are proposed to
be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where such allegations
are located.  CRC 3.1324(b) requires a
separate declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of
the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  
III.     DISCUSSION
The Court finds that the procedural
requirements of CRC 3.1324(b) have not been satisfied. (See Weisskopf
Decl.). Even if the Court were to look to the attachments to the Weisskopf
declaration for compliance with CRC 3.1324(b), it is not informed why the
amendment is necessary and why the proposed amendment was not made
earlier.  Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.

IV.     CONCLUSION
The motion is DENIED.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
       Dated this 10th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 