 Case Number:  22STCV12685    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



GIANNA PILATO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV12685
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  10, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Gianna Pilato (“Plaintiff”) 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
The complaint arises from Plaintiff
injuring herself while riding a motorized scooter. On April 15, 2022, Plaintiff
Gianna Pilato (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants City of Los
Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), California Department of
Transportation, Bird Rides, Inc. (“Bird”), Segway, Inc., and Does 1-50
(collectively, “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for: (1) Premises
Liability; (2) Strict Liability; and (3) Negligence. Only the first cause of
action is asserted against Defendant City. 
On October 3, 2022, Defendant Bird
filed a petition to compel arbitration (the “Petition”). The Petition was
brought on the grounds that Plaintiff signed the Bird Rental Agreement, Waiver
of Liability and Release (the “Agreement”), which contained an arbitration
clause. On December 8, 2022, the Court granted Defendant Bird’s Petition and
compelled arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Bird pursuant to
the Agreement. The Court stayed this action pending the completion of
arbitration between Plaintiff and Defendant Bird. 
On December 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Defendant County and Defendant County was dismissed
from this action on December 22, 2022. 
On December 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Defendant Bird and Defendant Bird was dismissed
from this action on December 27, 2022.  
 
On July 20, 2023, the Court held a
Status Conference re Arbitration, and the Court lifted the stay on the case in
its entirety. 
On September 19, 2023, Defendant City
filed and served a demurrer to the first cause of action in the complaint. The
demurrer is made on the grounds that the first cause of action for premises
liability fails to state a cause of action against Defendant City due to the
waiver and release of liability clauses present in the Agreement. On October
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. The opposition was
served on Defendant City on October 16, 2023. Defendant City filed a reply
brief on October 20, 2023. 
On November 30, 2023, after hearing,
the Court continued the hearing on Defendant City’s demurrer to December 22,
2023. (11/30/23 Minute Order.) Plaintiff was “ordered to submit supplemental
briefing on the issues discussed no later than 12/08/23.” (11/30/23 Minute
Order.) Defendant was given the opportunity to “submit a responsive brief no
later than 12/15/23.” (11/30/23 Minute Order.) 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed
and served a supplemental brief.[1]

On December 14, 2023, the Court issued
an order advancing and continuing the hearing on the demurrer to January 10,
2024. (12/14/23 Minute Order.)  
On December 15, 2023, Defendant City
filed and served a reply to Plaintiff’s supplemental brief. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)
A demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which the
court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or conclusions
of law or fact. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068,
1078.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be
alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading
can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) “If there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.)  
III.       
DISCUSSION
The Meet and Confer Requirement
           “Before
filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)

Defendant
City’s counsel attests to e-mailing Plaintiff’s counsel on two occasions in
August 2023 as to the subject of the demurrer. (Posey Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
Plaintiff’s counsel e-mailed Defendant City’s counsel indicating that he agreed
that counsel’s e-mails were sufficient for meet and confer purposes. (Id.,
¶ 4.) The meet and confer requirement has not been met as the parties have not
met and conferred in person or by telephone; however, the Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet
and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still
consider the demurrer; however, the Court reminds the parties of the need to
comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
Judicial Notice
          The
demurrer of Defendant City is premised on the Court taking judicial notice of
the existence and content of the Agreement, which contains a waiver and release
of liability. Plaintiff objects to Defendant City’s request for judicial notice
on the grounds that there is insufficient information provided to the Court for
evaluation and the proffered interpretations of fact are disputed. 
In her
supplemental brief, Plaintiff asserts that she “disputes that the [A]greement
applies between her and [Defendant] City.” (Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief,
6:23-24.) Defendant City contends that its request for judicial notice is
proper because the Agreement has already been determined to be valid and
enforceable by this Court. (Defendant’s Supplemental Reply Brief, 7:16-17.) 
          “Under
Evidence Code section 452, a court may take judicial notice of [f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Chacon v. Union Pacific Railroad (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 565, 572, citations omitted.) 
Judicial
notice of the contents of a contract is appropriate on demurrer where there is
and cannot be any factual dispute concerning the contents of the agreement. (Performance
Plastering v. Richmond American Homes of California, Inc. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 659, 666, fn.2.) Where judicial notice is requested of a legally
operative document, such as a contract, “the court may take notice not only of
the fact of the document and its . . . publication, but also facts that clearly
derive from its legal effect.” (Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 743, 754.) 
The Court
grants Defendant City’s request to take judicial notice of the Agreement.
Issue No. 1: First Cause of Action
(Premises Liability)
          To
state a cause of action for premises liability, a plaintiff must allege (1) a
legal duty to use due care, (2) a breach of such legal duty, and (3) the breach
as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Jones v. Awad (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207.) “Duty is not universal; not every defendant owes
every plaintiff a duty of care.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11
Cal.5th 204, 213.) A defendant only owes a plaintiff a duty when “the
plaintiff’s interests are entitled to legal protection against the defendant’s
conduct.” (Ibid. [quotations and citations omitted].) “Whether a duty
exists is a question of law to be resolved by the court.” (Ibid.
[citation omitted].) 
          “In
cases arising from hazardous recreational pursuits, to permit released claims
to be brought to trial defeats the purpose for which releases are requested and
given, regardless of which party ultimately wins the verdict.” (Buchan v.
United States Cycling Federation, Inc. (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d 134, 147.) Liability
for negligence will not be imputed on a defendant where a release is “clear,
unambiguous, and explicit, and . . . it express[es] an agreement not to hold
the released party liable for negligence.” (Id. at p. 147 [citation
omitted].) A release “need not achieve perfection.” (Benedek v. PLC Santa
Monica, LLC (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356 [citation omitted].) 
          Pertinent
Allegations of the Complaint 
          Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants “negligently, recklessly and/or wantonly owned,
maintained, managed, operated, controlled, and safeguarded the premises at or
near Rose Ave. & Main St., Los Angeles, CA 90291, such that an unknown
object and/or construction debris were allowed to exist and be left in
disrepair.” (Complaint, ¶ 33.) Plaintiff also alleges that “Defendants failed
to barricade the area and/or warn of the dangerous condition, rendering the
area of said premises dangerous and resulting in serious bodily injury” to Plaintiff.
(Id.) Plaintiff alleges that, while riding a motorized scooter, she fell
on “uneven and/or broken and/or deteriorating portion of the roadway and/or
pathway and/or pothole.” (Id., ¶ 34.) Defendant City had notice of the
dangerous condition according to the complaint. (Id., ¶ 35.) Plaintiff
alleges that the motorized scooter was owned by Defendant Bird. (Id., ¶
25.) 
          Language
of the Agreement
The Agreement contains a release
of liability which provides as follows: 
“[i]n
exchange for Rider being allowed to use Services, Vehicles, and other equipment
or related information provided by Operator, Rider agrees to fully release,
indemnify, and hold harmless Operator . . . and to the fullest extent permitted
by law any Municipality (including its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, agents, contractors, and volunteers) in which Rider
utilizes Services . . . from all liability for all [claims] arising out of or
in any way related to Rider’s use of the Services, Vehicles, App, or related
equipment, including but not limited to, those Claims based on Released
Persons’ alleged negligence . . . except for Claims based on Released Persons’
gross negligence or willful misconduct. Such releases are intended to be
general and complete releases of all Claims.” (Request for Judicial Notice,
Exhibit B at § 15.)
                    The Agreement defines Claims as “any
and all claims injuries, demands, liabilities, disputes, causes of action . . .
damages (including but not limited to, for personal injury)” which arise from
Plaintiff’s use of the motorized scooter. (Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibit
B at § 16.) Defendant City is a defined as a “Released Persons” under the
Agreement as it is a municipality, and Plaintiff does not dispute such fact. (Id.,
Exhibit B at § 15.) The Agreement—to which Plaintiff agreed—includes a release
of all claims arising from the negligence of any municipality or other party. (Id.)
          Analysis

Plaintiff relies
on Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
97, 113 for the proposition that the Court cannot resolve an issue surrounding
interpretation of a judicially noticed document as a basis to grant a
demurrer.  The Court recognizes the
validity of that argument, but notes that is the case only if there is a basis
for argument regarding the interpretation. 
(See Performance Plastering and Scott, supra.)  Here, no issue regarding the interpretation
exists.  Rather, Plaintiff seeks to
create an equitable argument regarding the application of the clear language of
the Agreement to her on the theory that somehow everyone who agreed to the terms
of the Agreement would then be giving up all claims against the City for any
reason whatsoever.  Respectfully, that is
an outlandish argument.  She also
contends that, despite the clear language of the Agreement, she did not know
that she was giving up claims she may have against the City, and the release is
an example of overreaching.  The Court
disagrees.  The language of the release
is clear and unambiguous and applies specifically to the conduct underlying the
Agreement, namely, to ride a Bird scooter on city streets.  
Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend, contending that she could, for instance, “allege that the
City failed to conduct proper inspections of the area  where the incident occurred, had notice of
the defective are were the incident [sic] and failed to fix the location where
the incident occurred.” (Plaintiff’s Supplemental Briefing at 7).  However, those allegations do not cure the
issue upon which this decision is predicated – Plaintiff waived the claim she
is seeking to bring.  Accordingly, the
Court denies leave to amend.
IV. CONCLUSION
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant City to
the first cause of action in the Complaint and denies Plaintiff’s request for leave
to amend.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 10th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


