 Case Number:  23STCV12335    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MICHAEL
  CLAYTON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
XPO LOGISTIC
  FREIGHT, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV12335
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT XPO LOGISTICS FREIGHT, INC.’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS
  OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 10,
  2024



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
On March 31, 2023, Plaintiff Michael Clayton
initiated this action against Defendants XPO Logistics Freight Inc., Alameda
Engle Properties, LLC, Doe Fence Company, Secure Mobile Destruction, Inc. and
Does 1 to 50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence; (2)
products liability; (3) premises liability; and (4) strict liability. Plaintiff
alleges that, during a delivery on June 17, 2021, at the subject premises
located at 8440 Alameda Street in the City of Los Angeles, he was electrocuted
by an electrified fence that enclosed the subject property. It is further
alleged that, at the time of the incident, the electrified fence discharged
over 7,000 volts of electricity, did not have a perimeter fence, and did not
have any warning signs visible to Plaintiff. The only warning sign was located
on the opposite side of the fence facing the opposite direction of the
Plaintiff. 
On November 20, 2023, Defendant XPO Logistics
Freight, Inc. (“XPO”) filed the instant motion to strike, seeking to strike
references to Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. On December 21, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his opposition. Thereafter, on January 3, 2024, XPO filed its
reply. 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd.
(b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
“Before filing a motion to strike . . . the
moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be
raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a).)  If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve
with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which
the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement,
or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and
confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)   
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly
granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not
sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall
Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) 
The allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with
specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not
enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,
1041-1042.) 
III.            
DISCUSSION
XPO moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages on the ground that it has not been sufficiently alleged with
the requisite specificity. 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code
section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be
found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct
represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.)
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) 
Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155; see also Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th
1217, 1228 [“Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient
where the defendant is aware of the probably dangerous consequences of his or
her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences”].)  
XPO argues that Plaintiff’s complaint consists
only of conclusory statements in support of his claim for punitive damages.
(Motion at 7.) As a result, XPO contends that the Complaint fails to allege
that XPO acted with the requisite malice and oppressive conduct needed to
support such a claim. (Ibid.) Additionally, XPO argues that the
Complaint is devoid of any allegations establishing an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation authorized or ratified the misconduct that it
had knowledge of, which is necessary to support a claim of punitive damages
against a corporation. (Id. at 8-9.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Complaint
has sufficient facts alleged to support his claim for punitive damages. In
particular, Plaintiff contends the allegations establish that XPO acted with a
conscious disregard of the safety of others because it is alleged that the
fence was electrified to a lethal voltage and failed to possess a perimeter
wall or sufficient warning signs to safeguard the public. (Opposition at 5.) 
The Court finds that the Complaint does not
sufficiently allege facts to support a claim for punitive damages against XPO. The
allegations regarding the lack of safety surrounding the fence establish that
XPO acted with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s interests, and the
allegations that the fence was electrified far beyond a lethal limit without
necessary safety measures as required by statute are sufficient to show that
XPO’s conduct was contemptible and would be despised by ordinary decent people.
(Tomaselli, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at 1287.) 
However, the Complaint falls short in alleging corporate
responsibility for punitive damages. “An employer shall not be liable for
punitive damages based on the acts of an employee, unless the employer had
advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct for which damages are awarded, or was personally
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer,
the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or
act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation”. (Civ. Code, § 3294(b).) The
Complaint fails to allege with sufficient particularity that XPO’s officer,
director, or managing agent knowingly authorized or ratified the installation
and maintenance of the electrified fence. Thus, the Complaint improperly
includes a claim for punitive damages against Defendant XPO. 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s opposition fails to set
forth any additional facts that would indicate that defect could be cured. Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.  (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) Because Plaintiff has failed to meet his
burden, he is not entitled to leave to amend.  If during the course of discovery Plaintiff
uncovers facts that would support a claim of punitive damages against XPO, then
Plaintiff is permitted to seek leave to amend in the future. 
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
strike without leave to amend. 
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendant XPO Logistics
Freight, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages against defendant XPO are deemed stricken.  
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 10th
day of February 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 