 Case Number:  21STCV29289    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



TROY
  COE, II, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
LYFT,
  INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV29289
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  10, 2024
 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
August 9, 2021, Plaintiff Troy Coe II (“Plaintiff”) filed this motor vehicle
negligence action against Defendants Lyft, Inc., Fernando Olaya, Min Yong Kim,
and Michael Peretz. On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff substituted Defendant Braazo
Pizza, Inc. for Doe 1. On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff substituted Defendant Braazo
Pizza for Doe 2.
On
June 9, 2023, Defendant Luis Fernando Olaya (erroneously sued as Fernando
Olaya) (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion for leave to file a
Cross-Complaint. The motion is unopposed.
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure § 428.10 provides the following:
 
A party against whom a cause of action
has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint
setting forth either or both of the following:
 
(a) Any cause of action he has against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.
Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against
the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section
1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b) Any cause of action he has against
a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a
party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1)
arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)
 
After the trial date has been set, a
party seeking to file a cross-complaint must obtain leave of court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50(b).) Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action. (Id., § 428.50(c).) Indeed, where
a cause of action would otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even
if the party was negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier. “The
legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court. A
motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action
must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where
forfeiture would otherwise result.” (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)
 
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Defendant Olaya proposes filing a
Cross-Complaint containing causes of action for (1) Equitable Comparative
Indemnity Apportionment of Fault, (2) Total Equitable Indemnity, (3) Equitable
Implied Indemnity, and (4) Declaratory Relief, as to recently added Defendant
Braazo Pizza, the other named defendants, and potential Roe defendants.
Defendant asserts that Braazo Pizza, Inc. was allegedly the employer of
Defendant Kim at the time of the incident.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
it is in the interests of justice to allow Defendant to file the
Cross-Complaint for indemnity and declaratory relief against the newly added
Defendant. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the unopposed Motion is GRANTED.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 10th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 