 Case Number:  20STCV34715    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



HOLLY MCKAY,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SAMUEL
  NICHOLAS WECHSLER and DOES 1 to 50,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV34715
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF
  COMPLETING EXPERT DEPOSITIONS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  10, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On September 11, 2020, Plaintiff Holly
McKay (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Samuel Nicholas
Wechsler (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50, for motor vehicle liability. 
On November 16, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant motion to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of completing
expert depositions. Specifically, Defendant seeks to complete the remaining
expert depositions by Plaintiff. 
On November
28, the Court granted Defendant’s Ex Parte Application, resulting in the trial being
continued to its current date of February 2, 2023.
 
On December
27, 2023, Plaintiff filed opposition to the motion.
On January 3,
2024, Defendant replied to Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
“[A]ny party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or
before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) 
“Except as
provided in the Code of Civil Procedure § 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b).) 
Code Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 subdivision (a) provides, in part, that “[o]n motion
of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or
to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date,
or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set. This motion shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”   
In assessing
a motion brought under the Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 subdivision
(a), the court “shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) [t]he necessity
and the reasons for discovery[;] (2) [t]he diligence or lack of diligence of
the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier[;] (3) [a]ny likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party[;] and (4) [t]he length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).) Good cause must be shown
to reopen discovery. (Beverly Hospital v. Superior Court (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 1289, 1293.)
“The court shall
impose monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Procs., § 2024.050, subd. (c).) 
“In law and
motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of
declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
III.     DISCUSSION
Meet and
Confer
Defendant’s
counsel and Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in email and telephone discussions regarding
the issue of scheduling the deposition of the remaining experts before the discovery
cutoff date. Defendant’s counsel states that she has made a good-faith attempt
to meet and confer. (Mot. page 6.) Plaintiff's counsel also acknowledged that a
lengthy meet and confer session occurred on the morning of November 15, 2023.
(Burtchaell Decl., Exh. “3.”) On this basis, despite Plaintiff’s counsel’s position
that a sufficient meet and confer did not take place, the Court finds that the
meet and confer requirement has been met.
The Requested
Re-opening of Discovery 
The motion to
reopen and the opposition to it appears to be a battle in gamesmanship.  The Court is dismayed at the number of
continuances that have occurred in this case, and the apparent delay in doing
necessary discovery.  But, while
Plaintiff’s counsel fully blames Defense counsel, the Court finds the following
facts to be significant in deciding this motion: the most recent expert
designation was October 18, 2023, and at least since that time, Defense counsel
appears to have been making reasonable efforts to complete discovery.  Accordingly, and because there should be no
prejudice and no need to change the trial date, the Court will reopen discovery
for the limited purpose of completing expert depositions.  
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to reopen discovery
for the limited purpose of completing expert depositions is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated
this 10th Day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 