  Case Number:  22PSCV01082    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Good  Faith Investments, Inc., et al. v. General Motors, LLC  Plaintiffs’  Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of  Defendant’s person most qualified on categories 5-6, 8-13, 15-16, 18-19, 21-22,  and 24-27, but modifies the following categories:  -           Categories 5, 10, 26, and 27 are limited to Defendant’s lemon law  policies and procedures within California, and are otherwise limited to the  subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject  vehicle;  -           Categories 6, 11, 18, and 24, which address communications and  correspondence regarding the alleged electrical defect and engine defect should  be limited to the subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and  model as the subject vehicle regarding the same or similar complaints that are  the subject of this action; and -           Categories 8, 12, 15, 16, 21, and 22 are limited to dealers in  California, and are otherwise limited to the subject vehicle and vehicles of  the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle regarding the same or  similar complaints that are the subject of this action. Defendant’s person most qualified must appear for deposition  within 30 days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On September 20, 2022, plaintiffs Good  Faith Investments, Inc. and Cindy Portillo (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed  this action against defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant) and Does 1  through 50, alleging causes of action for violation of subdivision (d) of Civil  Code section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2,  violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2, breach of express  written warranty, and breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.  On June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel the deposition of  Defendant’s person most qualified on categories 5-6, 8-13, 15-16, 18-19, 21-22,  and 24-27 set forth in Plaintiff’s amended notice of deposition. On July 24,  2024, Defendant opposed the motion. On July 29, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.  LEGAL STANDARD  (a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to  the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or  a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection  under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to  proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or  tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice  may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and  the production for inspection of any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice.  (b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall  comply with both of the following:  (1) The motion shall set forth specific facts  showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or  tangible thing described in the deposition notice.  (2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet  and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or,  when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or  things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the  petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2), a motion to  compel attendance at a deposition requires the moving party to meet and confer  before bringing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) The  Court finds Plaintiffs’ meet-and-confer efforts satisfactory. (Oliva Decl., ¶¶ 31-34.)  However, the Court requests the parties going forward to meet and confer in  person, by telephone, or video conference, as those methods tend to be more  effective than emails and letters. (Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties are  required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference  before filing any motion.”]) The Court also requests that parties engage in an  informal discovery conference before filing motions to compel depositions. (See  Dept. 6 Courtroom Information, italics added [“Should the parties wish to file  a motion to compel further responses to discovery, or other discovery motions  regarding depositions or subpoenas, at any time during the pendency of this case,  counsel must first meet and confer in good faith either in person,  telephonically or by video conference. If the parties are unable to resolve  their discovery disputes, the Court requests that counsel schedule an Informal  Discovery Conference (IDC).”])  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiffs seek to compel Defendant to produce the person most  qualified (PMQ) to appear for deposition regarding categories 5-6, 8-13, 15-16,  18-19, 21-22, and 24-27 set forth in Plaintiff’s amended notice of deposition  served on March 18, 2024. Plaintiffs indicate that Defendants served  boilerplate objections and refused to produce a PMQ on those categories. Plaintiffs  contend that Defendant already produced documents on these topics, and  therefore good cause exists to order Defendant to produce a PMQ for deposition  on these topics.  Plaintiffs contend that the desired testimony is highly relevant.  Plaintiffs indicate that they seek a deponent regarding Defendant’s Lemon Law  Policies and Procedures, and its internal investigations into electrical and  engine defects. Plaintiffs contend these categories are reasonably calculated  to lead to discovery of the nature and duration of defects in the subject  vehicle, Defendant’s awareness of those defects, and Defendant’s knowledge and inability  to repair those defects. Plaintiffs contend the desired testimony is probative  of nonconformities with the subject vehicle and Defendant’s ability to repair  it within a reasonable number of opportunities, and that it will include  technical information Plaintiffs’ expert needs in rendering an expert opinion.  In opposition, Defendant contends its objections to Plaintiffs’  deposition notice were valid because Plaintiffs seek unnecessary information,  it already produced documents directly responsive to Plaintiffs’ discovery  requests, and it offered to produce a witness to testify about the subject  vehicle and the repairs performed under warranty. Defendant contends Plaintiffs  fail to explain why the requested testimony is discoverable, or essential to  their claims or Defendant’s defenses. Defendant contends breach of warranty  claims are unique to the consumer and the vehicle, and that the vehicle either  conformed to its warranty or it did not, or that Defendant was able to repair  the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts or it was not. Defendant  contends testimony and documents concerning other consumers or their vehicles  is irrelevant. Defendant further contends Plaintiffs do not need information  concerning Defendant’s internal investigations or analysis of the defects  alleged in the complaint, and that information regarding Defendant’s policies  and procedures regarding customer complaints for repurchase or replacement of  their vehicles is irrelevant. Finally, Defendant contends Plaintiffs’ requests  impermissibly seek production of trade secret material.  Analysis  Deponents who object to discovery requests bear the burden of  justifying those objections on a motion to compel. (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v.  Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Coy v. Superior Court of  Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221 (Coy); San  Diego Professional Ass’n v. Superior Court of San Diego County (1962) 58  Cal.2d 194, 199.)  On balance, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have the more  persuasive arguments here, and that Defendant has generally failed to justify  its objections to Plaintiffs’ deposition notice. First, objections as to  irrelevancy cannot be used to deny discovery. (Coy, supra, 58  Cal.2d at p. 217.) In determining the relevancy of discovery to the subject  matter in a pending action, the discovery statutes must be construed liberally  in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper by virtue of  well-established causes of denial. (Darbee v. Superior Court, San Mateo  County (1962) 208 Cal. App. 2d 680.) Defendant’s arguments that Plaintiff’s  designated categories and requested documents are not relevant are therefore  unavailing. The categories sought are reasonably calculated to lead to the  discovery of admissible evidence, including Defendant’s knowledge of the  alleged defects and whether Defendant’s conduct was willful. The Court  similarly rejects Defendant’s argument that Plaintiffs failed to explain why  the requested testimony is discoverable. (See Motion, 6:16-7:26.) Second, Defendant’s previous production of documents does not  exempt it from having to provide testimony on matters related to those  documents. Third, Plaintiffs are not strictly limited to discovery regarding  the subject vehicle, as Defendant’s general policies regarding lemon law  buybacks and repurchases are relevant and reasonably calculated to lead to  discovery of admissible evidence. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Fourth, it is not enough that Defendant agreed to produce a PMQ  witness on other categories. If Plaintiffs properly designated categories for a  PMQ witness, then Defendant must produce the witness on all properly designated  categories, not just the ones Defendant unilaterally determines to be proper.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) Fifth, the Court finds that  testimony and documents regarding other consumers or their vehicles, and  Defendant’s internal investigations or analysis of the defects alleged in the  complaint, are relevant. (See Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th  138, 154; Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of N. Am., Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th  174, 185-186; Oregel v. Am. Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th  1094, 1105; Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Finally, to the extent any trade  secret information is implicated, Plaintiffs indicate in their reply papers  that the parties already executed a protective order. (Reply, 3:4-8.) This  should adequately address Defendant’s concerns. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Court does agree to some extent  that some of the categories are overly broad. (Columbia Broadcasting System,  Inc. v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19  [trial court may refuse to order discovery responses answered where the  disclosure provides little practical benefit compared to the burden and expense  it would impose on the responding party].) Categories 5, 10, 26, and 27 concern  policies and procedures for evaluations and repurchases of vehicles under Civil  Code section 1793.2 and the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. While these categories  are limited to California by virtue of referencing California law, for the sake  of clarity, the Court finds these categories should be limited to Defendant’s  lemon law policies and procedures within California, and should otherwise be limited  to the subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the  subject vehicle. Categories 6, 11, 18, and 24, which address communications and  correspondence regarding the alleged electrical defect and engine defect should  be limited to the subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and  model as the subject vehicle regarding the same or similar complaints that are  the subject of this action. Categories 8, 12, 15, 16, 21, and 22 concern fixes, repairs, and  repair documents made available to Defendant’s dealers. These categories should  be limited to dealers in California. These categories should also be limited to  the subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the  subject vehicle regarding the same or similar complaints that are the subject  of this action. Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion,  except as modified herein. The Court also notes that neither party requested monetary  sanctions. Accordingly, no sanctions will be award. CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of  Defendant’s person most qualified on categories 5-6, 8-13, 15-16, 18-19, 21-22,  and 24-27, but modifies the following categories:  -           Categories 5, 10, 26, and 27 are limited to Defendant’s lemon law  policies and procedures within California, and are otherwise limited to the  subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject  vehicle;  -           Categories 6, 11, 18, and 24, which address communications and  correspondence regarding the alleged electrical defect and engine defect should  be limited to the subject vehicle and vehicles of the same year, make, and  model as the subject vehicle regarding the same or similar complaints that are  the subject of this action; and -           Categories 8, 12, 15, 16, 21, and 22 are limited to dealers in  California, and are otherwise limited to the subject vehicle and vehicles of  the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle regarding the same or  similar complaints that are the subject of this action. Defendant’s person most qualified must appear for deposition  within 30 days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.