 Case Number:  23PSCV00951    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Xiang
Li v. Armlogi Truck Dispatching LLC, et al. 
Motion
for an Order Approving Settlement of Claims Brought Pursuant to the Private
Attorneys General Act, Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs & Reimbursement
of Settlement Administration Expenses 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a PAGA case. On April 3, 2023, plaintiffs Xiang Li and Ke
Jiang (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants Armlogi
Truck Dispatching LLC, Tong Wu, Amstrong Logistic Inc (collectively, Defendants)
and Does 1 through 15. On May 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint against the same Defendants, alleging causes of action for
whistle blower retaliation, sick leave retaliation, wrongful termination of
public policy, non-payment of wages, failure to timely pay wages, recordkeeping
violations, and waiting time penalties. 
On June 20, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for an order approving settlement
of Plaintiffs’ PAGA claims. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA) is "a procedural
statute allowing an aggrieved employee to recover civil penalties–for Labor
Code violations–that otherwise would be sought by state labor law enforcement
agencies." (Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1756, AFL-CIO v. Superior
Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 993, 1003.) The statute provides a mechanism for
private enforcement of Labor Code violations for the public benefit. (See
Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 986.) 
To incentivize employees to bring PAGA actions, the statute
provides aggrieved employees 25 percent of the recovered civil penalties. (Lab.
Code § 2699, subd. (i).) The remaining 75 percent is distributed to the Labor
and Workforce Development Agency (LWDA) "for enforcement of labor laws and
education of employers and employees about their rights and responsibilities
under [the Labor Code]." (Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (i).) 
Labor Code section 2699 provides in pertinent part: 
(2)  
The superior court shall review and
approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this part. The
proposed settlement shall be submitted to the agency at the same time that it
is submitted to the court. 
(3)  
A copy of the superior court’s judgment
in any civil action filed pursuant to this part and any other order in that
action that either provides for or denies an award of civil penalties under
this code shall be submitted to the agency within 10 days after entry of the
judgment or order. 
(Lab. Code, § 2699, subds. (l)(2), (l)(3).)  
While PAGA requires court review and
approval of settlements, it does not specify the standard or criteria for such
review. (Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 56, 75.) Thus, “a
trial court should evaluate a PAGA settlement to determine whether it is fair,
reasonable, and adequate in view of PAGA's purposes to remediate present labor
law violations, deter future ones, and to maximize enforcement of state labor
laws.” (Id., at p. 77.) To determine if a PAGA settlement is fair, reasonable
and adequate, courts consider factors “including the strength of the
plaintiff's case, the risk, the stage of the proceeding, the complexity and
likely duration of further litigation, and the settlement amount.” (Id., at
p. 75.) Lastly, courts will also consider if the settlement is “adequate
in view of PAGA's purposes to remediate present labor law violations, deter
future ones, and to maximize enforcement of state labor laws.” (Ibid.)
In considering the amount of settlement, the court is mindful that
compromise is inherent and necessary in the settlement process. (Wershba v.
Apple Computer, Inc. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 224, 250.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff moves for court approval of
PAGA settlement under Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (l). 
1)      Summary of
Settlement 
The parties have agreed to settle the matter
for the gross amount of $20,000. (Bluer Decl., Ex. C, § 4.02, subd. (a).) From
this, litigation
costs totaling $1,635.00, comprised of a $1,500.00 settlement administration
fee and $135.00 in costs advanced by Plaintiffs’ counsel, would be deducted. (Id.,
¶ 13.) This would leave
$18,365.00, from which Plaintiffs’ counsel would take a 1/3 contingency fee,
i.e., $6,121.00. (Id.) This would then leave $12,244.00 to be divided
75/25 between the Labor and Workforce Development Agency (LWDA) and the
aggrieved employees, respectively, per Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (i). (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (i).)[1] Thus, the sum of $9,183.00
is payable to the LWDA, and $3,061.00 will be divided among 16 employees. (Bluer
Decl., ¶¶ 4, 15; Id., Ex. C, § 1.01, subd. (a).) The Court also
notes that Plaintiffs separately settled their individual claims with
Defendants for $77,700.00 and $107,300.00 for Plaintiffs Jiang and Li,
respectively. (Bluer Decl., ¶ 15.) 
2)     
Notice to the LWDA 
Labor Code section 2699(l)(2) requires
that the settlement be provided to the Labor Workforce Development Agency
(LWDA) at the same time it is presented to the Court. (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd.
(l)(2).) Plaintiffs presented no evidence that the notice of the original
settlement was provided to the LWDA at the same time it was presented to the
Court. (See generally, Bluer Decl.) This by itself is sufficient grounds to
deny the motion. 
3)     
Division of Civil Penalties 
"[C]ivil penalties recovered by
aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows: 75 percent to the Labor
and Workforce Development Agency for enforcement of labor laws, including the
administration of this part, and for education of employers and employees about
their rights and responsibilities under this code, to be continuously
appropriated to supplement and not supplant the funding to the agency for those
purposes; and 25 percent to the aggrieved employees." (Lab. Code, § 2699,
subd. (i).) 
As shown above, the settlement properly
divides the net amount of civil penalties between the LWDA and aggrieved
employees. 
4)     
Breadth of Release 
The release in the settlement agreement
is as follows: 
Upon
Court approval of the Settlement, dismissal of the Action, and subject to
Defendants’ funding in full of the PAGA Gross Settlement Amount, Plaintiffs and
the Aggrieved Employees will fully and finally release and discharge Defendants
and its former, present, and future owners, parents, affiliates, and
subsidiaries, Tong Wu, and all of their current, former, and future officers,
directors, members, managers, partners, shareholders, agents, employees, joint
ventures, successors, assigns, attorneys, accountants, insurers, or legal
representatives (the “Released Parties”), from all claims, rights, demands,
liabilities, and causes of action for civil penalties under the PAGA that arose
during the PAGA Release Period that were alleged in the Action, including but
not limited to the following claims: (a) failure to pay for all hours worked,
including at the correct rate of pay, including minimum wages and overtime
wages; (b) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements; (c) failure to
maintain accurate records; (d) failure to timely pay all wages owed each pay
period and upon separation; (e) violations of paid sick leave laws and
regulations; (f) violations of Labor Code section 1102.5; (g) all claims for
PAGA penalties that could have been premised on the facts, claims, causes of
action, or legal theories described above; and (h) all other claims under PAGA
that could have been premised on the facts, claims, causes of action, or legal
theories described above and in Plaintiffs’ LWDA Letter and the operative
Complaint, including but not limited to Labor Code sections 201, 202, 203, 204,
210, 218.5, 218.6, 226, 226.3, 246.5, 510, 558, 1102.5, 1174.5, 2698, and 2699
(the “Released Claims”). 
Plaintiffs
and the State of California shall be deemed to have, and by operation of the
Order and Final Judgment granting approval of this Agreement, shall have fully,
finally, and forever released, relinquished, and discharged each and all of the
Released Parties from the Released Claims that arose during the PAGA Release
Period. As a result of this release, the Aggrieved Employees will be unable to
bring a claim under, or recover in any other claim brought under the
PAGA for any violations of the Released Claims that took place
during the PAGA Period. 
(Bluer Decl., Ex. C, § 6.01.)

The Court finds the settlement
agreement's release to be fair, as it is limited to PAGA claims for penalties
based on facts alleged in the complaint limited to the PAGA Release Period,
i.e. May 26, 2022 through the date the Court approves the PAGA settlement.
(Bluer Decl., Ex. C, § 1.01, subd. (a).) This release language also does not
include any individual non-PAGA claims within its scope, which is particularly
important for the absent aggrieved employees. 
5)     
Fair, Reasonable, and Adequate 
Plaintiffs argues that the settlement is
just and in the public interest considering the small number of employees in
this PAGA class, i.e., 16. Plaintiffs note that Defendants have disputed many
of the allegations and that many of the alleged violations could not have been
proven without extensive litigation. Plaintiffs indicate that many of the
several alleged PAGA violations were involved one-time penalties, which were
given less weight. Plaintiffs state that the evidence did not sufficiently show
the willful intent necessary to prevail on some of the claims, e.g., sick leave
retaliation, whistle blower retaliation, and waiting time penalties. Plaintiffs
suspect that continued litigation would have been cost prohibitive. Plaintiffs
therefore contend the settlement amount of $20,000.00 reasonably values the
alleged PAGA violations. (Motion, 4:23-5:18.) 
Plaintiffs note that Plaintiffs secured
a sizeable amount in light of the small number of aggrieved employees and pay
periods and is in line with similar settlements for these types of claims.
Plaintiffs also contend these PAGA penalties would constitute an unexpected
windfall to the aggrieved employees, who typically do not bring individual
lawsuits seeking PAGA penalties only. Plaintiffs note that the settlement also
requires that each employee receive a notice that describes this litigation and
the settlement amount they are receiving, which will educate aggrieved
employees as to the requirements of the Labor Code and thereby promote the
public interest consistent with PAGA’s purpose. Plaintiffs also argue that
public policy strongly favors the settlement of litigation. (Motion, 6:2-14.) 
Under Dunk v. Ford Motor Co.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, a presumption of fairness exists where "(1)
the settlement is reached through arm's-length bargaining; (2) investigation
and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act
intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4) the
percentage of objectors is small." (Id., at p. 1802.) 
The settlement appears to have been
reached through arm's-length bargaining. The parties attended mediation with Stephen
Mehta, Esq. in April 2024, wherein the parties entered into settlement
agreements for both the individual and PAGA claims. (Bluer Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs’
counsel describes the investigation and discovery performed in the case,
including investigation into the factual and legal issues, interviewing
Plaintiffs who do not speak fluent English, working on case strategy and
analysis, drafting formal discovery requests, preparing informal discovery
requests and reviewing documents informally provided by Plaintiffs, meeting and
conferring with opposing counsel related to discovery, preparing for and
attending mediation, and preparing the settlement agreement and the instant
motion. (Bluer Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) Plaintiff's counsel has extensive experience
with this type of litigation. (Bluer Decl., ¶ 11.) There are no objectors, but
as noted above, there is also no evidence Plaintiffs gave notice of settlement
to the LWDA as required under Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (l)(2). It
is thus unclear if the LWDA or some other interested party might have an
objection to this proposed settlement. 
6)      Civil
Penalties 
Plaintiffs’ briefing allows this Court
to adequately determine whether the investigation and discovery by Plaintiffs
supports the settlement. Plaintiffs seek civil penalties for seven different
violations of the Labor Code. Plaintiffs considered that several of the alleged
PAGA violations were one-time penalties, such as claims for sick leave
retaliation, whistle-blower retaliation, and waiting time penalties. These
claims were given less weight. Further, Plaintiffs considered that the evidence
reviewed did not sufficiently show the willful intent necessary to prevail on
these claims. Plaintiffs indicate that continued litigation might have been
cost prohibitive considering the small number of aggrieved employees and pay
periods and issues with some of Plaintiffs’ claims, and that Defendants dispute
many of the alleged violations. (Motion, 4:24-6:2.) Though Plaintiffs believe
they had a reasonable chance of prevailing on these claims, substantial costs
and legal fees would have been incurred. Rather than increasing the total net amount of civil penalties (i.e., after
fees and costs), the anticipated expenses could have rendered the litigation
impractical by causing the legal fees and costs to “eat into” a future settlement
of the civil penalties. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the
civil penalties agreed upon are fair and reasonable. 
7)      Attorney Fees
and Costs 
Under Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (g), an employee who
prevails in a PAGA action is entitled to an award of attorney fees and costs. (Lab.
Code, § 2699, subd. (g).) In reviewing fee enhancements, the court considers
the risk of contingency, exceptional skill, and other factors such as the
novelty or difficulty of the issues. (See Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1138 (Ketchum); Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d
25, 49.) However, factors such as experience and skill are not considered if already
recognized by the lodestar. (Ketchum, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
1138.) 
Here, Plaintiffs’ lodestar is based on the billing rate of
Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Bluer Decl., ¶ 11.)
Thus, the Court finds the skill and experience of Plaintiffs’ counsel has
already been accounted for by the lodestar. The Court further finds that the
Plaintiffs’ counsel seeking a percentage (33%), after deduction for litigation
costs, instead of the lodestar amount is proper considering the proposed
settlement amount of $20,000.00, which would otherwise be eaten up by
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s lodestar amount of approximately $18,000.00, i.e., 40
hours x $450.00. (Bluer Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) 
As for costs, Plaintiffs provided an itemization of the costs
incurred in this case, namely $135.00 in costs incurred through submitting the
online PAGA claim notice ($75.00) and the filing fee for this motion ($60.00),
plus $1,500.00 to compensate the settlement administrator. (Bluer Decl., ¶¶ 12-13;
Id., Ex. C, § 4.02, subd. (f).) The Court notes however, that Plaintiffs
have not identified who the settlement administrator is, nor does the
settlement agreement identify who it is, so the Court is unable to determine
whether that is a reasonable fee to incur here. (See Bluer Decl., ¶¶ 12-13; Id.,
Ex. C, § 4.02, subd. (f).) 
Accordingly, the Court does not find the award of attorney fees
and costs in the settlement agreement to be fair and reasonable. 
8)      Service Award 
Plaintiffs separately settled this matter and are not seeking a
service award. (See Motion, p. 2, fn. 1.) 
9)      Settlement Administration and
Costs       
The proposed settlement mentions a settlement administrator but
does not identify who that is. (See Bluer Decl., Ex. C, § 4.02, subds. (f),
(h)-(l); Id., § 4.03.) Plaintiffs do not provide any declarations or
evidence from the proposed settlement administrator either. While the Court
finds the proposed amount of $1,500.00 to otherwise be fair and reasonable in
light of the total settlement amount, the Court is unable to assess the
qualifications of the proposed settlement administrator and otherwise determine
the propriety of appointing the proposed settlement administrator for that fee. 
Accordingly, the Court declines to appoint a settlement
administrator at this time. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.


