 Case Number:  22PSCV01609    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  H B.R.
Building Resources Company v. SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, et al., Case No. 22PSCV01609 
ORDER ON DEMURRERS
          1.       Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
B.R. Building Resources Company’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint filed by SA
Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, et al. is SUSTAINED, with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
          2.       Cross-Defendant
Juan Banos’ Demurrer to Cross-Complaint filed by SA Hospital Acquisition Group,
LLC, et al. is SUSTAINED, with 20 days’ leave to amend.
I.        Background 
This
case involves a dispute regarding the alleged diversion of funds that had been
designated for various construction projects to improve South City Hospital in
St. Louis, Missouri.
Plaintiff
B.R. Building Resources Company (“B.R.”) alleges in a First Amended Complaint
that defendants Lawrence Feigen and Jeffrey Ahlholm—the owners and agents of
the entities that own and operate South City Hospital, SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings,
LLC, and SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings (the “SA Hospital Entities”)—requested
on more than one occasion that B.R. transfer portions of the funds designated
for the construction projects in order to cover hospital expenses, including
payroll expenses. B.R. alleges that it acquiesced to these requests only to
later learn that contrary to Feigen and Ahlholm’s representations, the entity
providing the funding for the construction, Twain Financial Partners (“Twain”),
had not approved of using the funds in this way, leading Twain to stop funding
the projects altogether. As a result of the lack of funding, B.R. claims, among
other things, that it has been unable to pay rental fees on equipment it leased
in connection with the construction projects.[FN] 
The
SA Hospital Entities, Feigen, and Ahlholm (together “Defendants”) allege in a
cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”) that B.R. and B.R.’s Chief Executive
Officer, Juan Banos, among other things, mishandled and misallocated the
construction funds intended for hospital improvement projects. 
Pending
before the Court are: (1) B.R.’s demurrer to the second through fifth causes of
action in Defendants’ cross-complaint and (2) Banos’ demurrer to the second
through fourth causes of action. For the reasons stated herein, the demurrers
are sustained, with 20 days’ leave to amend.

 
II.      Legal Standard 
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
 
III.     Discussion
 
          A.       Request
to Strike the Cross-Complaint
At
the outset, B.R. and Banos each separately request that the Court strike the Cross-Complaint
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 436 on the basis that it was not filed
until September 23, 2024, in violation of the Court’s order directing Defendants
“to file the Cross-Complaint by no later than September 18, 2024.” (Notice,
2:22-25). The Court declines to do so.
 
          B.       B.R’s
Demurrer

B.R.
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e), to the second through fifth
causes of action in the Cross-Complaint, on the basis that they each fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action. B.R. also demurs, per
subsection (f), to the second, third and fifth causes of action on the basis of
uncertainty. 
B.R.
further contends that the Cross-Complaint fails to state any facts sufficient
to allege any theory of liability against Banos. The Court declines to
entertain this argument, on the basis that Banos is not a demurring party here.
Banos has filed his own separate demurrer, which the Court will address below. 
 
Second
and Third Causes of Action (i.e., Fraud in the Concealment and Fraud in the
Deceit, Respectively)
B.R.
contends that the second and third causes of action have not been pled with the
requisite specificity. The Court agrees. “Fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the
nature of the charge made.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown &
Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th
at 645 [emphasis theirs].)
Defendants have alleged “on information and belief” that B.R.
“submitted inaccurate invoices that served as cover for B.R.’s impermissible
uses of monies from the Construction Fund,” including “cover[ing] its own
payroll expenses and corporate expenses” and “pay[ing] for projects unrelated
to Improvements at South City Hospital.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 28, 53, 54.) They
allege that they received an “itemization” from B.R. on September 26, 2022 that
“demonstrated that B.R. was misappropriating funds and allocating funds to uses
which had not been approved.” (Id. at ¶¶ 34 and 40.) Defendants,
however, fail to provide any specificity as to what the itemization included
that would “demonstrate” B.R.’s alleged misappropriation of funds and wrongful
allocation. 
Defendants
further allege, again “on information and belief,” that the itemization
“contained illegitimate surcharges and suspicious payments to B.R.’s affiliated
vendors.” (Id., ¶¶ 40 and 41.) They do not, however, provide any facts
in support of these conclusory statements or in support of their conclusory
statement that B.R.’s itemization “failed to account for all of the funds that
it received from the Construction Fund.” (Id., ¶ 41.) 
Defendants
base their fraud claims on the above itemization, and allege that it evidences
specific instances of fraud, but fail to offer any specificity describing those
allegations of fraud. They also allege that they requested “bridge financing”
in the total amount of $600,000.00, which they “understood that they were
receiving . . . from BR Capital,” but that “[u]nbeknownst to [them], Banos
and/or B.R. provided them with the sum of $600,000 from funds B.R. [Building]
received from the Construction Funds[,]” which information was somehow
“concealed.” (Id., ¶ 32.) No further information is provided. 
The
Court sustains B.R.’s demurrer to the second and third causes of action on this
basis. 
 
Fourth
Cause of Action (i.e., An Accounting) 
B.R.
next argues that the fourth cause of action has not been sufficiently pled. The
Court agrees. “A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) “An action for accounting
is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain
or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Id.) “Equitable principles govern, and the plaintiff must show the
legal remedy is inadequate. Thus, where the books and records are so
complicated that an action demanding a fixed sum is impracticable, an
accounting is appropriate. If an ascertainable sum is owed, an action for an
accounting is not proper.” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1137.) 
B.R.
has failed to allege that the books and records are so complicated that a legal
remedy is inadequate. The Court sustains B.R.’s demurrer to the fourth cause of
action on this basis. 
 
Fifth
Cause of Action (i.e., Conversion) 
B.R. further argues
that the fifth cause of action has not been sufficiently pled. The Court
agrees. “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of
another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership
or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a
wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v.
Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) 
“Money may be the subject of
conversion if the claim involves a specific, identifiable sum. . .” (Welco
Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 209.) “[A]ctions for
the conversion of money have not been permitted when the amount of money
involved is not a definite sum.” (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 396.) 
In
Vu v. California Commerce Club (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 229, the court
affirmed a summary judgment on a conversion claim against two gamblers who lost
“approximately $1.4 million” and “approximately $120,000,” respectively,
stating that “neither by pleading nor responsive proof did plaintiffs identify
any specific, identifiable sums that the club took from them. That rendered the
generalized claim for money not actionable as conversion.” (Id. at 235.) 
Likewise,
Defendants here fail to specifically identify the amount of money converted,
instead alleging that B.R. “absconded with approximately $1,996,644.56
worth of monies.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 74 [emphasis added].) 
The
Court sustains B.R.’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action on this basis. 

          C.       Banos’
Demurrer 
Banos
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e) and (f), to the second through
fourth causes of action in the Cross-Complaint, on the basis that they each
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and are
uncertain. 
Banos
argues that the Cross-Complaint fails to allege any facts sufficient to state a
claim against him on the basis of alter ego. Defendants, in turn, argue that
they have not asserted an alter ego theory of liability as against Banos but
seek to impose personal liability against him. (Opp., 4:13-15 and 19-20.) In
any case, the claims against Banos fail for the same reasons identified above
in connection with the discussion of B.R.’s demurrer. 
The
Court thus sustains Banos’ demurrer to the second through fourth causes of
action.

 
IV.     Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the
demurrers to the Cross-Complaint are sustained. The Court grants
Defendants 20 days’ leave to amend. (City of Stockton v. Superior Ct.
(2007) 42 Cal. 4th 730, 747 [“[L]eave to amend is liberally allowed as a matter
of fairness, unless the [pleading] shows on its face that it is incapable of
amendment.”].)  


