 Case Number:  24LBCV00077    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S25 Factual AllegationsThis lawsuit arises from a real estate transaction. Plaintiffs allege they entered into negotiations in April 2023 concerning the purchase of property owned by Defendant Monica Braun, Trustee of Monica L Braun Revocable Trust Dated March 16, 2006 (“Defendant Braun”). During this transaction, Defendant IRG served as Defendant Braun’s broker. Defendants Creason and Ireland were salespersons working for Defendant IRG. Defendant CREC served as Plaintiffs’ broker with Defendant Fischer and Butler acting as salespersons for Defendant CREC. (Complaint ¶¶ 14-15, 17.)Plaintiffs allege Defendants IRC, Ireland and Creason inspected the property on or about April 23, 2023, and subsequently executed the seller’s Agent Visual Inspection Disclosure (“SAVID”). As part of the SAVID, Defendants IRG, Ireland and Creason represented they conducted a visual inspection that was reasonably competent and diligent. Plaintiffs claim, however, these Defendants failed to disclose a load-bearing wall was removed from the living room in addition to other modifications made to the property. On April 24, 2023, Defendant Bruan executed a Real Estate Transfer Disclosure Statement, Seller Property Questionnaire and Exempt Seller Disclosure (“Disclosure Forms”). On April 27, 2023, Plaintiffs allege Defendants CREC and Fisher also inspected the property and on May 17 executed the Buyer’s Agent Visual Inspection Disclosure (“BAVID”). Plaintiffs claim these Defendants also failed to disclose a load-bearing wall was removed from the living room. On April 24, relying on the Disclosure Forms, SAVID and BAVID, Plaintiffs entered into a written agreement with Defendant Bruan to purchase the property. (Complaint ¶¶ 18-21.)Plaintiffs further allege, on April 27, 2023, Defendant R I Home Inspection inspected the property. Plaintiffs’ claims Defendant R I Home Inspection failed to identify or described the removal of the load bearing wall and failed to recommend an evaluation of the property by structural engineers. Additionally, on that same day, Defendant Independent Sewer Camera Services performed a sewage line inspection of the property and issued a report confirming no obstructions or related issues with the pipe. (Complaint ¶¶ 22-23.)Escrow closed on May 18, 2023. (Complaint ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs later discovered that the property had draining and plumbing issues in addition to a load-bearing wall removed. Plaintiffs assert that none of these issues were ever disclosed by any of the Defendants. (Complaint ¶¶ 27, 31, 35.) Since purchasing the property, Plaintiffs allege they have experienced multiple floodings, discovered several unpermitted modifications to the property and found mold, which had been painted over, in one of the bathrooms. Plaintiffs believe Defendant Bruan and other named Defendants were aware of these issues and failed to disclose the problems. (Complaint, ¶¶ 31-42)Plaintiffs now bring suit for (1) breach of contract against Defendant Braun; (2) failure to disclose pursuant to Civ. Code §§ 1102, et seq.; (3) failure to disclose under common law; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5) concealment; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) breach of contract against Defendant R1 Home Inspection; (8) negligence; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; and (10) constructive fraud.1. Defendant Butler’s DemurrerDefendant Rose Butler’s Demurrer to the Complaint is moot as Plaintiffs dismissed Defendant Butler on July 3, 2024.2. Motion to Strike Portions of the Complainta. Meet and ConferPrior to filing a motion to strike, the moving party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 435.5, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2) & (3). Counsel for Defendants CREC, Butler and Fisher states that he emailed and called Plaintiffs’ counsel multiple times to meet and confer before filing a demurrer and motion to strike; despite these attempts, Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond. (Smith Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5, Exh. A.). These requirements are deemed satisfied.b. Legal StandardsA party may move to strike matters from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false or improper. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§435, 436, subd. (a).) Motion to strike may also target all or any part of pleadings not filed or drawn in conformity with the applicable laws, rules or orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) A motion to strike is the proper procedure for testing the adequacy of a punitive damages allegation because punitive damages are not a cause of action. (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.)“Inasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the defendant “has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” the cases have uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or recklessnessis insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.” (Dawes v. Superior Ct. (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87). To obtain punitive damages in an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, a plaintiff must demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) The clear and convincing evidence standard “requires a finding of high probability . . . ‘so clear as to leave no substantial doubt’; sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211.)“Not only must there by circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166.) “[P]laintiff must allege specific facts showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious (e.g., that defendant acted with the intent to inflict great bodily harm on plaintiff or to destroy plaintiff's property or reputation). (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643 [allegations that defendant's conduct was intentional, willful, malicious, performed with ill will toward plaintiffs and in conscious disregard of plaintiffs' rights did not satisfy specific pleading requirement]; Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, 6:158.)Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)c. ReasoningDefendants CREC, Fisher and Butler seek to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint related to Plaintiffs’ request for exemplary and punitive damages (Complaint, ¶ 11, 3:20-28; ¶ 93, 15:25-28; ¶ 109, 18:1-3; Prayer for Relief ¶ 5, 22:18.) Defendants maintain there are no factual allegations to support that the conduct of these Defendants rose to a level of “fraudulent, malicious, willful, wanton and/or in conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights.” (Motion, p.7:14-15.) Mere allegations that Defendants CREC and Fisher failed to conduct a reasonable inspection and did not disclose defects, which Defendants argue were not visually apparent, for the purpose of merely obtaining a commission does not to the level of conduct that could be described as “oppressive, fraudulent or malicious.”Regarding Defendant CREC, the company maintains punitive damages do not to apply in this situation as there are no allegations that: (1) the company had advance knowledge of the unfitness of its employee Defendant Fisher, (2) the company employed Defendant Fisher with conscious disregard of the rights and safety or others, and (3) or that the company authorized or ratified Defendant Fisher’s “wrongful conduct” for which damages are sought. (See Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b) [requiring the employer to have advanceknowledge of the employee’s unfitness and employ that employee with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorize or ratify the wrongful conduct of that employee for which damages are awarded].)In response, Plaintiffs insist the following allegations support a claim for exemplary and punitive damages: (1) Defendants CREC and Fisher concealed the material fact that the Subject Property had plumbing and drainage issues from Plaintiffs (See Complaint, ¶87); (2) Defendants CREC and Fisher have a duty to disclose to Plaintiffs as Plaintiffs’ agents (See Complaint, ¶¶4-5, ¶17); (3) Defendants CREC and Fisher intended to deceive Plaintiffs by concealing the plumbing and drainages issues to receive their commission (See Complaint, ¶89); (4) Plaintiffs were not aware that the Subject Property had plumbing and drainage issues (See Complaint, ¶90); and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the plumbing and drainage issues, Plaintiffs sustained damage (See Complaint, ¶91). Plaintiffs also argue that it is premature to request Plaintiffs to allege specific acts of Defendant CREC which ratified its employee’s conduct without first being permitted to conduct the further discovery.Tentative Ruling:As to Defendant CREC and Fisher, Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to support the allegations that these Defendants were aware of the issues of the property, actively concealed structural problems of the property with the intention of depriving Plaintiffs of property or otherwise causing injury or acted maliciously or in conscious disregard to Plaintiffs’ rights. Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant CREC’s and Fisher’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint as to these Defendants only. Plaintiffs are given 20 days with leave to amend.As to Defendant Butler, the Motion to Strike is moot as Defendant Butler was previously dismissed from this case.