  Case Number:  23STCV18778    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  39 Philip
A. Lewis v. New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church
Case
No. 23STCV18778
Special
Motion to Dismiss Cross-Complaint
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Philip A. Lewis (“Plaintiff”), a minister, filed this action against his
employer, New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church (“Defendant”), asserting
causes of action for breach of an employment agreement.  The Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer to
this cause of action, finding that the claim is not precluded by the “ministerial
exception” to the state’s employment laws. 
Specifically, the Court found as follows:
 
“Plaintiff alleges that Defendant terminated him without
following the proper procedures in the contract and bylaws.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 8, 11.)  The first amended complaint is not predicated
upon any alleged issues with Plaintiff’s performance or qualifications.  Therefore, the only inquiry is whether
Defendant followed an objective set of procedural requirements, which does not
implicate religious matters.  For this
reason, the demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.”
 
(Court’s Minute Order, dated December 6, 2023, p. 3.)  Following this ruling, Defendant filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff.  (See
Defendant’s Cross-Complaint, filed on January 4, 2024.)  Defendant asserts a single cause of action
for breach of contract, alleging that Plaintiff breached the agreement by
failing to perform his administrative duties. 
Now, Plaintiff moves to dismiss this cross-complaint under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16.  The motion is
denied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
In ruling on a defendant's special
motion to strike, the trial court uses a two-step process. First, the defendant
must show that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance
of the defendant's right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitutions in connection with a public issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the defendant carries that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(3).)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that the cross-complaint is subject to an anti-SLAPP motion
because it was filed in response to Plaintiff’s complaint for breach of
contract.  Plaintiff’s counsel is
incorrect.  A claim is subject to an
anti-SLAPP motion only if the conduct constituting the protected activity
“itself is the wrong complained of.”  (Park
v. Board of Trustees of Calif. State Univ. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1060,
emphasis deleted.)  Defendant’s claim is
not predicated upon Plaintiff having filed the lawsuit; the claim is predicated
upon the alleged breach of contract in Plaintiff failing to perform
administrative duties.  Moreover, if the
Court adopted Plaintiff’s argument, it would effectively hold that no defendant
could file a compulsory cross-complaint. 
Indeed, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the contract;
Defendant now alleges that Plaintiff breached the same contract.  Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
not satisfied the first prong of section 425.16.  
 
            Defendant
seeks attorneys’ fees in the amount of $1,400. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(c)(1), the Court finds that
Defendant is entitled to attorneys’ fees, as this motion was frivolous.  The Court must award fees to Defendant.  (Foundation for Taxpayer & Consumer
Rights v. Garamendi (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1388.)       
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court denies Plaintiff’s special
motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16.
 
            2.         The Court orders Plaintiff to pay Defendant
attorneys’ fees in the amount of $1,400, by and through counsel, within thirty
(30) days.
 
            3.         Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 
 