  Case Number:  23PSCV00879    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  H Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jose Luis Alcaraz’s  Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED, with leave to amend. Background   Plaintiff Jose Luis Alcaraz (“Alcaraz”) alleges as follows:  In 2019, Alcaraz became interested in purchasing the  property located at 1061 Weber Street in Pomona (the “subject property”).  Patricia B. Arrieta (“Arrieta”) told Alcaraz that her friend, Julie Tena  (“Tena”), was a loan officer and would help Alcaraz to secure funds to purchase  the subject property. Tena subsequently told Alcaraz that he would not qualify  for an affordable loan rate on his own and suggested that Arrieta also be  listed on the title to obtain a better rate.  Arrieta agreed to act as a straw person on the condition  that Alcaraz reimburse her for any out-of-pocket expenses; Alcaraz agreed. Alcaraz,  in turn, requested that Arrieta transfer her interest in the subject property  upon his demand; Arrieta agreed. Before escrow closed, Tena suggested that  another person take Alcaraz’s place on title to obtain a desirable loan rate. Alcaraz’s  friend, Ernesto E. Aguirre Morales (“Morales”), agreed to act as the second  straw person on the same terms and conditions to which Arrieta agreed. Alcaraz paid the down payment and made all mortgage  payments for the subject property. Neither Arrieta nor Morales resided at the  subject property. In 2022, Morales transferred his interest in the subject  property to Alcaraz when Alcaraz sought to refinance the mortgage on the  subject property. Arrieta has been collecting rent from the tenants residing at  the subject property and refuses to transfer her interest in the subject  property.  On March 24, 2023, Alcaraz filed a complaint, asserting  causes of action against Arrieta, Does 1-20, and Does 21-40 for (1) quiet  title, (2) partition of real property, and (3) accounting. On July 12, 2024, Arrieta filed a cross-complaint,  asserting causes of action against Alcaraz for (1) fraud, (2) intentional  infliction of emotional distress, (3) breach of contract, (4) partition of real  property, and (5) accounting. In her cross-complaint, Arrieta alleges that Alcaraz  fraudulently induced Arrieta to use her credit and first-time home buyer’s  status to assist Alcaraz in obtaining the subject property.  The Final Status Conference is set for December 9, 2024.  Trial is set for December 16, 2024.  For the reasons stated herein, the Court grants Alcaraz’s  motion for judgment on the pleadings but grants Arrieta leave to amend the  cross-complaint.  Legal Standard  The rules governing demurrers are generally applicable to motions  for judgment on the pleadings. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)  67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (d) [“The grounds for  motion . . . shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any  matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion  is based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice . . ., the  matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points  and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit”].)  A motion by a plaintiff may only be made on the grounds  “that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of  action against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.  (c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant may only be made on the grounds that (1)  “[t]he court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged  in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he complaint does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438,  subd. (c).)  Although a non-statutory motion “may be made at any time  either prior to the trial or at the trial itself” (Stoops v. Abbassi  (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [quotation marks and citation omitted]), a  statutory motion cannot be made after entry of a pretrial conference order or  30 days before the initial trial date, whichever is later, unless the court  otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).)  On “a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend  should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can  state a good cause of action.’” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Center (1993)  18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)    Discussion  Alcaraz moves the court, per Code of Civil Procedure § 438  and “any related law,” for judgment on the pleadings, on the basis that  Arrieta’s cross-complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action.   Alcaraz first asserts that all of Arrieta’s causes of  action are barred by Civil Code §§ 43.4 (“A fraudulent promise to marry or to  cohabit after marriage does not give rise to a cause of action for damages”)  and 43.5 (“No cause of action arises for: . . . (d) Breach of promise of  marriage”). The Court disagrees. “[T]he ‘anti-heart balm’ statutes have  been construed not to abolish causes of action to restore property acquired  through a fraudulent marriage promise; such actions have been justified on the  basis of preventing unjust enrichment.” (In re Marriage of Buckley  (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 927, 934).  Arrieta has not alleged that the underlying cause of her  injury was Alcaraz’s breach of promise of marriage; rather, Arrieta has alleged  that she was induced to use her good credit and status as a first-time home  buyer based on Alcaraz’s purportedly fraudulent misrepresentations that they  would be purchasing the property together for their mutual use and financial  benefit and that Alcaraz planned to have her removed from title.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 4, 5, 10, 18, 23, 24, 36, 37, 39 and 41.) The Court thus  rejects this ground for Alcaraz’s motion. Alcaraz next attacks each individual cause of action, asserting  that Arrieta has failed to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  The Court addresses each cause of action in turn.  First Cause of Action (i.e., Fraud)  As to the first cause of action, the Court agrees with  Alcaraz that Arrieta has failed to state a cause of action for fraud.  “The elements of fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false  representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (or  scienter); (3) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (4) justifiable  reliance; and (5) resulting damage.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana  Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory  allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th  631, 645.) “This particularity requirement necessitates facts which show how,  when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Id.  [internal quotations and citation omitted].)  Here, Arrieta’s fraud cause of action has not been pled  with the requisite specificity, particularly with respect to the specific fraudulent  representations that were allegedly made by Alcaraz. Accordingly, the Court  grants Alcaraz’s motion as to the first cause of action.  Second Cause of Action (i.e., Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress) The Court similarly concludes that Arrieta has failed to  state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  “A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional  distress exists when there is (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering  severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of  the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.” (Hughes v.  Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050 [internal quotations and citation  omitted].) As to “severe emotional distress,” the California Supreme  Court “has set a high bar” in that “[s]evere emotional distress means emotional  distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable  [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.” (Id. at  1051 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Here, Arrieta’s second cause of action does not  sufficiently allege conduct “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually  tolerated in a civilized community.” (Id. at 1050.)  It similarly does not allege facts meeting the  “high bar” set for severe and enduring emotional distress. (Id. at 1051.)  The Court thus grants Alcaraz’s motion as to this count.  Third Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of Contract)  As the third cause of action, the Court concludes that Alcaraz  has failed to state a cause of action for breach of contract.  “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract,  the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of  the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4)  the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224  Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  Here, Arrieta has not alleged that she has performed all  conditions on her part to be performed or that she was excused from  performance. Further, Arrieta has not addressed Alcaraz’s contention that her  breach of contract cause of action violates the Statute of Frauds. (See Civil  Code § 1624(a)(3) [“The following contracts are valid, unless they, or some  note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged  or by the party’s agent: . . . (3) An agreement for the leasing for a longer  period than one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest  therein . . .”].)  Accordingly, the Court grants Alcaraz’s motion as to the  third cause of action. Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., Partition of Real Property) As to the fourth cause of action, the Court agrees with Alcaraz  that Arrieta has failed to state a cause of action for partition. In an action for partition, the complaint must set forth:  (a)  A description of the property that is the subject of the action. In the case of  tangible personal property, the description shall include its usual location.  In the case of real property, the description shall include both its legal  description and its street address or common designation, if any.  (b) All interests the plaintiff has or claims in the  property.   (c)  All interests of record or actually known to the plaintiff that persons other  than the plaintiff have or claim in the property and that the plaintiff  reasonably believes will be materially affected by the action, whether the  names of such persons are known or unknown to the plaintiff.   (d)  The estate as to which partition is sought and a prayer for partition of the  interests therein.   (e)  Where the plaintiff seeks sale of the property, an allegation of the facts  justifying such relief in ordinary and concise language.   (Code of Civil Procedure § 872.230.)  Here, Arrieta has failed to allege facts supporting  subsections (b), (c) and (e); as such, the Court grants Alcaraz’s motion as to  the fourth cause of action.  Fifth Cause of Action (i.e., Accounting) As to the fifth and final cause of action, the Court agrees  with Alcaraz that Arrieta has failed to state a cause of action for accounting.    “The right to an accounting is derivative and depends on  the validity of a plaintiff's underlying claims.” (Duggal v. G.E. Capital  Communications Services, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 81, 95.) Accordingly, having granted the motion as to  the underlying claims, the Court grants Alcaraz’s motion for judgment on the  pleadings as to accounting.  Conclusion  For the reasons stated herein, the Court grants Alcaraz’s  motion for judgment on the pleadings and grants Arrieta’s request for leave to  amend the cross-complaint.    