  Case Number:  22STCV37612    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FRANK GALEAS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
SYNCREON TECHNOLOGY (USA), LLC,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV37612
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 7, 2025
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
            Plaintiff
Frank Galeas (“Plaintiff”) moves for preliminary approval of the class action
settlement between Plaintiff and Defendant Syncreon Technology (USA) LLC
(“Defendant”), conditional certification, approval of class notice, and setting
of final approval hearing date. 
 
The Court tentatively GRANTS the motion, contingent on the
parties’ provision of direct evidence of the class size or a reasonable
estimate of that size to establish the numerosity requirement as to class
certification.
 
The Court leaves the issues of attorney’s fees, costs, and
the service award to Plaintiff for the final hearing.
 
Background
 
This is an employment law class action.
 
Defendant is a supply chain and logistics company. Plaintiff
and the putative class members were employed by Defendant during the class
period of September 26, 2018 through 27, 2024.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on December 1, 2022. The
operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises
claims for (1) failure to pay all straight time wages; (2) failure to pay all
overtime wages; (3) failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to authorize
and permit rest periods; (5) failure to adopt a compliant sick pay/paid time
off policy; (6) knowing and intentional failure to comply with itemized
employee wage statement provisions; (7) failure to pay all wages due at the time
of termination of employment; (8) failure to reimburse/illegal deductions; (9)
failure to maintain required records; and (10) unfair competition. The FAC
withdrew Plaintiff’s PAGA claim which was included in the original Complaint.
 
On November 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for
preliminary approval. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“(a) Court approval after hearing
 
A settlement or
compromise of an entire class action, or of a cause of action in a class
action, or as to a party, requires the approval of the court after hearing.
 
(b) Attorney's fees
 
Any agreement,
express or implied, that has been entered into with respect to the payment of
attorney's fees or the submission of an application for the approval of
attorney's fees must be set forth in full in any application for approval of
the dismissal or settlement of an action that has been certified as a class
action.
 
(c) Preliminary approval of settlement
 
Any party to a
settlement agreement may serve and file a written notice of motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement. The settlement agreement and proposed
notice to class members must be filed with the motion, and the proposed order
must be lodged with the motion.
 
(d) Order certifying provisional settlement class
 
The court may make
an order approving or denying certification of a provisional settlement class
after the preliminary settlement hearing.
 
(e) Order for final approval hearing
 
If the court grants
preliminary approval, its order must include the time, date, and place of the
final approval hearing; the notice to be given to the class; and any other
matters deemed necessary for the proper conduct of a settlement hearing.
 
(f) Notice to class of final approval hearing
 
If the court has
certified the action as a class action, notice of the final approval hearing
must be given to the class members in the manner specified by the court. The
notice must contain an explanation of the proposed settlement and procedures
for class members to follow in filing written objections to it and in arranging
to appear at the settlement hearing and state any objections to the proposed
settlement.
 
(g) Conduct of final approval hearing
 
Before final
approval, the court must conduct an inquiry into the fairness of the proposed
settlement.
 
(h) Judgment and retention of jurisdiction to enforce
 
If the court
approves the settlement agreement after the final approval hearing, the court
must make and enter judgment. The judgment must include a provision for the
retention of the court's jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the terms of
the judgment. The court may not enter an order dismissing the action at the
same time as, or after, entry of judgment.”
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.769(a).)
 
Discussion
 
SETTLEMENT CLASS DEFINITION
 
·       
“Class
Members” or “Settlement Class” means all persons employed by Defendant in
California as non-exempt employees during the Class Period (defined as September
26, 2018 through 27, 2024). (Mara
Decl., Ex. 1 (“Settlement”) ¶¶ 1.4, 1.11.) It shall be an opt-out class. (Settlement
¶ 1.25.) The parties estimate that there are 414 class members. (Mullins Decl.,
Ex. C at p. 1.)
·       
“Class Period” means the period of September 26,
2018 through 27, 2024. (Settlement ¶ 1.11.)
·       
“Participating Class Member” means a Class
Member who do not submit a valid and timely Request for Exclusion. (Settlement
¶ 1.26.) 
 
TERMS OF SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
 
The essential terms are as
follows:
·       
The Gross Settlement Amount is $520,000.00,
non-reversionary. (Settlement ¶
3.1.)
o  
Escalator Clause: Defendant certifies that the
number of Workweeks for all class members during the Class Period is 24,546. If
the number of Workweeks during the Class Period should exceed the Certified
Workweek Amount by more than ten percent (10%), the Gross Settlement Amount
shall be increased by the percent difference in excess of 10%. (Settlement ¶
4.1.) For example, if there is a 12% increase in the total Workweeks, the Gross
Settlement Amount will increase by 2%. (Ibid.)
·       
The Net Settlement Amount (“Net Settlement”) (estimated
to be $296,666.67) is the Gross Settlement Amount minus the following:
o  
Up to $173,333.33 (33 1/3%) for attorney
fees (Settlement ¶ 3.2.2); 
o  
Up to $30,000 for litigation costs (Ibid);

o  
Up to $10,000 for a Class Representative
Service Payment to Plaintiff (Settlement ¶ 3.2.1); and
o  
Up to $10,000 for settlement
administration costs (Settlement ¶ 3.2.3).
·       
Defendant pay the employer payroll taxes on the
portion of the Individual Settlement Awards that constitutes wages and these
taxes shall be paid by the Defendant in addition to the Gross Settlement
Amount. (Settlement ¶ 3.1.)
·       
There is no claim form requirement. (Settlement
¶¶ 7.5.1, 7.5.2.)
·       
Individual
Settlement Payment Calculation: From the Net Settlement Amount, the Administrator
will calculate each Individual Settlement Award by dividing the Net Settlement
Amount by the total number of and then multiplying the resulting value by the
number of Workweeks worked by each Class Member. (Settlement ¶ 3.2.4.) Defendant
will provide the total number of Workweeks for each Class Member to the Administrator.
(Settlement ¶ 4.2.) The Administrator will issue checks for the Individual
Class Payments. (Settlement ¶ 4.4.1.)
o  
Should
any of the following occur, the Administrator will proportionately increase the
estimated Individual Settlement Award of each Participating Class Member to
ensure that the entire Net Settlement Amount is distributed to Participating
Class Members: (1) any Class Member submits a timely and valid, or otherwise
accepted, Request for Exclusion following the provision of Settlement Notices
and expiration of the Response Deadline; (2) the Court approves the Class
Representative Service Award in an amount less than those requested by
Plaintiff, as detailed herein; (3) the Court approves a Class Counsel Award in
an amount less than that requested by Plaintiff, as detailed herein; and/or (4)
the Court approves Settlement Administration Costs in an amount less than that
requested by Plaintiff. (Settlement ¶ 3.2.1, 3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.6.)
o  
Tax
Allocation: Each
Participating Class Member’s Individual Class Payments will be allocated as
follows: 20% as wages, 80% as interest and penalties. The Wage Portion will be
subject to wage withholdings. (Settlement ¶ 3.2.5.)
·       
Response
Deadline: The deadline by which Class Members must
postmark or fax to the Administrator a valid Request for Exclusion, objection,
or Workweeks dispute will be forty-five (45) calendar days from the initial
mailing of the Settlement Notices by the Administrator. (Settlement ¶ 1.33.) Class
Members who are sent a re-mailed Settlement Notice shall have their Response
Deadline extended by 14 calendar days from the date the Administrator re-mails
the Settlement Notice. (Settlement ¶ 7.4.4.) 
o   If 10% or more of Class members opt-out of
the Class, Defendant shall have option to withdraw from Settlement Agreement
within 7 days after receiving from the Administrator the final list of optouts.
(Settlement ¶ 9.) 
·       
Funding of Settlement: The Gross
Settlement Amount and Defendant’s portion of the payroll taxes shall be paid by
Defendant in one lump sum payment within thirty (30) calendar days after the
Effective Date. (Settlement ¶ 4.3.)
·       
Disbursement: Promptly after payment of the Gross
Settlement Amount, but no later than 14 calendar days of receipt of the
payment, the Administrator will mail checks for: (1) the awarded Class Counsel
Award to Plaintiff’s Counsel; (2) the awarded Administrator Costs to the Administrator;
(3) the Service Award to Plaintiff; and (4) the Individual Settlement Awards to
the Participating Class Members. (Settlement ¶ 4.4.) The Individual Class
Payments shall not be preceded by any of the other payments. (Ibid.)
·       
Uncashed
Settlement Checks: Individual Settlement Award payments and Individual
PAGA Payments shall expire after 180 days. The total amount of any uncashed
settlement checks will be transmitted by the Administrator to the California
Controller’s Office Unclaimed Property Fund, with an identification of the
Participating Class Member to whom the funds belong, in accordance with
California Code of Civil Procedure section 384. (Settlement ¶¶ 4.4.1, 4.4.3.)
·       
The Administrator will be ILYM Group, Inc. (Settlement
¶ 1.2.)
·       
Participating class members and the named
Plaintiff will release certain claims against Defendant. (See further
discussion below)
 
ANALYSIS OF SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
 
1. Does a presumption of fairness exist? 
1. Was the settlement reached
through arm’s-length bargaining? On October 24, 2023, the parties mediated
before Steve Serratore, which ultimately resulted in settlement. (Mara Decl. ¶
6.)  
 
2. Were investigation and
discovery sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act intelligently? The
parties engaged in informal discovery where Defendant produced policy documents
covering employees’ employment with Defendant, as well as wage and hour
records. Defendant produced its wage and hour policies, including its meal and
rest period policies. Defendant produced wage and hour records for a 20 percent
random sampling of the Class Members, which Plaintiff’s counsel had an expert
analyze. The sample was selected by sorting employees based upon their date of
hire and selecting every fifth name. Defendant produced Plaintiff’s personnel
file and wage and hour records. Defendant produced data surrounding the number
of current and former employees, as well as the number of workweeks worked by
Class Members during the relevant time period to establish a potential exposure
model. (See generally Mara Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
3. Is counsel experienced in
similar litigation? Yes. Class Counsel is experienced in class action
litigation, including wage and hour class actions. (Mara Decl. ¶¶ 2-13; Solouki
Decl. ¶¶ 3-10.)
 
4. What percentage of the class
has objected? This cannot be determined until the
fairness hearing. See Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2014) ¶ 14:139.18, (“Should the court receive
objections to the proposed settlement, it will consider and either sustain or
overrule them at the
fairness hearing.”).
            
            CONCLUSION:  The settlement is entitled to a presumption
of fairness.
 
2. Is the settlement fair, adequate, and reasonable?
1. Strength of Plaintiff’s case.
“The most important factor is the strength of the case for plaintiff on the merits, balanced against the amount offered in
settlement.”  (Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116,
130.) Here, Defendant vigorously disputes all of Plaintiff’s claims. (See
generally Mara Decl. ¶¶ 7-25.)
 
Here, Class Counsel has provided
information, summarized below, regarding the estimated values of the class
claims alleged:
 



Violation


Maximum Exposure




Rest Periods


$1,494,851.00




Meal Periods


$358,761.00




Business Reimbursements


$487,760.00




Wage Statement Violations


$510,100.00




Waiting Time Penalties


$1,854,772.00




Total


$4,196,144.00



 
(Mara Decl. ¶ 31.) 
 
            Once
accounting for the risks of litigation, the realistic expected damages would be
significantly lower. 
 
2. Risk, expense, complexity and
likely duration of further litigation. Given the nature of the class
claims, the case is likely to be expensive and lengthy to try. Procedural
hurdles (e.g., motion practice and appeals) are also likely to prolong the
litigation as well as any recovery by the class members.
 
3. Risk of maintaining class
action status through trial. Even if a class is certified, there is always
a risk of decertification. (See Weinstat v. Dentsply Intern., Inc. (2010) 180 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1226 [“Our
Supreme Court has recognized that trial courts
should retain some flexibility in conducting class
actions, which means, under suitable circumstances,
entertaining successive motions on certification if the court subsequently
discovers that the propriety of a class action is not appropriate.”].)
 
4. Amount offered in settlement.
Plaintiff’s counsel estimated Defendant’s potential maximum damages at $4,196,144.00.
Plaintiff’s counsel obtained a $520,000.00 non-reversionary settlement. This is
approximately 12.4% of Plaintiff’s potential maximum recovery which, given the
uncertain outcomes, is within the ballpark of reasonableness. 
 
The settlement amount, after reduced by the requested
deductions, leaves approximately $296,666.67 to be divided among approximately 414
class members. Assuming full participation, the resulting payments will average
approximately $716.59 per class member. 
 
5. Extent of discovery completed
and stage of the proceedings. As indicated above, at the time of the
settlement, Class Counsel had conducted sufficient discovery.
 
6.         Experience
and views of counsel. The settlement was negotiated and endorsed by Class
Counsel who, as indicated above, is experienced in class action litigation,
including wage and hour class actions. 
 
7. Presence of a governmental
participant. This factor is not applicable here.
 
8. Reaction of the class members
to the proposed settlement. The class members’ reactions will not be known
until they receive notice and are afforded an opportunity to object, opt-out
and/or submit claim forms. This factor becomes relevant during the fairness
hearing.
 
            CONCLUSION:  The settlement can be preliminarily deemed
“fair, adequate, and reasonable.” 
 
3. Scope of the release 
Release by All Participating
Class Members. All Participating Class Members, including Plaintiff, shall
be deemed to have released their respective Released Claims against the
Released Parties on the date on which the payment of
the Gross Settlement Amount and required payroll taxes is made by Defendant.
Plaintiff and Class Members who do not Request Exclusion will be deemed to have
fully, finally, and forever released, settled, compromised, relinquished, and
discharged with respect to all of the Released Parties for any and all Released
Claims that accrued during the Released Claims Period. (Settlement ¶ 5.)
·       
“Released Claims” means all claims that were
alleged, or reasonably could have been alleged, based on the facts stated in
the operative complaint, or could have been discovered during this litigation,
including all claims under California Labor Code sections 201-204, 218, 218.5,
222, 223, 224, 226, 226.3, 226.7, 233(c), 233(e), 234, 246, 246(a)(1), 246(c),
246.5, 510, 512, 558, 1174, 1175, 1194, 1194.2, 1197, 1198, and 2802.
Participating Class Members shall also waive claims under California Business
and Professions Code section 17200 and California’s
Private Attorneys General Act based on violations of the California Labor
Code sections in the preceding sentence including injunctive relief, liquidated
damages, interest, fees, and costs. (Settlement ¶ 5.2.)
·       
“Released Parties” means Defendant and all of
its present and former parent companies, subsidiaries, divisions, concepts,
related or affiliated companies, shareholders, officers, directors, employees,
agents, attorneys, insurers, reinsurers, successors and assigns, and any
individual or entity which could be liable for any of the Released Class
Claims, and Defendant’s counsel of record in the Action. (Settlement ¶ 1.31.) 
·       
Plaintiff additionally provides general release
of his claims against Defendant. (Settlement ¶ 5.1.) Plaintiff provides a Civil
Code, section 1542 waiver. (Settlement ¶ 5.1.1.)
 
4. May conditional class certification be granted?
1. Standards
A detailed analysis of the elements required for class
certification is not required, but it is advisable to review each element when
a class is being conditionally certified (Amchem
Products, Inc. v. Winsor (1997) 521 U.S. 620, 622-627.)  The trial court can appropriately utilize a
different standard to determine the propriety of a settlement class as opposed
to a litigation class certification. Specifically, a lesser standard of
scrutiny is used for settlement cases. (Dunk
v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
2794, 1807 fn. 19.)  Finally, the
Court is under no “ironclad requirement” to conduct an evidentiary hearing to
consider whether the prerequisites for class certification have been satisfied.
(Wershba v. Apple Computer, Inc. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 224, 240,
disapproved on other grounds by Hernandez v. Restoration Hardware, Inc. (2018)
4 Cal.5th 260.)
 
2. Analysis
a. Numerosity. The parties state and estimate that
there are 414 class members, but the Court does not discern any direct evidence
of this number or estimate in a declaration. 
The parties should either point out such evidence to the Court at the
hearing or provide such evidence to the Court. 
 
b. Ascertainability. The proposed class is defined
above. The class definition is “precise, objective and presently
ascertainable.”  (Sevidal v. Target Corp. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 905, 919.) The class
members are identifiable from Defendant’s records. (Mara Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
c. Community of interest. “The community of interest
requirement involves three factors: ‘(1) predominant common questions of law or
fact; (2) class representatives with claims or defenses typical of the class;
and (3) class representatives who can adequately represent the class.’”  (Linder
v. Thrifty Oil Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 429, 435.) ]
 
As to commonality, Plaintiff contends that the main issues
involve the legality of Defendant’s employment policies regarding Plaintiff’s
claims for failure to pay all wages, failure to provide meal periods, failure
to authorize and permit rest periods. failure to adopt a compliant sick pay and
paid time off policy, intentional failure to comply with itemized employee wage
statement provisions, failure to pay all wages due at termination, failure to
reimburse expenses, failure to maintain required records, and unfair
competition. Plaintiff contends that his claims are typical of the class
because he was employed during the Class Period. (Galeas Decl. ¶ 13.)
 
As to adequacy, Plaintiff represents that he is aware of the
duties and risks of serving as class representative and has participated in the
litigation. (Galeas Decl. ¶¶ 6-10, 12.) 
 
d. Adequacy of class counsel. As indicated above,
Class Counsel has shown experience in class action litigation, including wage
and hour class actions.
 
e. Superiority. Given the relatively small size of
the individual claims, a class action appears to be superior to separate
actions by the class members.
 
            CONCLUSION:  The class may be conditionally certified
since the prerequisites of class certification have been satisfied. 
 
5. Is the notice proper?
1. Content of class notice. 
The proposed notice is attached to the Settlement as Exhibit
A. Its content appears to be acceptable. It includes information such as: a
summary of the litigation; the nature of the settlement; the terms of the
settlement agreement; the proposed deductions from the gross settlement amount
(attorney fees and costs, enhancement awards, and administration costs); the
procedures and deadlines for participating in, opting out of, or objecting to,
the settlement; the consequences of participating in, opting out of, or
objecting to, the settlement; and the date, time, and place of the final
approval hearing.
 
Notice will be given in English and Spanish.

 
2. Method of class notice. 
Within 14 calendar days of entry of the Preliminary Approval
Order, Defendant shall provide the Administrator with the Class Data for
purposes of mailing the Settlement Notices to Class Members. (Settlement ¶ 4.2.) The Administrator shall not be
permitted to share any Class Information included in the Class Lists with
Plaintiff or Class Counsel absent express approval by Defendant or Defense
Counsel. (Ibid.) Within 3
business days after receipt of the Class Data, the Administrator shall mail out
the Class Notice to the Class Members identified in the Class Data. (Settlement
¶ 7.4.2.) Before sending the notices, the Administrator shall perform a search
based on the National Change of Address Database maintained by the United
States Postal Service to update and correct any known or identifiable address
changes. (Ibid.)
 
Any Settlement
Notice returned to the Administrator as non-deliverable on or before the
Response Deadline shall be re-mailed to the forwarding address affixed thereto
within 3 business days of receipt of the returned Settlement Notice by the Administrator.
If no forwarding address is provided, the Administrator shall conduct a Class
Member Address Search, including searching the National Change of Address
database, skip traces, and direct contact by the Administrator with Class
Members. The Administrator shall then re-mail the notice to the new Class
Member addresses obtained. The Administrator has no obligation to make further
attempts to send a Class Notice to Class Members whose Class Notice is returned
a second time. (Settlement ¶ 7.4.3.)
 
Class Members who
are sent a re-mailed Settlement Notice shall have their Response Deadline
extended by 14 calendar days from the date the Administrator re-mails the
Settlement Notice. (Settlement ¶ 7.4.4.)
 
3. Cost of class notice. 
 
As indicated above, settlement
administration costs are estimated not to exceed $10,000. Prior to the time of the final
fairness hearing, the administrator must submit a declaration attesting to the
total costs incurred and anticipated to be incurred to finalize the settlement
for approval by the Court.
 
6. Attorney fees and costs
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.769(b) states: “Any
agreement, express or implied, that has been entered into with respect to the
payment of attorney fees or the submission of an application for the approval
of attorney fees must be set forth in full in any application for approval of
the dismissal or settlement of an action that has been certified as a class
action.”
 
            Ultimately,
the award of attorney fees is made by the court at the fairness hearing, using
the lodestar method with a multiplier, if appropriate. (PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095-1096; Ramos v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 615, 625-626; Ketchum
III v. Moses (2000) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132-1136.)  Despite any agreement by the parties to the
contrary, “the court ha[s] an independent right and responsibility to review
the attorney fee provision of the settlement agreement and award only so much
as it determined reasonable.” (Garabedian
v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Company (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 123, 128.)

 
            The question of whether Class
Counsel is entitled to $173,333.33 (33 1/3% of the Gross Settlement
Amount) in attorney fees will be addressed at the fairness hearing when
class counsel brings a noticed motion for attorney fees. Class counsel must
provide the court with billing information so that it can properly apply the
lodestar method and must indicate what multiplier (if applicable) is being
sought as to each counsel.   
 
            Class
Counsel should also be prepared to justify the costs sought (capped at $30,000) by detailing how they were
incurred.
 
7.
Incentive Award
 
The Settlement Agreement provides for an enhancement award
of up to $10,000 to the named Plaintiff. In connection with the final
fairness hearing, named Plaintiffs each must submit a declaration attesting to
why he or she should be entitled to an enhancement award in the proposed amount.
The named Plaintiff must explain why he or she “should be compensated for the
expense or risk she has incurred in conferring a benefit on other members of
the class.”  (Clark v. American Residential
Services LLC (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 785, 806.) Trial courts should
not sanction enhancement awards of thousands of dollars with “nothing more than
pro forma claims as to ‘countless’ hours expended, ‘potential stigma’ and ‘potential risk.’
Significantly more specificity, in the form of quantification of time and
effort expended on the litigation, and in the form of reasoned explanation of
financial or other risks incurred by the named plaintiff, is required in order
for the trial court to conclude that an enhancement was ‘necessary to induce
[the named plaintiff] to participate in the suit . . . .’” (Id. at 806-807, italics and ellipsis in
original.) 
 
The Court will decide the issue of the enhancement awards at
the time of final approval.
 
Here, Plaintiff has provided only limited, generic
statements about the time expended and the risks of class action litigation in
general. The Court requests that Plaintiff provide further explanation of why
the award is justified.