 Case Number:  24AHCV00311    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YAPING DANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DAWN
   WELLER, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  24AHCV00311
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   17, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On February
 13, 2024, plaintiffs Yaping Dang, Austin Yuen, Sheng-Ching Tsao Chen,
and Xin Zheng (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against WFG
National Title Insurance Company (“WFG”), Dawn Weller (“Weller”), and Jeff
Leung (“Leung”) (collectively, “Defendants”). The Complaint contains causes of
action for: (1) bad faith, (2) unfair claim practice, (3) breach of contract,
(4) breach of the contractual duty to pay a covered insurance claim, (5) breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) intentional
misrepresentation, (7) negligent misrepresentation, and (8) unfair business
practice. 
Plaintiffs allege that they are
insureds of WFG under a title policy and that Defendants failed to act on a claim
regarding a covered loss under the title policy.  (Compl. ¶¶ 14, 23, 32, 36.)  
On April 25,
 2024, Defendant filed this petition to compel arbitration and stay
action. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on May 8,
 2024. 
Defendants filed a reply brief on September
 10, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether
parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236; see also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Whether
a Valid Arbitration Agreement Exists
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586.) “For purposes of a petition to compel arbitration, it is
not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” (Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218. “A plain
reading of the statute indicates that as a preliminary matter the court is only
required to make a finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity.” (Id. at p. 219.) “Once the petitioners
had alleged that the agreement exists, the burden shifted to respondents to
prove the falsity of the purported agreement.” (Ibid.)
In the context of title insurance
policies, “[an] insured's approval and acceptance of the conditions set forth
in the preliminary report create a binding contract based on the terms set
forth in the report and any materials that are incorporated therein by
reference. [Citation.] Therefore, whether [the insured is] bound by an
arbitration clause depends directly on whether that term was set forth in the
preliminary report or incorporated therein by reference.” (Kleveland v.
Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 761, 764.) 
Defendants claim that the ALTA Loan
Policy of Title Insurance issued July 20, 2023 (“Policy”), contains a binding
arbitration clause and submits the Declaration of Dawn Weller, in which Weller
states that the Policy contained a arbitration clause in Paragraph 13 of the
Policy’s Conditions. The arbitration clause states: 
Either [WFG] or the Insured may demand
that the claim or controversy shall be submitted to arbitration pursuant to the
Title Insurance Arbitration Rules of the American Land Title Association
(“Rules”). Except as provided in the Rules, there shall be no joinder or
consolidation with claims or controversies of other persons. Arbitrable matters
may include, but are not limited to, any controversy or claim between [WFG] and
the Insured arising out of or relating to this policy, any service in
connection with its issuance or the breach of a policy provision, or to any
other controversy or claim arising out of the transaction giving rise to this
policy. All arbitrable matters when the Amount of Insurance is $2,000,000 or
less shall be arbitrated at the option of either [WFG] or the Insured. All
arbitrable matters when the Amount of Insurance is in excess of $2,000,000
shall be arbitrated only when agreed to by both [WFG] and the Insured.
Arbitration pursuant to this policy and under the Rules shall be binding upon
the parties. Judgment upon the award rendered by the Arbitrator(s) may be
entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
 
(Weller Decl, ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition
brief that Defendants fail to meet their moving burden to allege the existence
of the arbitration agreement because the preliminary title report was not
attached. However, Defendants attached the preliminary title report in their
reply and Plaintiffs do not appear to have been prejudiced by Defendant’s
failure to do so, as Plaintiffs equally have access to the report and made
arguments regarding the arbitration clause’s unconscionability in their
opposition brief. The preliminary title report states, in relevant part:
The printed Exceptions and Exclusions
from the coverage and Limitation on Covered Risks of said policy or policies
are set forth in Exhibit One attached. The policy to be issued may contain an
arbitration clause. When the Amount of Insurance is less than that set forth in
the arbitration clause, all arbitrable matters shall be arbitrated at the
option of either the Company or the Insured as the exclusive remedy of the parties.
. .  Copies of the policy forms should be
read. They are available from the office which issued this report.” 
 
(Weller Supp. Decl., Ex. 2.) 
Defendants sufficiently show that an
arbitration agreement exists because the preliminary report refers to the
document containing the arbitration clause: the Policy. (Wolschlager v.
Fidelity National Title Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 784, 790-791.) The
report also informs the insured how to obtain a copy of the Policy and advises
that it should be read and that it may contain an arbitration clause. (Id.,
p. 791.) In addition, the arbitration clause covers the causes of action
asserted in this action because arbitrable matters include “any controversy or
claim between [WFG] and the Insured arising out of or relating to this [Policy],
any service in connection with its issuance or the breach of a policy
provision, or to any other controversy or claim arising out of the transaction
giving rise to this [P]olicy.” 
B.  
Whether
There Are Any Valid Objections to the Arbitration Agreement’s Enforceability 
Plaintiffs argue that the arbitration
clause is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. Unconscionability has two
components: procedural unconscionability and substantive unconscionability,
both of which must be present in some degree to render a contract
unenforceable, “[b]ut they need not be present in the same degree.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
Instead, California courts use a “sliding scale” approach. (Id.) “In
other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Id.)
Here, the Policy and arbitration clause
evidence a slight degree of procedural unconscionability because they are
standardized forms and presented on a “take it or leave it” basis. (Ajamian
v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 [adhesion contract
based on a standardized form, drafted and imposed by a party of superior
bargaining strength displayed low level of procedural unconscionability].) However,
there is no showing of a high degree of substantive unconscionability.
Plaintiffs claim that the arbitration clause lacks mutuality because it only
allows WFG to “unilaterally” compel arbitration for disputes involving less
than $2,000,000. (Opp., p. 8.) But this is not true. The arbitration clause
allows either party to demand arbitration if the amount in controversy is less
than $2,000,000. Therefore, the arbitration clause does not lack mutuality. 
 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s petition to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. 
Dated
this 17th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




          
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 