 Case Number:  23VECV03851    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03851 YULI
GOLDBERG-AZULAY vs RON AZULAY
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is
CONTINUED for Plaintiff's Counsel to file a Proof of Service notifying
Plaintiff of this motion and new hearing date, and to correct the Form MC-053
deficiencies.
Introduction 
Jonathan Vogel, Esq.
("Plaintiff's Counsel") seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for
Plaintiff Yuli Goldberg-Azulay. Plaintiff's Counsel seeks to be relieved for
various reasons.  The motion states that because
the attorney-client relationship is based off a limited-scope retainer
agreement. (Dec. Vogel 3.) The motion also states on October 30, 2023,
Plaintiff's Counsel advised Plaintiff to hire a family law appellate specialist
to obtain a more favorable award of child support, (Id. at 3.) that on October
17, 2023, Plaintiff was sent a Substitution of Counsel request but was ignored,
(Id. at 6.) and on October 30, 2023, Plaintiff was again advised to hire a
specialist. (Id. at 7.) The motion also states that on December 6, 2023,
Plaintiff's Counsel requested an acknowledgment, but Plaintiff was once again
nonresponsive. (Id. at 8.) 
No opposition has been filed for
this Motion. 
For a Motion to Withdraw,
California Rule of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and
motion to be directed to the client; (2) a declaration stating in general terms
the basis for the withdrawal, without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship; (3) service of the notice of motion and motion
and declaration on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel. 
Plaintiff's Counsel's Motion
fails to comply with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. For instance, the
Court finds that the proposed order (MC-053) is incomplete.  Form MC-053 should include information about
all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any party or ordered by the
Court. It also needs to include the party's last known address and phone
number. Here, the form is essentially blank. 
Also, there is no proof of
service of the Motion, Declaration, and Proposed Order on Plaintiff and the
other parties that have appeared in this case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d).) 
Accordingly, the motion is continued
to ____________________ for plaintiff's counsel to correct these defects, give
proper notice and file the proof of service with the court.  The court will not sign a blank order. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, PLAINTIFF'S
COUNSEL (Jonathan Vogel, Esq.) TO GIVE NOTICE.
 