 Case Number:  23VECV01067    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01067 NGOC FUHR, AN
INDIVIDUAL vs GENERAL MOTORS
[Tentative] Ruling: The demurrer
to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd COA (COA) in the First Amended FAC (FAC) is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.  The motion
to strike is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Ngoc Fuhr (“Plaintiff”)
brings this action against Defendant General Motors LLC (“GM” or “Defendant”)
seeking redress for GM’s misconduct and failure to comply with California law
in connection with a defective electric vehicle manufactured and sold by GM. 
Plaintiff leased a new 2021
Chevrolet Bolt (“Subject Vehicle”) on June 24, 2021. (FAC, ¶ 8.) The Subject
Vehicle was delivered with substantial defects and non-conformities to
warranty, including but not limited to serious battery defects. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
had conversations with the sales representatives at Culver City Chevrolet and
reviewed manufacturer publications and advertisements about the quality of the
Chevrolet Bolt. (FAC, ¶ 8.) 
At no time did GM or its
authorized agents publicly or privately disclose to Plaintiff any information
about the battery defect. (FAC, ¶¶ 11, 12.) The Chevrolet Bolt battery is
defective, has a reduced range, and can cause fire leading to serious bodily injury
or death. (FAC, ¶ 11.) 
Moreover, there is no current fix
available for the defective battery. (FAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff was misled by GM
and its authorized dealership about the problems with the battery prior to and
at the time of Plaintiff’s leasing the Subject Vehicle. (FAC, ¶¶ 26-28.) 
Plaintiff relied on the
statements from the sales representatives and marketing materials about the
qualities of the Chevrolet Bolt. (FAC, ¶¶ 8, 26-28.) 
As a result of Defendant’s
conduct, Plaintiff has been harmed insofar as he is stuck with a vehicle with
limited range, can catch fire, and by GM’s own admission, cannot be fixed.
(FAC, ¶ 26.) Had Plaintiff known about the defective nature of the battery at
the time of lease, he would never have leased the defective vehicle. (FAC, ¶
28.)
Plaintiff’s First Amended FAC
(“FAC”) alleges COA for (1) fraud concealment, (2) negligent misrepresentation,
(3) violations of Business & Professions Code §17200 and three COA for
violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly Act”). 
II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS FOR
THE DEMURRER 
Defendant General Motors (“GM”)
demurs to Plaintiff’s first three COAs: (1) fraud concealment and
misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, and (3) violations of
Business & Professions Code §17200 on the grounds that they fail to state
facts sufficient to establish fraud and are uncertain.  (Not. of Dem. p.2.)
Plaintiff argues that he has
sufficiently pled the allegations and Defendant’s demurrer should be overruled.
(Dem. Opp. p.2.)
 
III. ANALYSIS 
Meet and Confer 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to¿overrule or
sustain a demurrer.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here, Defendant attempted to meet
and confer telephonically with Plaintiff to resolve the issues in this
demurrer, but Defendant was unsuccessful. (Yaraghchian Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant
does not provide details as to why it was unsuccessful or if they ever met.
(Id.) Therefore, this one attempt may not be sufficient for a meet and confer. 
However, even if it is found that
the meet and confer efforts were insufficient, an insufficient meet and confer
process is not grounds to¿overrule or sustain a demurrer.  Failure to meet and confer can be grounds for
sanctions for violation of statute.
Demurrer
As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.
App. 4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.
App. 4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the FAC’s
properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a
demurrer is concerned with is whether the FAC, as it stands, states a COA.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal. 3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal. App. 4th 118, 226.)
However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state
a good COA, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.”
(Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal. 2d 240, 245). 
Fraud Concealment and
Misrepresentation
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege facts sufficient to state a COA for fraud concealment and
misrepresentation. (Not. of Dem. p.2; Reply p.1.)
Plaintiff argues that the COA was
sufficiently pled with specificity because no heightened pleading standard
exists for concealment. (Dem. Opp. p.3.)
“[T]he elements of a COA for
fraud based on concealment are: ‘“(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.”’” (Jones v. Conoco Phillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 1187, 1198,
quoting Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830,
850.) 
A duty to disclose arises in only
four circumstances: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the Plaintiff, (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the Plaintiff, (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the Plaintiff; [or] (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Heliotis v. Schuman
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.)
“[M]ere conclusionary allegations
that the omissions were intentional and for the purpose of defrauding and
deceiving plaintiffs and bringing about the purchase . . . and that plaintiffs
relied on the omissions in making such purchase are insufficient [to show fraud
by concealment].” (Linear Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152
Cal. App. 4th 115, 132.)
Here, the FAC alleges that (1)
Defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact including the presence of the
defective high voltage battery pack in the Vehicle which was present at the
time of Plaintiff’s lease of the Vehicle (FAC, ¶¶ 11, 30); (2) Defendant had a
duty to disclose the fact to Plaintiff because GM possessed superior and
exclusive knowledge regarding the defect (FAC, ¶ 32,38); (3) Defendant
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
Plaintiff (FAC, ¶¶ 30, 32, 34, 38); (4) Plaintiff would not have leased the
Vehicle but for GM’s omissions and concealment of material facts regarding the
nature and quality of the Vehicle and existence of the battery defect. (FAC, ¶
34.); and (5) Plaintiff was damaged as a result of the concealment. (FAC. ¶¶
36-37.) 
Defendant states that this COA
fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff failed to allege (i) the identity of
the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed material facts or made untrue
representations about his Bolt, (ii) their authority to speak and act on behalf
of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in Plaintiff’s Bolt at the
time of lease, (iv) any interactions with GM before or during the lease of
Plaintiff’s Bolt, or (v) GM’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to lease
the specific Bolt at issue. (Dem. Mot. ¶10.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff
fails to acknowledge the heightened pleading standards for fraud claims under
California law, especially against a corporate defendant. (Tarmann v. State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158 [2 Cal.Rptr.2d 861].)
However, the court in Tarmann, also provided an exception to this specificity
requirement. (Id.) 
The exception states “the
requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate that
"the defendant must necessarily possess full information [concerning the
facts of the controversy" . . . or "when the facts lie more in the knowledge
of the opposite party[.]" (Id.) Unlike the defendant in Tarmann, who
“ha[d] no more reason to know” who made the verbal allegedly false
representation, here Defendant knows the people who authored GM’s promotional
advertisements and recalls. (Id.) Therefore, the level of specificity is
sufficient regarding the second element. 
Nevertheless, the alleged facts
are still not sufficient to state a COA for fraud concealment and
misrepresentation because the first and third elements are conclusory and fail
to state any facts as to how Defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the
fact. For instance, Plaintiff only presents that GM “intentionally and
knowingly concealed, suppressed and/or omitted material facts” because “GM
knew” about the battery defect. (FAC, ¶¶30-31.) However, Plaintiff fails to
show how Defendant “intentionally concealed, suppressed, and/or omitted the
material facts.” Thus, the facts are insufficient. 
Therefore, the Court sustains the
demurrer to the COA for fraud concealment and misrepresentation with leave to
amend. 
Negligent Misrepresentation 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege facts sufficient to state a COA for negligence
misrepresentation. The elements of a COA for negligent misrepresentation are
(1) that defendant represented to him that a fact was true, (2) that
defendant’s representation was false, (3) that defendant knew that the
representation was false when it was made or that said statement was made
without regard for its truth, (4) that defendant intended that plaintiff rely
on the representation, (5) that plaintiff reasonably relied on defendant’s
representation, (6) plaintiff was harmed, and (7) plaintiff’s reliance on
defendant’s representation was a substantial factor in causing him harm. (Civ.
Code § 1710(1); CACI No. 1900).
The FAC alleges that (1) “the
oral and written representations made by GM both through its written
advertisements and publications and its authorized salesperson that the 2021
Chevrolet Bolt EV could travel 259 miles on a single charge, that it could be charged
indoors at his home, that the Vehicle was safe, and that Defendant Manufacturer
would repair any defects during the express warranty were true.” (FAC, ¶¶  9,44.) Moreover, the FAC also alleges that
those representations were false because (2) “[t]he Vehicle’s battery was
defective, the Vehicle could not driver 250 miles on a single charge, the
Vehicle could not be charged indoors, it was not safe, and Manufacturer was
unable to repair the defective battery.” (FAC, ¶ 44.) 
The FAC also alleges that (3)
“[r]egardless of their actual belief, GM made the representations without any
reasonable grounds for believing them to be true.” (FAC, ¶ 44.) The FAC further
alleges (4) “Plaintiff was fraudulently induced.” (FAC, ¶ 49.) Additionally,
the FAC alleges that (5) “Plaintiff relied upon those representations and acted
in reliance thereon by leasing the Vehicle.”(FAC, ¶¶ 46-47.) Moreover,
Plaintiff was harmed because he (6) “suffered damages, including all actual,
consequential, and incidental damages according to proof at trial.” (FAC, ¶
48.) Lastly, that reliance was a substantial factor in causing him harm because
“direct and proximate result of GM’s negligent misrepresentations of material
fact, Defendant suffered damages.” (FAC, ¶ 48.)
These alleged facts are
insufficient to state a COA for negligent misrepresentation because the facts
for the third and fourth elements were conclusory. For instance, the fact for
the third element presents that GM made the representations “without any reasonable
grounds for believing them to be true” but does not provide facts to support
this allegation. (FAC, ¶ 44.)  Moreover,
Plaintiff does not provide specific facts as to how the Defendant intended
Plaintiff to rely on the representations. 
The opposition argues that
Plaintiff’s First Amended FAC alleges specific facts sufficient to demonstrate
negligent misrepresentation because “(a) GM represented to Plaintiff that fact
was true (FAC, ¶¶ 8, 39.); (b) GM’s representation was not true (FAC, ¶¶ 11-25,
39.); (c) although GM may have honestly believed that the representation was
true, it had no reasonable grounds to believe it was true when it was made
(FAC, ¶¶ 11-25, 39-40.); (d) GM intended that Plaintiff rely on the
representation (FAC, ¶¶ 11-25, 41.); (e) Plaintiff reasonably relied on the
representation (FAC, ¶¶ 11-25, 41.); and (f) resulting damage. (FAC, ¶¶ 27-28,
43.) (CACI 1903).
However, Plaintiff’s opposition
includes the same deficiencies for the third and fourth elements. 
The Court sustains the demurrer
to the COA for negligent misrepresentation with leave to amend. 
Violations of Business &
Professions Code § 17200
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege facts sufficient to state a COA for violations of Business
& Professions Code § 17200. 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
demur has no merit. 
The elements of a COA for
violations of Business & Professions Code § 17200 are: (1) a plaintiff
suffered an economic injury, i.e., a deprivation of money or property
sufficient to qualify as an injury in fact; and (2) said economic injury was
caused by the unfair business practice of the defendant.  Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51
Cal.4th 310, 322 (Kwikset).
As to his Unfair Competition Law
(“UCL”) claim, Plaintiff pleads, “Business and Professions Code 17200 as define
according to law: As used in this chapter, unfair competition shall mean and
include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair,
deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1
(Commencing with Section 17500) of part 3 of division 7 of the Business and Professions
Code.” (FAC, ¶ 51.) 
Here, the Court has already
determined it will sustain Defendant’s demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first COA for
concealment fraud and second COA for negligent misrepresentation. Without a
viable claim for fraud or for an alleged statutory violation, Plaintiff’s FAC
is without any proper ground for an unfair/unlawful competition claim. 
Therefore, the demurrer to
Plaintiff’s third COA for unfair competition under Business and Professions
Code section 17200, et seq. will be sustained, with leave to amend. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
SUSTAINED as to all three COAs  with
leave to amend.  
Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or
at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.)
Punitive damages are awardable
upon proof that the conduct of the defendant amounted to fraud, malice, or
oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “Fraud” is defined as intentional
misrepresentations, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention to injure the plaintiff. (Civ. Code, § 3294.)
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, arguing that punitive damages are not
recoverable because fraud cannot be established. Plaintiff argues that he
sufficiently alleged that Defendant engaged in fraudulent conduct and Plaintiff’s
pleadings sufficiently alleges that Defendant’s misconduct amounted to fraud,
malice, and oppression.
Here, since the Court sustained
the demurrer as to the first, second, and third COA, fraud cannot be
established with the facts as currently pleaded. 
As such,
punitive damages claims cannot stand without properly alleging fraud. 
Accordingly, the motion to strike
is GRANTED with leave to amend.