  Case Number:  24STCV00958    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
24, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Protection of the Educational Rights
of Kids, et al. v.
The Willows Community School
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV00958
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE
      


 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant The Willows Community
School
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs Protection of the
Educational Rights of Kids, et al.
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            The Willows Community School (The Willows or Defendant) is a
private school in Culver City.  Tuition costs
between $32,525 and $45,000 per year. Dee and Paul Barshon (the Barshons) son
and Shira Aflalo (Aflalo) and Yotam Shochat’s (Schochat) daughter (collectively,
Individual Plaintiffs) were students at The Willows.  
 
In 2019, the Covid-19 pandemic began.  Like other schools, The Willows transitioned
from in-person to remote instruction.  For
the 2021-2022 school year, The Willows returned to in-person instruction.  Individual Plaintiffs signed enrollment
contracts prior to the start of the 2021-2022 school year.  During the fall of 2021, The Willows issued a
policy requiring students (ages 5 to 11) to take the Covid-19 vaccine series to
attend school in person.  Students were
required to have taken or at least begun the vaccine series by February 1,
2022.  Further, the policy required
parents to release The Willows from liability for any claims associated with
exposure to Covid-19, and to agree to testing, screening, and quarantine
requirements, as well as other safety precautions.  All exemption requests were denied.  The 2021-2022 enrollment contract did not
contain a Covid vaccine policy.
 
             As of February 1, 2022, the Barshons’ son was
effectively kicked out of The Willows because he had not received or started
the Coivd vaccine series, and The Willows refused to offer the independent
study program through Zoom.  (The Willows
had been providing children who did not receive the Covid shot with the
program.)
 
            During the
2021 winter break, Aflalo and Shochat’s daughter became sick with Covid-19 and
was prohibited from taking the Covid shot. 
Despite furnishing a doctor’s note stating she was medically unable to
take the Covid shot for ninety days, The Willows refused to allow Aflalo and
Shochat’s daughter to attend in person after April 22, 2022.  Aflalo and Shochat’s daughter finished the
school year remotely and were effectively excluded from of The Willows due to
the Covid policy.  Individual Plaintiffs’
children are no longer students at The Willows.
 
On January 12, 2024, Individual Plaintiffs and nonprofit corporation
Protection of the Educational Rights of Kids (PERK) (collectively, Plaintiffs)
commenced this action against The Willows. 
On May 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint
(SAC) for (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Declaratory Relief re Enrollment
Contract.  The first cause of action is
asserted by Individual Plaintiffs only. 
The enrollment contract is attached as an exhibit to the SAC.
 
On June 25, 2024, The Willows filed a Demurrer to the SAC.
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  The Willows replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
The Willows demurs to each cause of action.  The parties begin by addressing the declaratory
relief claim.  The court follows suit.
 
A.   
Declaratory Relief (2nd
Cause of Action)
 
Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim is based on the
contention that an actual controversy exists between the parties regarding The
Willows’ authority to modify the enrollment contract at any point in the future
to include a Covid-19 vaccine mandate or any requirement that students get a
vaccination that state law does not require. 
(SAC, ¶¶ 36, 38, 40, 41.)  
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to
demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject
of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and
brackets omitted.)¿ 
 
A cause of action for declaratory relief should not be used
as a duplicate cause of action for the determination of identical issues raised
in another cause of action.  (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly
(1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)¿¿Further, “there is no basis for
declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.”¿ (Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks omitted.) Declaratory relief is “to be
used in the interests of preventive justice, to declare rights rather than
execute them.” (Cordoba Corp. v. City of Industry (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
145, 157 quoting Babb v. Superior Court (1971) 3 Cal.3d 841, 848.)
 
The Willows argue Plaintiffs lack standing to prosecute this
claim.  The court agrees. To have
standing, “a party must be beneficially interested in the controversy; that is,
he or she must have ‘some special interest to be served or some particular
right to be preserved or protected over and above the interest held in common
with the public at large.’ [Citations Omitted.] Moreover, the party must be
able to demonstrate that he or she has some such beneficial interest that is
concrete and actual, and not conjectural or hypothetical.” (Teal v. Superior
Court (2014) 60 Cal.4th 595, 599, quoting Holmes v. California Nat.
Guard (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 297, 314-315.)  Associational standing exists when: (a) [the
association's] members would otherwise have standing to sue in their own right;
(b) the interests [the association] seeks to protect are germane to the
organization's purpose; and (c) neither the claim asserted nor the relief
requested requires the participation of individual members in the lawsuit. (Amalgamated
Transit Union, Local 1756, AFL-CIO v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 993,
1004.)
 
As alleged, Plaintiffs do not have a beneficial interest in
this controversy.  Individual Plaintiffs’
children are no longer students at the Willows. (See SAC, ¶ 45.)  Further, there are no allegations that the
members of PERK are current families at The Willows.  A judicial declaration in Plaintiffs’ favor
would not benefit them.
 
Even if Plaintiffs had standing, the second cause of action is
unsupported by facts sufficient to state a claim for declaratory relief.  The allegations concern a past
wrong—specifically, The Willows’ imposition of a mandatory Covid-19 vaccination
policy which deprived the Individual Plaintiffs’ children of an in-person
education after February 1, 2022, and April 22, 2022.  There are no allegations that the Individual Plaintiffs
plan to re-enroll in The Willows.  Similarly,
there are no allegations identifying a restrictive policy akin to the Covid-19
vaccination policy that The Willows will or is currently implementing.  And, as discussed above, there are no
allegations the members of PERK are current families at The Willows. Without
such allegations, there is no actual controversy or ongoing dispute, only a
hypothetical one.  Plaintiffs’ opposition only proves these points.  (See Opp. p. 13:9-18 citing Doe v. Albany
Unified Sch. Dist. (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 668, 685 (holding the father of a
child who was a current student at the time the lawsuit had a beneficial
interest in the enforcement of the law by a public school); Collins v.
Thurmond (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 879, 917 (noting an organization had
standing to sue a public school district for racial discrimination because
some of its members were parents of the school district or have been
subject to or may in the future be subjected to discriminatory disciplinary
action).) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.
 
B.    
Breach of Contract (1st
Cause of Action)
 
Individual Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claim is based on
the following allegations.   In February
2021, the Individual Plaintiffs entered into a contract with The Willows for
the 2021-2022 school year (the “Enrollment Contract”). Per the terms of that
contract, the Individual Plaintiffs promised to pay in excess of $30,000. In
exchange, The Willows promised to provide the Individual Plaintiffs’ children
with an education that was equivalent to the education it provided to all other
students whose families signed the Enrollment Contract. The contract did not
include a requirement that the Individual Plaintiffs’ children take the
Covid-19 shot to receive that education. 
(SAC, ¶ 27.)  The Individual
Plaintiffs paid the required fee, and they performed all other obligations they
had under the terms of the Enrollment Contract. (SAC, ¶ 28.)  The Willows breached the Enrollment Contract
by unilaterally attempting to modify the agreement to require that the
Individual Plaintiffs’ children (who were intended third-party beneficiaries of
the Enrollment Contract) take the Covid-19 shot to receive the education they
were contractually entitled to and by providing the Individual Plaintiffs’
children with an inferior education during the 2021-2022 school year.  (SAC, ¶ 29.)
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a party
must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
The Willows argues the breach of contract claim fails
because Individual Plaintiffs do not identify any provision or term of the
enrollment contract that was breached by the issuance of the Covid-19
vaccination policy.  In support, The
Willows points out that the enrollment contract empowered it to modify its
infectious disease policies and protocols at any time.  As relevant here, the enrollment contract
states: ““By entering this Agreement, I, on behalf of myself and Student, agree
to accept and abide by the School’s Infectious disease policies and protocols,
including those related to COVID-19, each of which may be modified from time to
time.”  (SAC, Ex. A.)  The force majeure clause further states:  “I understand that School shall be entitled,
in its sole discretion, to immediately and without notice: (2) change the
facilities in which School’s education program, including classes, programs,
activities, and events (“Program”) are held; (3) change the manner and format
of the Program, including, but not limited to changing to an online electronic
format, independent or parent-guided study, or any other format or manner; or
(4) postpone or cease all or part of its operations and its duties,
obligations, and performance under this agreement.” (Id.) The Individual
Plaintiffs also agreed that “Parents, as well as students, are required and
agree to abide by and support School rules and regulations, as amended by the
School, in its sole discretion, periodically.” (Id.) Finally, the
Individual Plaintiffs agreed that “To the full extent permitted by law, I
voluntarily release and covenant not to sue the School, including its Released
Parties, from any and all claims and liabilities that arise out of, or relate
to this Enrollment Agreement, my child’s enrollment in or dismissal from the
School . . .” (Id.)
 
Individual Plaintiffs argue the enrollment contract is
ambiguous because the mandatory Covid policy does not fall within the
reasonable expectations of the contracting parties when they signed the
agreement.  “[W]here an ambiguous
contract is the basis of an action, it is proper, if not essential, for a
plaintiff to allege its own construction of the agreement.”   (Aragon-Haas v. Family Security Ins. Servs.,
Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.)  Indeed, the mandatory Covid policy does not
appear in the enrollment contract.  (See
SAC, Ex. A.)  In essence, whether the
parties contemplated the possibility of a vaccine requirement when signing the
agreement is a factual dispute improper for resolution at the demurrer
stage.  Further, contrary to The Willows’
position, Individual Plaintiffs do allege a breach.  (See SAC, ¶ 29.)  Individual Plaintiffs also allege that the
mandatory Covid policy exceeded The Willows’ authority because the Legislature
or the California Department of Public Health are entrusted with setting
vaccination requirements for students. 
(See SAC, ¶ 12.)  The Willows also
improperly refused to provide Covid exemptions. 
(See SAC, ¶ 13.)   
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the First Cause of Action is
OVERRULED. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION  
 
The Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED.  The Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is DENIED.   
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve their Answer to the Second
Amended Complaint within 10 days of the date of this order.
 
 
Dated:   September 24,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 