 Case Number:  22STCV31707    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV31707




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants VIP Unlimited and Edward Joseph
  Rachal’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants
VIP Unlimited and Edward Joseph Rachal’s (Defendants) counsel of record, Matt D. Zumstein (Counsel), moves to be
relieved as counsel for Defendants. Counsel contends relief is necessary
because Defendants have not communicated with counsel. VIP Unlimited has
retained separate legal representation, and Edward Joseph Rachal is currently
in custody. Counsel further states that his appearance as counsel of record in
this case was due to an inadvertent filing error. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Counsel
has filed form MC-051, but not forms MC-052 or MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)  
 
Additionally, Counsel has not shown proof of service of the
moving papers (MC-051, MC-052, MC-053) on all parties who have appeared in the
action, and Defendants. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) It appears
Counsel only served notice of this motion on VIP Unlimited’s new counsel; in
light of this, Counsel has not described why it cannot seek a Substitution of
Attorney for VIP Unlimited. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion without prejudice.
 
            Moving
party is to give notice and file a proof of service of such.
 