 Case Number:  22STCV21019    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21019




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Subpoena of Medical Records of
  Plaintiff Mahvash Abbas Rashidi




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Mahvash Abbas Rashidi




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff
Mahvash Abbas Rashidi (“Plaintiff now moves to quash Defendant City of Los
Angeles’ subpoena for production of Plaintiff’s medical records. Plaintiff
further seeks a protective order to prevent production of documents in the
subpoena. Plaintiff also seeks monetary, issue, evidentiary, and contempt
sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves a fall on a sidewalk. The complaint was
filed on June 28, 2022. Trial was initially set for December 26,
2023.    
 
Defendant Douglas Emmett 2007 LLC (“Defendant”) filed an
answer and cross complaint on September 20, 2023.   
 
On November 1, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte
application and continued trial and all related dates to July 22, 2024.  
 
On May 23, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte
application and continued trial to 30 days after Defendant’s summary judgment
hearing: August 6, 2024.  
 
On July 2, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment.  
 
On July 16, 2024, the Court granted in part Defendant’s ex
parte application to continue trial and reopen discovery. The Court vacated the
current trial date and set a Trial Setting Conference for August 2, 2024.  
 
            On August 2, 2024, the Court granted
in part Defendant’s motion to continue trial and partially reopen discovery.
Trial was set for October 28, 2024, and fact discovery was reopened for the
limited purpose of conducting Plaintiffs’ depositions. Plaintiffs were ordered
to appear for deposition within 10 days. (Min. Order, 8/2/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks to quash a
deposition subpoena to Manouchehr Rashti, M.D., Plaintiff’s medical provider, which
was served by Defendant City of Los Angeles, arguing it is overbroad and violates
Plaintiff’s privacy right. Plaintiff also argues the subpoena is improper
because it seeks discovery after the discovery cut-off has expired. The Court
notes that the subpoena has a production date of September 23, 2024. (Tavakoli
Decl., Exh. B.)
 
            The Court agrees that based on the
procedural history outlined above, the fact discovery cutoff has ended. Discovery
has only been reopened for the limited purpose of conducting Plaintiffs’
depositions. 
 
            Any party shall be entitled as a matter of
right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard before the 15th day, before
the date initially set for the trial of the action. (Code Civ. Proc.§ 2024.020
(a).)¿A trial court abuses its discretion in hearing a discovery motion past
the deadlines in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 when it does not
require the party to file a motion for leave to reopen discovery under section
2024.050. (Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products,
Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1588.)¿¿¿ 
 
               However, Plaintiff has not moved to reopen
discovery for the purpose of hearing this discovery motion. Since the discovery
motion cut-off has passed, the motion to quash is denied on procedural grounds
without prejudice to Plaintiff raising these arguments if discovery is later
reopened. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoena. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.