 Case Number:  23STCV13267    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV13267




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Felix LLC and Felix Chevrolet, L.P. 




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Yolanda Navarro 



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Felix LLC and Felix Chevrolet, L.P. (“Defendants”) move to
continue trial and all related dates. Plaintiff Yolanda Navarro (“Plaintiff”)
opposes, and Defendants reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on June 9,
2023, alleging a negligence action based on a fall. Trial was set for December
6, 2024. 
 
            On October 2, 2023, Defendants filed
an answer. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants request a trial continuance to May 2025. Defendants argue
they still need to conduct additional discovery such as expert discovery and
lay depositions and an independent medical examination. Defendants also assert
the parties are on a waitlist to mediate this case with Judge Craig Silver. No
supporting declaration was filed with this motion.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues her medical records have been
subpoenaed, her deposition was taken September 23, 2024, and her defense
medical examination will take place October 11, 2024. On October 23, 2024,
Plaintiff will take the deposition of Defendants’ employee Elder Rodriguez who
purportedly approached Plaintiff when she fell. The expert exchange is set to
take place October 17, 2024. Plaintiff confirms the parties are on a waitlist
for mediation. However, because Plaintiff anticipates all discovery to be
complete before trial, there is no good cause for a continuance. Plaintiff also
argues that she will be prejudiced if trial is continued, despite diligently
prosecuting this case, since the injury took place over three years ago. 
 
In reply, Defendants refute that Plaintiff diligently prosecuted this
case and argue she was granted four months of extensions to respond to
discovery. However, Defendants also argue that during Plaintiff’s deposition,
she testified about new treating medical providers and attorney retained
providers. Defendants argue they are still waiting for the deposition
transcript to identify and subpoena these providers. If trial is not continued,
the medical records may be received after the discovery cut-off. 
 
The
Court finds that a continuance is warranted to conduct additional discovery on
Plaintiff’s new providers, which Defendants anticipate they will receive
medical records in mid-November. However, the seven-month continuance appears
excessive, given the limited information provided. Therefore, considering there
has been no prior continuance in this case, the Court grants in part the motion
to continue trial and all related dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendants’ motion to continue trial and all
related dates.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to January 15, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to January 29, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.¿¿ 
 
No further
continuance absent sufficient good cause.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 