 Case Number:  22STCV28462    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:  Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off
calendar.  If a party submits on the
tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the
party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
in-person or remotely.

 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV28462




MOTIONS


Motion
  to be Relieved from Admissions 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Nancy Pogue 



 
 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Nancy Pogue (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants Mauricio Christopher Torres (“Torres”), Patrick
Bennet (“Bennet”), Target Corporation (“Target”), and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Negligence; (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5) Premises Liability. Defendant
Target now moves for an order relieving it of requests deemed admitted. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2033.300, states in pertinent part:
 
“(a) A party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a
request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all
parties.
 
(b) The court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only
if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be
substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the
merits.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.300.)
 
            “Because the law strongly favors
trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. Accordingly, the court’s
discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances where
it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or
where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially
prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining that party’s
action or defense on the merits.” (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420–1421.)
 
Specifically, “[a] mistake of fact is when a person understands the
facts to be other than they are; a mistake of law is when a person knows the
facts as they really are but has a mistaken belief as to the legal consequences
of those facts… [i]nadvertence is defined as lack of heedfulness or
attentiveness, inattention, fault from negligence…[and] ‘excusable neglect’
referred to in the section is that neglect which might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.” (Baratti v. Baratti
(1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 917, 921 [emphasis added].)
 
Here, Defendant Target Corporation (hereinafter “Target”) argues its
failure to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (Set One)
was due to defense counsel’s inadvertence, mistake, excusable neglect.
Specifically, Target contends Plaintiff failed to give notice of the continued
hearing date on her Motion to Deem Requests for Requests for Admissions
Admitted to defense counsel’s paralegal as previously requested. Target asserts
its counsel’s paralegal customarily calendars all deadlines to ensure
compliance with all litigation deadlines. (Brower Decl., ¶¶2-5.) As such,
Target contends its counsel assumed her paralegal had been copied on the notice
email and was aware of the new hearing date. (Farley Decl., ¶9.) Likewise,
Target asserts the failure to copy its counsel’s paralegal in the notice email
resulted in the continued hearing date, date by which Target intended to serve
responses, and an opposition were not calendared. Subsequently on August 2,
Target’s paralegal checked the docket and discovered the hearing was set for
August 5, 2024. (Brower Decl. ¶ 5.) Counsel was engaged in preparation of a
long cause trial that was set to begin on August 12, 2024. (Farley Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends Target cannot now claim nor
demonstrate mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect because defense counsel
acknowledged the noticed email and added her paralegal to the email chain.
Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts defense counsel did not raise the calendaring
issue at the August 5, 2024 hearing, did not file an opposition, and submitted
to the tentative ruling without requesting to be heard. 
 
Although Target’s handling attorney attests to being on vacation when
her paralegal discovered the continued hearing date and did not return until
after the hearing date, Plaintiff has provided the email chain from July 2,
2024, which shows that Target’s handling attorney acknowledged the email
regarding noticed of the continued hearing date and added her paralegal to the
chain. (Sarukhanyan Decl., ¶22, Ex. H.) In reply, Target’s asserts the email in
question did not specify the date, time, and location of the new hearing and
the attachment Plaintiff provided setting forth the new hearing date
information was not included. Target also contends even if the email could cure
Plaintiff’s failure to provide proper service, it was inadvertently overlooked
by her paralegal. (Brower Decl., ¶4.) 
 
Nonetheless, Target provides no explanation for why counsel could not
serve responses between August 2 and August 5, when at least one counsel was
present. Counsel needing to prepare for another trial is not a sufficient basis
for relief. (See, e.g., Huh v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1424.)
This is especially so when the responses to discovery served on February 29,
2024 were already late, with no explanation, and scheduled for hearing on July
5, 2024, which was continued at Defendant’s request.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendant Target
Corporation’s Motion to be Relieved from Admissions. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


