  Case Number:  21STCV35797    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35797




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Joseph Yellen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on September 20, 2024 by Petitioner Joseph Yellen (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Luke Yellen, age 17. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons: 
 
Petitioner has provided no medical records in attachment
8 and asserts that Claimant was not treated and only experienced immediate
discomfort and emotional damages following the rear-end accident. However,
given the nature of the incident, and the settlement given to the other
plaintiffs who were passengers, the Court requires a parent declaration
attesting to Claimant’s current condition and recovery. 
 
Petitioner requests $1,000 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be reasonable. 
 
In item 16, Petitioner must only include Claimant’s gross
settlement ($4,000) and attorney fees ($1,000). 
 
Petitioner must mark item 18b. 
 
Attachment 18b(5) must also include the amount to be
delivered to Petitioner. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), Petitioner must complete
item 1b and 1c. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 