

Hearing Date:             June
5, 2024    
Case Name:                Dean Delis v. Montecito
Financial Services, Inc. dba Robert Hall & Associates, et al.
Case No.:                    BC711642
Matter:                        Motion to Dismiss  
Moving Party:             Defendants Stephen
Hall (Hall), individually and as Trustee of SB Trust, the Borrower Defendants,
including ABS LA Group, LLC (ABS); ATB2 Group, LLC (ATB2); BVS Partners Realty,
LLC (BVS); GOBI, LLC (GOBI); MTB1 Group, LLC (MTB1); Nashville West, LLC
(Nashville);  Valley View Group, LLC
(Valley View) (collectively, Borrower Defendants); the Non-Borrower Defendants,
including Padaro Holdings, LLC (Padaro Holdings); Padaro Trails, LLC (Padaro
Trails); Blue Syrah, LLC (Blue Syra”); 1001 McDonald Way, LLC (McDonald); and
Keswick Consulting, LLC (Keswick) (collectively, Non-Borrower Defendants) 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Dean Delis, Margaret (Meg) Delis, Delakis LP and DMD Investments LLC


 

 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion to Dismiss is denied. 
 

 
            On November
5, 2021, Plaintiffs Dean Delis, Margert Delis (Meg), Drew Delis, Delakis LP,
and DMD Investments LLC (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) against twenty-four defendants, composed of three individuals
and twenty-one entities. The TAC asserts twenty-three claims for conspiracy to
defraud, fraud, securities fraud, civil theft, conversion, fraudulent
conveyance, aiding and abetting, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud,
breach of written contract, elder financial abuse, professional negligence, and
accounting. The allegations relate to numerous fraudulent real estate
investment schemes. Plaintiffs invested and loaned money to certain entity Defendants
to renovate and re-sell distressed properties (Properties). However, many of
the loans fell into default and the Properties were sold at a loss at foreclosure
sales. 
 
            Plaintiffs
alleged that over several years, Defendant Stephen Hall (Hall) made numerous misrepresentations
to them regarding the investments. For example, Hall allegedly failed to inform
Plaintiffs of any of the risks associated with any of the investments, failed
to disclose their numerous properties were over-collateralized, and failed to
follow through on numerous promises such as signing a personal guarantee to
return the money after the fraud was discovered.
 
            In October
2017, Plaintiffs ordered title reports on the Properties and discovered that
all were over-encumbered, in default, and were delinquent on property taxes. A
month later, Defendant Hall deflected the blame onto Defendant Brad Wiedmann
(Wiedmann), stating that Wiedmann misled him and his family as well. At the
time, Plaintiffs met with Defendants Robert Hall and Stephan Hall, who,
Plaintiffs allege, initially offered to sign written personal guarantees to pay
back Plaintiffs principal and interest, and now declined to sign the guarantees
because it would supposedly hinder their ability to obtain new loans to further
remodel the Properties. In February 2018, Plaintiffs discovered that their real
estate loans were being diverted into other business, such as ORock
Technologies, an internet company dealing with cloud-based services. 
 
The Borrower Defendants
 
Plaintiffs invested their funds
into numerous entities to remodel distressed Properties and re-sell them for
profit. These "Borrower Defendants" include ABS LA Group, LLC; ATB2
Group, LLC; BVS Partners Realty, LLC; GOBI, LLC; MTB l Group, LLC; Nashville
West, LLC; and 1 Valley View Group, LLC. Stephen Hall and/or Brad Wiedmann was
or is the managing agent for all the Borrower Defendants. Except for ORock
Technologies, the following are allegations about the transactions with the
entities in which Plaintiffs invested.
 
Bellevue Property:
$1.4 million
 
A total of $1.4 million was
invested into the Bellevue Property. This consisted of
$900,000 by Drew Delis through his corporation, Delakis LP,
and $500,000 from Dean and Meg Delis through the Entrust Group, Inc. FBO Dean
C. Delis. The funds were sent to Defendant MTB l Group to remodel the Bellevue
Property. Dean and Meg subsequently transferred their loan from the Bellevue
Property and onto the Alegria Property as described below, based on the advice
of Stephen Hall. The total amount transferred with interest was $743,000 as a
lien on the Alegria Property.
 
This Property was sold in July
2017. Drew Delis received his principal and interest on the Bellevue Property.
 
Madre Property:
$500,000
 
A total of $500,000 was invested to
purchase and remodel the Madre Property. Dean and Meg Delis provided the funds
to Defendant ABS LA Group, LLC. Their lien was then transferred to the Bellevue
Property; upon the sale of the Bellevue Property, Dean and Meg received
$120,000 and $380,000 remains outstanding. The Madre Property was sold in a
foreclosure sale.
 
Evergreen Property:
$732,500
 
A total of $732,500 was invested into the Evergreen Property, which was
supposed to be used to convert the Property into a sober living facility. Dean
and Meg Delis, through the
Delis Solo 401K
Trust FBO Dean C. Delis/Margaret A. Delis invested a total of $200,000, while
DMD Investments, LLC invested $532,500. DMD Investments is a limited liability
company formed by Drew Delis and whose members are Delakis LP and Miles Delis
(Drew's brother).
 
The funds were sent to Defendant
ATB2 Group, LLC. Stephen Hall and Wiedmann reportedly provided Dean and Meg
Delis a 30% ownership interest. In March 2018, the Property sold, and the
principal was paid back. However, Plaintiffs never received the 30% net profit
based on the ownership interest.
 
Alegria Property:
$260,000
 
A total of $260,000 was invested
into the Alegria Property for remodeling. Dean and Meg Delis, through the Delis
Solo 401K Trust FBO Dean C. Delis/Margaret A. Delis invested a total of
$100,000, while Dean and Meg Delis personally invested $160,000. The funds were
sent to Defendant BYS Realty Partners, LLC. Both the $260,000 and the
transferred $743,000 (from the Bellevue Property) were not repaid.
 
Plaintiffs received a Notice of
Default on the Property in November 2015; however, after informing Stephen Hall
and Brad Wiedmann, Plaintiffs were told the notice was likely a mistake
relating to identity theft. This Property was sold in foreclosure in February
2018.
 
ORock Technologies,
Inc.: $450,000
 
ORock is an internet and
cloud-based company that provides IT infrastructure and solutions for
enterprise customers. $450,000 was invested in this company, resulting in
Plaintiffs purchasing a total of 99,999 shares. Drew Delis personally invested
$100,000, Drew Delis through Delakis LP invested $250,000, and Dean and Meg
Delis, through the Delis Solo 40 l K Trust FBO Dean C. Delis invested $100,000.
 
Irvington Property:
$425,000
 
Drew Delis through Delakis LP
invested $425,000 to remodel the Irvington Property.
The funds were sent to Defendant GOBI, LLC.
 
Portola Property:
$500,000
 
Drew Delis through Delakis LP invested $500,000 to remodel the Portola
Property.
The funds were sent
to Defendant 1 Valley View Group, LLC.
 
Hunter Property: $170,000
 
Drew Delis through Delakis LP made two separate investments of $85,000
each to remodel two different units of the Hunter Property. The funds were sent
to Defendant Nashville West, LLC. This Property was also sold in a foreclosure
sale.
 
Ashe Property: $230,000
 
Drew Delis through Delakis LP made two separate investments of $115,000
each to remodel two different units of the Ashe Property. The funds were sent
to 3600 Ashe LLC. This entity filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2018 and Plaintiffs
dismissed it from the case.
 
Other Entity Defendants
 
The Complaint also names "Other Entity Defendants," which
include BD View Consulting, LLC; Blue Syrah, LLC; Coral Keswick, LLC; Cordova
Investments California, Inc.; Cordova Investments Nevada, Inc.; Keswick
Consulting, LLC; Legacy Village; 1001 McDonald Way, LLC; ORock Technologies,
Inc.; Pacific: Auto Recycling Center; Padaro Holdings, LLC; and 300 W.
Glenoaks, LLC. These Other Entity Defendants reportedly received funds which
were diverted away from the Borrower Defendants and comingled.
 
Procedural history and motions for summary
adjudication
 
On October 15, 2019, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting
Robert Hall for "Doe l" defendant.
 
In June 2020, Defendants Robert Hall, RHA, the Cordova entities, Coral
Keswick, and 300 W. Glenoaks demurred to the Second Amended Complaint on the
first (conspiracy), second (fraud), third (securities fraud), fourth
(securities fraud), fifth (civil theft), sixth (conversion), seventh (fraudulent
conveyance), eighth (breach of fiduciary duty), ninth (aiding and abetting
breach of fiduciary duty), tenth (constructive fraud), twenty-six (financial
elder abuse), twenty-seventh (professional negligence), and twenty-eighty
(accounting) causes of action. In December 2020, this Court overruled the
entire demurrer.
 
In December 2021, the same moving Defendants again demurred as to the
Third Amended Complaint on the sixth (conversion), seventh (aiding and abetting
fraudulent transfers), ninth (aiding and abetting fraudulent transfers),
eleventh (aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty), and twelfth
(constructive fraud) causes of action. They further argued that Plaintiff Drew
Delis lacked standing and sought to strike the alter ego allegations. On
February 22, 2022, this Court sustained the demurrer as to Drew's standing, but
overruled the rest of the demurrer and denied the motion to strike.
 
Twenty of the defendants filed motions for
summary judgment/adjudication, which were grouped into three clusters for three
hearings: (l) PARC, Cordova NV, Cordova CA, W. Glenoaks, Coral Keswick, LLC;
(2) Stephen E. Hall, 1 Valley View Group, LLC; ABS LA Group, LLC; ATB2 Group,
LLC; BVS Realty Partners, LLC; GOBI, LLC; MTB1 Group, LLC; Nashville West, LLC;
1001 McDonald Way, LLC; Blue Syrah, LLC; Keswick Consulting, LLC; Padaro
Holdings, LLC and Padaro Trails, LLC (collectively Stephen Hall Defendants);
and (3) Robert Hall; and Montecito Financial Services dba Robert Hall &
Associates (RHA). The Court
denied the motions for summary adjudication filed by the first, second, and third
groupings. (See rulings filed November 16 and 30, 2022, January 23, 2023.)
 
On April 6, 2023, the Court granted Stephen Hall Defendants’ motion to
file a First Amended Answer to the TAC. Shortly thereafter, the Court permitted
the parties to file additional motions for summary adjudication limited to the
new affirmative defenses raised in the Amended Answer. 
 
Another set of motions for summary adjudication were filed, which were
grouped into three clusters for three hearings: (l.) Robert Hall, and Montecito
Financial Services dba Robert Hall & Associates, PARC, Cordova NV, Cordova
CA, W. Glenoaks, Coral Keswick, LLC; and (2.) Stephen E. Hall, 1 Valley View
Group, LLC; ABS LA Group, LLC; ATB2 Group, LLC; BVS Realty Partners, LLC; GOBI,
LLC; MTB1 Group, LLC; Nashville West, LLC; 1001 McDonald Way, LLC; Blue Syrah,
LLC; Keswick Consulting, LLC; Padaro Holdings, LLC and Padaro Trails, LLC
(collectively Stephen Hall Defendants); and (3.) Plaintiffs Dean Delis,
individually and as trustee of the Delis Solo 401K Trust and the DC Delis,
Clinical Psychologist, Inc. Defined Benefit Pension Plan, Margaret (Meg) Delis,
Delakis, LP and DMD Investments, LLC.  
 
On July 27, 2023, the Court denied the motion for summary adjudication
filed by Stephen Hall Defendants. On August 8, 2023, the Court denied the
motion for summary adjudication filed by RHA Defendants. Thereafter, the court ruled on the motion
for summary adjudication filed by Plaintiffs. The Court granted in part and denied
in part the motion for summary adjudication of Fortieth through
Forty-Eighth Affirmative Defenses. 
 
Now, Stephen Hall Defendants move to dismiss this action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.310. The motion is joined
by all of the other Defendants except for Defendant Brad Wiedmann. Plaintiffs
oppose the motion. 
 
The motion to dismiss is denied. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs’
objection to Defendants’ declaration of Thomas Brown, relating to what
transpired in mediation, is sustained.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants move to dismiss this
action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310 on the grounds the
failure to bring this matter for trial prior to the five-year deadline was Plaintiffs’
fault based on their delay and “tactical” decisions.
 
            “An action shall be brought to trial
within five years after the action is commenced against the defendant.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 583.310.) “[I]f the action is not brought to trial” within five
years, dismissal is “mandatory.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.360.)
 
            Section 583.340 further outlines the
circumstances in which this five year rule may be tolled; specifically, when
“(a) The jurisdiction of the court to try the action was suspended, (b)
Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or enjoined, [or] (c) Bringing
the action to trial, for any other reason, was impossible, impracticable, or
futile.” (§ 583.340.) “Case law under section 583.310 has long held that for
the tolling provision of section 583.340, subdivision (c) to apply, there must
be a period of impossibility, impracticability or futility, over which
plaintiff had no control, because the statute is designed to prevent avoidable
delay.” (Tanguilig v. Neiman Marcus Grp., Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th
313, 328-29 [citing Gaines v. Fid. Nat'l Title Ins. Co. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1081, 1102].)
 
            To determine whether a party has
made a sufficient showing under section 583.340, subdivision (c) and can avoid
dismissal, “the court must consider all the circumstances in the individual
case, including the acts and conduct of the parties and the nature of the
proceedings themselves. The critical factor in applying these exceptions to a
given factual situation is whether the plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence
in prosecuting his or her case.” (Gaines v. Fidelity National Title Ins. Co.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1081, 1100 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)
The tolling provisions of section 583.340 “ ‘must be liberally construed
consistent with the policy favoring trial on the merits.’ [Citation.]” (Seto
v. Szeto (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 76, 85.)
 
The history of this action is long and complicated. Relevant to the
five-year rule, Plaintiffs filed their original complaint on June 27, 2018. Parties
do not dispute that, with the extra six months added under Emergency Rule
10(a),[1]
the original deadline to bring the case to trial under Code of Civil Procedure
section 583.310 was December 27, 2023.
 
            Here,
Defendants argue that failure to bring this action to trial within the five-year
period was the result of Plaintiff’s own conduct. That is, Plaintiffs were not
ready for trial when the five years expired on December 27, 2023.
 
            In
support of this argument, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs amended the pleadings
three times and engaged in discovery practices that unnecessarily delayed the
time to bring this matter to trial. Plaintiffs also initiated requests for
three trial continuances.
 
            However,
the number of amendments to the pleadings and the extent of  discovery were not unusual or dilatory in the
context of the numerous investments and entities alleged in this complex fraudulent
investment scheme complaint. 
 
This case involves
five plaintiffs/cross-defendants, 24 defendants, 23 causes of action, two cross-
complaints and extensive discovery. The pleadings were not set until March 11, 2022
– or even later if the Court considers Defendants’ amendment to the answers. As
the opposition notes, Plaintiffs served 405 sets of written discovery requests
on Defendants and 83 meet and confer letters. (Noe Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Plaintiffs
conducted 32 fact witness depositions. (Noe Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs designated five
expert witnesses, and took four expert witness depositions. (Noe Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs
opposed seven demurrers, five motions to strike and eight motions for summary
judgment and/or summary adjudication. (Noe Decl., ¶¶ 14-16.) 
 
This is not a case
where Plaintiffs sat and did nothing in this action for long periods of time
that resulted in a lack of trial readiness by the five-year deadline. Rather,
the evidence shows Plaintiffs exercised reasonable diligence in prosecuting
this complex action. 
 
Notably, Defendants’
request for assignment to a Long Cause Court effectively acknowledges the
complexity of the issues in this case. On November 30, 2022, during the hearing
on the Stephen Hall and Related Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication,
counsel for those defendants argued that the trial in this action would take
several months and would need to be submitted to the Supervising Judge for the
Civil Division in Department 1 (Dept. 1) for a Long Cause assignment.
 
            Defendants’
motion omits that they sought to amend their Answers in March 2023 (about nine months
before the five-year period was to expire), which then resulted in the filing
of multiple motions for summary judgment/adjudication on these new affirmative
defenses. While Defendants’ motions were not made in bad faith, they resulted
in further trial delay.
 
            The
parties jointly labored to submit the appropriate trial preparation material to
Dept. 1. On October 9, 2023 at the Long Cause Trial Determination, Dept. 1 determined
the parties were not ready for trial. Defendants concede that one of
these issues preventing trial readiness was related solely to Defendants. (Darbinian
Decl. ¶ 28.) Most importantly, however, Dept. 1 explained that in addition to
problems with the trial documents, the “current availability of the long cause
trial courtrooms” were likely to prevent the matter from being heard by the
five-year deadline. (Darbinian Decl., Ex. K, pp. 3-4.)[2] 
 
            Because
it was impracticable for a long cause trial to commence on December 27, 2023,
on November 3, 2023, this Court, on its own motion, extended the deadline by
which to bring this case to trial to July 1, 2024. 
 
On February 9,
2024, Dept. 1 issued a Minute Order finding that the parties had corrected certain
issues with their Long Cause trial submission paperwork, but that other issues
remained to be addressed before the case could be accepted. On April 29, 2024, approximately
two months before the extended five-year deadline is to expire, Dept. 1 found that
the parties were finally trial ready, but ordered that the case could still not
be accepted for a long cause trial assignment without a further extension of
the deadline by at least six months.  Noting
that the current five-year deadline is July 1, 2024, the Supervising Judge
explained:  “The case cannot be accepted
for a long cause trial assignment absent an extension of this deadline. Due to
the existing long cause inventory, the long cause trial courtrooms are not able
to accommodate a long cause trial that must begin by July 1, 2024. ¶ The Court
generally prefers the five-year deadline to be at least six months after the
case is accepted to the long cause trial inventory.” 
 
            To
be sure, “[t]he unavailability of courtrooms for trial does not automatically
lead to a finding of an impossible or impractical circumstance under section
583.340(c). Rather, the trial court is tasked with determining the extent to
which the unavailability of courtrooms for trial interfered with a plaintiff's
ability to ‘ “mov[e] the case to trial” during the relevant period[s].’ ” (Oswald
v. Landmark Builders, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 240, 248.)
 
            Here,
there was significant motion practice and discovery in this action involving
both sides that led to the matter being delayed.  But more importantly, it is the lack of an available
long cause trial court that prevented the matter from being heard before the
original date of December 27, 2023, and prevents it from being heard before the
tolled date of July 1, 2024. 
 
            Plaintiffs
have established that it was impossible and/or impracticable for them to
bring this case to trial within the five-year period (including the six-month
period extended by the Court). Rose v. Scott (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 537,
542 [“Impossibility occurs when there is no courtroom available.”].)


Conclusion
 
            Defendants’ motion to dismiss is
denied.  
 
            Based on the directive of Dept. 1
that the Court prefers the five-year trial deadline to be at least six months
after the case is accepted to the long cause inventory, the Court tolls the
date by which this matter must be brought to trial to no later than February
10, 2025.


