 Case Number:  23CHCV02890    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  F43 MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Ashot Mkhitaryan
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court enter an order setting aside or vacating the default
entered against him.
 
RULING:
Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On September 27,
2023, Plaintiff Christopher Anderson (Plaintiff) filed his premises liability complaint
against Defendant Ashot Mkhitaryan (Defendant). The complaint alleges causes of
action resulting from a dog bite.
 
Plaintiff filed
a proof of service indicating that Defendant was served via substituted service
at his residence at 28617 Owen Ct., Santa Clarita, CA, on January 22, 2024. It
is unclear from the wording on the proof of service if the documents were
served on a co-resident of the home or if the documents were given to a man
working on the house because the proof of service mentions that a man working
on the house picked up the papers and said that they were trash. (Farazian
Decl., Ex. B.) On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for entry of
default, which was entered by the Clerk. On July 31, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to set aside/vacate default.
 
Defendant argues
in his motion to set aside default that he did not receive notice of this
action because he was not residing at his residence at the time of service
because it was under significant construction, and the person served was not a
member of his household.
 
Defendant’s
attorney began working on this case in late July 2024. Defendant indicates in
his motion that the parties previously had an agreement to allow him to file a
responsive pleading by August 1, 2024, (Farazian Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. E), but
Plaintiff would only agree to this if Defendant was just filing an answer.
Defendant instead intends to file a motion to strike. He filed a proposed
motion to strike with this motion to set aside default.
 
Defendant
requests that the Court either enforce the parties the parties prior agreement
and allow Defendant to file the responsive pleading, or simply grant this
motion to set aside default. Because there was no formal agreement between the
parties, only an email chain, the Court will address Defendant’s motion to set
aside default.
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP Section
473(b) states as follows: 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party…from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of section 473
should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See Shapiro
v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.) Furthermore, a trial
court has wide discretion to grant relief under CCP § 473(d). (Berman v.
Klassman (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 900, 909.)
 
In this case, Defendant
indicates that the documents in this case were served on construction workers
who were working on his home while he was residing elsewhere and who were not
authorized to accept service on his behalf. (Mkhitaryan Decl., ¶¶ 5-9.) He
states that he was made aware that papers were delivered to his house but were
thrown out by the workers, which matches the wording of the proof of service
regarding the worker saying that the papers were trash, and though Defendant
tried to find the papers, he was unsuccessful. (Mkhitaryan Decl., ¶ 10.)
Defendant also claims that he never received the papers in the mail.
(Mkhitaryan Decl., ¶ 11.) He claims that he did not become aware of the lawsuit
until he received the request for default in the mail in March 2024, but it was
too late to respond to the lawsuit at that point. (Mkhitaryan Decl., ¶¶ 12-13.)
After receiving those documents, Defendant forwarded them to his insurer and
had an attorney assigned. (Mkhitaryan Decl., ¶ 14.)
 
It does not
appear that Defendant had actual notice of the lawsuit prior to the entry of
default, in which case CCP § 473.5 would also apply. However, regardless of
whether he had notice of the lawsuit, he filed his motion to set aside default
within the six month timeframe contemplated by CCP § 473(b), and it was
accompanied by his proposed motion to strike. Defendant also indicates that the
default was entered against him due to inadvertence, mistake, or excusable
neglect. 
 
Because the law
favors hearings on the merits and Defendant has met the requirements of CCP §
473(b), that is sufficient to set aside the default entered against him.
 
The Court
grants Defendant’s motion.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
motion to set aside and vacate entry of default is granted. Defendant’s motion
to strike is deemed filed.
 
Moving party to
give notice.