  Case Number:  23CHCV00683    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  F43 PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Kyle Perez
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the action.
 
RULING: Petition
is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiffs
Cecilia Thompson and Brett Thompson (Plaintiffs) filed this action on March 9,
2023. Plaintiffs allege that their son, Colin Thompson, deceased, was in the
care of White House Recovery LLC and the other Defendants (Defendants) when he
overdosed and passed away. Plaintiffs have alleged causes of action for violation
of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protective Act, negligence,
wrongful death, and survival action against Defendants, including Perez (as a
Doe Defendant).
 
On December 28,
2023, Perez, in pro per, filed a cross-complaint in which he alleges that he
was the former executive director of White House Recovery LLC and that he had
nothing to do with Colin Thompson’s death.
 
On July 26, 2024,
Perez filed this motion to compel arbitration based on an arbitration clause in
an alleged White Recovery & Detox Treatment Agreement attached to Perez’s
motion as Exhibit A. The arbitration clause reads as follows:
“Article 2. It is further understood that
any dispute between Resident and Facility, including any action for injury or
death arising from negligence, intentional tor and/or statutory causes of
action…, will be determined by submission to arbitration as provided by
California law, and not by lawsuit or resort to court process except as
California law provides for judicial review of arbitration proceedings.
Resident and Facility, as parties to this agreement, are giving up their
Constitutional rights to have a dispute under this agreement decided in a court
of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration.”
(Motion, Ex.
A.)
 
No opposition
has been filed to Perez’s motion, but he did not file proof of service by mail
until October 9, 2024. While the proof of service indicates that the motion was
mailed to Plaintiffs’ attorney on July 21, 2024, but that does not explain why
it was not filed until October 9.
 
ANALYSIS
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties
to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
The party
petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence. The trial court acts as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence. (CCP
§ 1281.2.)
 
Existence of
an Agreement
Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (CCP § 1281.2.) In ruling on a
motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine whether the
parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of
California contract law help guide the court in making this determination. (Mendez
v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
Once
petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to
respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See
Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
“With respect
to the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the¿existence¿of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court. (See¿Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp.¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218); see also CRC Rule 3.1330 [“A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden
shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.) 
 
Perez has filed
evidence of an arbitration agreement with the Court. (Motion, Ex. A.) However,
the arbitration agreement, as previously quoted, only mentions disputes between
the “Resident and Facility” and states that the Resident and Facility are the
parties to the agreement. The arbitration clause does not make any mention of
disputes between the Resident and individual employees of the Facility. Perez
was an employee of White House Recovery LLC. 
 
It is unclear
if the arbitration clause was intended to extend to employees of the Facility,
though it does mention, in a different section, that the agreement is “binding
on all parties, including their personal representative, successors, family
members and heirs.” (Motion, Ex. A.) It is possible that Perez could enforce
the agreement as a Non signatory third party or beneficiary of the agreement.
(See Laswell v. AG Seal Beach, LLC (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1399; see also
Jones v. Jacobson (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1.) However, in order to invoke
the third party exception, the burden would have been on Perez to prove that
the exception would apply to him. He has not addressed this at all in his
motion, and he has therefore waived the issue.
 
Therefore, Perez
has not proven that the arbitration agreement would apply to him. The Court
denies Perez’s petition.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant Perez’s
Petition to Compel Arbitration is denied. 
 
Moving party to
give notice.