 Case Number:  24STCV01684    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant attorneys forfeited all attorney’s fees by committing
serious ethical violations that affected representation.
Defendant
Ellis Law Corporation filed a Cross-Complaint alleging the client’s failure to
agree to payment of continent attorney fees from the personal injury
settlement.  
Defendant
Andrew Ellis moves for summary judgment.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant
Andrew Ellis’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Summary Judgment
Discussion
Defendant
Andrew Ellis moves for summary judgment based on the following argument set
forth in the separate statement and undisputed facts set forth therein: 
 
DEFENDANT
ANDREW ELLIS IS ENTITLED TO SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON THE SOLE CLAIM OF BREACH OF
CONTRACT AGAINST HIM BECAUSE ANDREW ELLIS IS NOT A PARTY TO THE CONTRACT AND
NOT LIABLE FOR ANY ALLEGED BREACH
 
1.
Plaintiff’s own form complaint admits the he entered a written agreement with
Ellis Law Corporation, never alleging that Andrew Ellis was a party to that
agreement in his individual capacity. 
(Exh. 1 to Declaration of Mitchell J. Langberg (“Langberg Decl.)).   
 
2. By its
express terms, the agreement between Loomis and Ellis Law Corporation is
between Loomis and the firm and Ellis is not a party.  (Exh. 1 to Declaration of Andrew Ellis
(“Ellis Decl.”)). 
 
 3. Ellis is the CEO, Secretary, CFO, and sole
director of Ellis Law Corporation. 
(Ellis Decl., ¶ 2
 
 4. The agreement between Loomis and the firm
was executed solely between them; the signatory did not sign the contract in
their individual capacity—it was signed “by” the signatory “for the firm.”  (Exh. 1 to Declaration of Andrew Ellis
(“Ellis Decl.”)).
 
“Directors
and officers are not personally liable on contracts signed by them for and on
behalf of the corporation unless they purport to bind themselves individually.
. . .” (Michaelis v. Benavides (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 681, 684.)
 
Here,
because Defendant Andrew Ellis did not purport to bind himself personally to
the underlying retainer agreement, he cannot be held liable for the sole cause
of action for breach of contract asserted against him. As such, Defendant has
met his initial burden of demonstrating that he is entitled to judgment against
Plaintiff.
 
The
burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate that a triable issue of material fact
exits. In failing to file an opposition, Plaintiff has not met this burden.
 
As such,
the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
 