 Case Number:  23STCV02085    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al
 
  
        
  vs.
 
QUANTGENE, INC.,
  et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02085 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 17, 2024




QUANTGENE, INC., et al.
 
            vs.
 
SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al.










 
 

            Plaintiffs’
motion to compel discovery and issue sanctions is GRANTED IN PART, MOOT IN PART
consistent with the ruling set forth below. 
Defendants are sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $1,750 in
connection with this motion.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses to their RFPs (Set Three) Nos. 49-54 (to
Quantgene), and Nos. 41-47 (to Bhakdi) was withdrawn on 7/9/2024 and thus is
MOOT.  
 
On 1/31/2023,
Plaintiffs Sebastian Donovan and Arconex (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
negligent misrepresentation; and (6) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
 
            On
3/3/2023, Cross-Complainants Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Cross-Defendants Sebastian Donovan and Arconex, alleging:
(1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) false promise; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5) concealment;
(6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) conversion; (8) unjust enrichment; (9)
intentional interference with contractual relations; and (10) unfair business
practices. 
 
            On
5/1/2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel Defendants to produce discovery and seek
the imposition of issue sanctions. 
 
            On
5/14/2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel further responses from Defendants to
their Requests for Production (Set Three). 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
RFPs (Set One) and Issue
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that an order compelling Defendants to respond to their Requests for
Production (Set One) is necessary because “a year later—and less than four
months before trial, Defendants’ have still not produced significant, important
discovery that they agreed to produce and that is necessary for Plaintiffs to
conduct meaningful depositions and to prepare to address key disputed issues at
trial.” (Motion, ii: 11-14.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendants argue that they have produced approximately 150,000
pages of documents, financials, communications, emails, text messages and Slack
messages. They also contend that they have, during the pendency of this motion,
provided a privilege log and thus has resolved that issue. 
 
            However,
Defendants contend that there remains an issue over whether or not Plaintiffs
are entitled to financial data which allows them to calculate “contribution
margin”.
 
            Defendants
characterized contribution margins as follows:
 
Essentially,
contribution margin has two elements – the first is focused on the word
“contribution,” which Defendants assert means the margins on sales generated
only by sales and marketing personnel that Plaintiff Donovan recruited (See
December 2021 Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the First Amended Complaint).
The second part is focused on “margin” which is somewhat debated by the Parties
but is essentially the gross revenues of a sale minus the costs associated with
that sale, including costs of goods sold (“COGS”), labor costs, and overhead
expenses (which is the part of this calculation that the parties mostly
dispute, both as to the elements and what values should be used).
 
            (Opp.,
4: 18-24.) 
 
            Defendants
also indicated that on 6/26/2024, Defendants counsel contacted Plaintiffs’
counsel and referencing this motion, offered to provide Plaintiffs with
read-only access to bill.com, the online database and service that Quantgene
uses to process incoming invoices and pay them, and to provide complete
extracts from Quantgene’s QuickBooks system showing its general ledger,
payroll, sales and marketing staff, vendor payments and customer receipts for
the entirety of January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2023. 
 
Defendants’
counsel explained that other than pulling the underlying invoices (many of
which are already in bill.com), these data sources, along with unredacted bank
statements already produced would give Plaintiffs all of the data necessary to
calculate margins. Defendants also offered Quantgene’s newly placed CFO, Bernar
Berkirov to explain this data and how to use it as a PMQ witness for Quantgene
(Mr. Berkirov’s deposition is scheduled for July 18, 2024). (Woo Decl., ¶ 19,
Ex. B).
 
            After
review, the Court concludes that this offer resolves Plaintiffs’ concerns that
Defendants have only provided summary-level calculations of contribution
margin, without allowing Plaintiffs the opportunity to analyze how the alleged
margins were calculated. 
 
            For
this reason, the Court declines to impose issue or evidentiary sanctions on
Defendants at this time. While Plaintiffs argue they have been unduly
prejudiced by Defendants delay, given that trial is set for 8/26/2024,
Plaintiffs offer no convincing explanation as to why they have only just moved
to compel this discovery. Moreover, Defendants offered to share this additional
data back on 6/26/2024, before their opposition was due. 
 
            However,
the Court does find monetary sanctions to be appropriate, given Defendants
failure to provide a privilege log until this motion was pending. Moreover,
Defendants are ordered to produce all relevant discovery here within 10 days of
entry of this order. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is granted in part, moot in part,
consistent with the ruling set forth above. Defendants are sanctioned, jointly
and severally with counsel, $1,750. ($350/hr x 3.) 
 
II.              
RFPs (Set Three) 
 
Plaintiffs
argue that good cause exits to compel further responses to Plaintiffs’ RFP Nos.
Nos. 49-54 (to Quantgene), and Nos. 41-47 (to Bhakdi), respectively. Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants’ objections, which they raise to each of the at-issue
requests, are unfounded. 
 
On 7/9/2024, Plaintiff
filed a notice of withdrawal for this motion. Accordingly, this motion is moot.

 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 