  Case Number:  21STCV22100    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOHNNIE
  MCGEE 
  
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES 
  


 Case No.: 
  21STCV22100
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 17, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is MOOT. The Court declines to award
sanctions at this time. 
 
On
12/15/2022, Plaintiff Johnnie McGee (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendant
County of Los Angeles (County), alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) retaliation;
and (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  
 
            On
4/29/2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to his Special
Interrogatories (Set Five).
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to his Special Interrogatories Nos. 43-48,
arguing that Defendants’ objections to these requests are meritless.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees Plaintiff’s requests are relevant. These
Interrogatories ask Defendant the race and ethnicity of Department personnel
who have/had the title of FPEA I or FPEA II, and have had their performance
evaluation prepared by either Jackie Switzer, James Bailey, and/or Albert
Yanagisawa.
 
However, in
opposition, Defendant indicated that it agreed to supplement its responses and
will provide: “Two years of race and ethnicity prior to the lawsuit and two
years after the lawsuit for Fire Prevention Engineering Assistants I and II
(“FPEA”) that were evaluated by three (3) supervisors for the County - Jackie
Switzler, James Baily and Albert Yanagisawa.”
 
Given
Defendant’s willingness to informally resolve this motion through
meet-and-confer, the Court finds substantial justification for Defendant’s
conduct, and declines to award sanctions.  

Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is moot. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 