  Case Number:  19STCV32652    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  URI PEREZ, Plaintiff(s), vs.  GEORGE ANDERSON, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 19STCV32652  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA WITHOUT PREJUDICE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 27, 2024  Plaintiff Uri Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant George Anderson and Does 1 to 50 for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident. Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint naming Karo Vartanian as Doe 1.  Defendants George Anderson and Karo Vartanian  (“Defendants”) now seek the production of business records from BioHealth Pain Management (“BioHealth”) and for BioHealth to pay sanctions. Defendants aver that Plaintiff received significant medical treatment, including surgery, which he claims arises from the subject accident.  Defendant served BioHealth with three subpoenas, seeking medical, billing and imaging records. Defense counsel declares that no objections were made by Plaintiff to the subpoenas, and that BioHealth has not provided documents to date despite attempts to meet and confer by calling the custodian of records and mailing correspondence.   However, before proceeding on the merits, Defendants must first resolve the procedural issue of service. Defendants seeking an order for a nonparty to comply with Defendant’s subpoenas require the non-party to also be served with the moving papers by personal service, unless the nonparty agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service. (California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.) The proof of service indicates BioHealth was served by mail and e-mail; however, there is no proof that BioHealth had agreed to accept service by this method.  The motion is therefore denied without prejudice.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 26th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   