 Case Number:  24STCV04823    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  19 DEMURRER
IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, IN PART.
 PROCEEDING:
(1) Demurrer to First Amended Complaint 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant THCD Altmore, LLC 
OPPOSING
PARTY: Plaintiff Blue Nile Management, LLC 
TENTATIVE
RULINGS 
(1) Plaintiff
Blue Nile Management’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in its
entirety.  The Court GRANTS LEAVE TO
AMEND as to causes of action two (2) and three (3) but not as to causes of
action four (4) and five (5). Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend. 
Counsel
for Defendant THC Altmore to lodge a proposed order in accordance with these
rulings. 
Counsel
for Defendant THC Altmore to give notice. 
STATEMENT
OF THE CASE 
This
action alleges breach of written guarantee arising from the alleged breach of a
written and commercial lease between Plaintiff and Lessor Blue Nile Management,
LLC (herein “Plaintiff” or “Lessor” or “Blue Nile”) and non-party THC DESIGN,
INC. and 1346 LA, LLC, as Lessee (collectively “Tenant”) on April 16, 2021.
Lessor and Lessee entered into the subject lease, Standard
Industrial/Commercial Multi-Tenant Lease—Gross (the “Lease”) creating a
tenancy over said premises commonly referred to as 2317 S Santa Fe Ave., Los
Angeles 90058 (herein “Premises”). (Compl., ¶ 18, Ex. A.) Plaintiff further
alleges that on April 16, 2021, Defendant Ryan Jennemann signed a written Guaranty
of Lease (“Guaranty”) in the County of Los Angeles, California, to induce
Plaintiff to extend credit and personally guarantee the indebtedness of Tenant
relating to the amounts due to Plaintiff under the Lease. (Compl., ¶ 19, Ex.
B.) 
On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff / Lessor Blue Nile, filed the original complaint.
Then, on June 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the underlying First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendant Ryan Jennemann (“Jennemann”), as the Guarantor, and
naming Defendant THCD Altmore, LLC (“Altmore”) as Tenant’s “alter ego,” alleging
that some time in August of 2023, Tenant breached the Lease by failing to pay
in full the monies due. (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff alleges that as of February 1, 2024, Tenant owes
Plaintiff no less than $416,765.36 for rent and other charges. The FAC is now
the operative complaint and alleges five causes of action: 
1.     Breach of Written Guarantee
2.     Unfair Business Practices
3.     Declaratory Relief
4.     Unjust Enrichment
5.     Quantum Meruit 
Defendant
Altmore now demurs to the FAC.     
GROUNDS
FOR MOTIONS 
(1)
Demurrer 
Defendant
Altmore demurs to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action of the
FAC on the grounds they are uncertain and fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Defendant further contends that Plaintiff has
failed to plead facts supporting its alter ego claims because Altmore and
Tenant did not share any ownership interest and Plaintiff’s allegations are
actually adverse to one another. Defendant Altmore does not demur to the first
cause of action, as the first cause of action is only alleged against Defendant
Jennemann.
 
MEET/CONFER  
Defense
Counsel Kevin Khachatryan sets forth in his declaration (“Khachatryan Decl.”)
that on September 3, 2024, he convened a meet and confer pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc, § 430.1(a) with Plaintiff’s counsel of record. (Khachatryan Decl., ¶ 7.)
Defense Counsel states that despite thoroughly engaging in meet and confer
efforts and discussing each issue raised in the instant demurrer with good
faith, counsels were unable to reach agreement on the issues herein. (Id.
at ¶¶ 8-9.) Defendant Altmore has complied with the meet and confer
requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)   
DISCUSSION 
I.
Demurrer 
A.
Demurrer for Uncertainty 
Defendant
Altmore demurs to each cause of action on the grounds they are uncertain.
Plaintiff alleges that Altmore provided Tenant (THC Design) with a several
million-dollar loan but then refused to provide Tenant with access to a
significant portion of the Loan thereby putting Tenant’s business as THC Design
in jeopardy and causing it to breach its commercial Lease with Plaintiff Blue
Nile. (Dem., pg. 2.) 
A
demurrer to a pleading lies where the pleading is uncertain.  (Code Civ. Proc. §430.10(f).) “Uncertain”
includes ambiguous and unintelligible. (Id.)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; see also Code Civ. Proc. §430.10(e).) Moreover,
“[a] special demurrer should be overruled where the allegations of the
complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which
he is to meet.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643.) 
Here,
Plaintiff argues the FAC is not so uncertain that Defendant Altmore cannot
reasonably respond to it. On the other hand, Defendant contends Altmore is left
in a position to wonder what it is being accused of and why it is a named party
in this lawsuit, considering Plaintiff’s attempt to invoke the alter ego claim
is based on several contradictory claims. Defendant further asserts that in one
argument, Plaintiff tries to establish a unity of interest by alleging that
“Tenant’s assets, and monies were treated interchangeably with [Altmore],”
“significant assets of Tenant are now within the control of [Altmore],” and
“the funds and assets of Tenant were diverted or transferred to [Altmore] or
for the benefit of [Altmore.] (FAC, ¶¶ 27, subd.(c), (j), (k).) Yet, in another
argument, Plaintiff alleges that Tenant and Altmore were adverse given Altmore
“made a purported loan” to Tenant and Tenant went “into default of purported
obligations owed to [Altmore][.]” (FAC, ¶¶ 8, 27, subd. (s).) Thus, Defendant
Altmore argues that Plaintiff is claiming Altmore was the alter ego of Tenant
with a unity of interest while also conceding that Altmore was Tenant’s lender
and that Tenant defaulted on Altmore’s loan. In effect, Tenant’s interests were
adverse to Altmore. 
Defendant
Altmore continues by arguing the following: (a) Plaintiff’s alter ego
allegations constitute conclusory statements devoid of factual support; (b) Plaintiff
lacks standing against Defendant Altmore; (c) Plaintiff was not even a party to
the Loan Agreement between Altmore and Non-party lessees; and similarly, (d) Defendant
Altmore was not even named in the Lease Agreement and Guaranty which are
collectively twenty-three (23) pages and fail to make a single reference to Altmore
or even condition the Lease on Altmore lending Tenant any funds. (FAC, ¶¶
18-19, Exs. A-B.) 
The
Court finds the FAC is uncertain as to both establishing its alter ego claims
and as to establishing standing with respect to Defendant Altmore which will be
discussed further below. Thus, with respect as to uncertainty as to each of the
causes of action, the demurrer is ultimately SUSTAINED.
 
i.
Alter Ego Theory / Piercing the Corporate Veil 
“
‘The alter ego
doctrine arises when a plaintiff comes into court claiming that an opposing
party is using the corporate form unjustly and in derogation of the plaintiff's
interests.... In certain circumstances the court will disregard the corporate
entity and will hold the individual shareholders liable
for the actions of the corporation[.]’ ” (Greenspan v. LADT LLC
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 510, 121 Cal.Rptr.3d 118 (Greenspan).) Under both California and Delaware law,
the alter ego
doctrine extends to LLCs (see Corp. Code, § 17703.04, subd. (b); NetJets Aviation, Inc. v. LHC Communications, LLC (2d
Cir. 2008) 537 F.3d 168, 178 (NetJets)), and
generally requires the proponent to demonstrate two elements: (1) a unity of interest and ownership such
that the separate personalities of the corporation and the individual do not
exist; and (2) an inequitable result if the corporate identity is not
disregarded. (See Greenspan, at p. 511, 121
Cal.Rptr.3d 118; NetJets, at pp. 177–178; emphasis
added.) 
“
‘The standards for the application of alter ego principles are high, and the
imposition of [alter ego] liability ... is to be exercised
reluctantly and cautiously.’” Still, ‘ [t]he greatest liberality is to be
encouraged ’ in allowing judgments to be amended to add the ‘real defendant,’
or alter ego of
the original judgment debtor, ‘ in order to see that justice is done.’ ” (Highland Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of
Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 281, 199 Cal.Rptr.3d 226 (Highland Springs).) JPV I L.P. v. Koetting,
88 Cal. App. 5th 172, 189, 304 Cal. Rptr. 3d 550, 564 (2023), review denied (May 17, 2023).) 
“Among
the factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are commingling of funds and
other assets of the two entities, the holding out by one entity that it is
liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership in the two
entities, use of the same offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell
or conduit for the affairs of the other.” (Roman Catholic Archbishop v.
Superior Court, supra, 15 Cal.App.3d at pp. 406, 411, 93 Cal.Rptr.
338; Associated Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co., supra,
210 Cal.App.2d at pp. 838–839, 26 Cal.Rptr. 806.) Other factors which have been described in the case law
include inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of
segregation of corporate records, and identical directors and officers. (See Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1269, 1285, 31 Cal.Rptr.2d 433; Associated Vendors, Inc. v.
Oakland Meat Co., supra, 210 Cal.App.2d at pp. 838–839, 26 Cal.Rptr.
806; Alberto v. Diversified Group, Inc., supra, 55 F.3d at
p. 205.) No one characteristic governs, but the courts must look at all the
circumstances to determine whether the doctrine
should be applied. (Talbot v. Fresno–Pacific Corp.
(1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 425, 432, 5 Cal.Rptr. 361.) Alter ego is an extreme remedy, sparingly used.
(Calvert, supra, 875 F.Supp. at p. 678.) (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Ct., 83 Cal. App. 4th
523, 538–39, 99 Cal. Rptr. 2d 824, 836 (2000).) 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendant Altmore rely on
Plaintiff’s allegations that the alter ego doctrine applies to invoke Defendant
Altmore such that Defendant Altmore and Tenant are essentially the same legal
entity. Defendant Altmore argues that Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts
to invoke alter ego doctrine because Plaintiff relies on general assertions and
thus, fails to allege sufficient facts to establish that (1) there is a unity
of interest between Altmore and Tenant; and (2) injustice will occur absent
imposition of the extreme remedy of alter ego. (Mot., pg. 5.) 
a.
Unity of Interest 
Defendant
Altmore provides that the Court of Appeal has delineated eighteen factors to
consider when evaluating whether two parties are alter egos of one another
(Mot., pg. 5.) and that Plaintiff’s FAC fails to address thirteen of the
eighteen relevant alter ego factors. (Id., pg. 6.) Moreover, Defendant
argues that the five factors Plaintiff attempts to address are inadequate
because they each exist in any lender-borrow relationship and are therefore not
specific characteristics of an alter ego relationship. (Id., pg. 7.)
Defendant concludes that Plaintiff attempts to establish unity of interest
between a lender and borrow premises on the lender’s post-default actions
against the borrower, which purportedly affected the borrower’s commitments to
its landlord. (Id., pg. 8.) Thus, expanding the alter ego doctrine to
such a relationship would set a dangerous precedent because then virtually
every bank or corporation that loaned money to a borrower would be potentially
on the hook for borrower’s commitments regardless of privity. (Id.)
Moreover, Defendant maintains Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory. 
Defendant
states Plaintiff only addresses Factors 1, 2, 13, 17, 18. Factor 1 concerns
whether there was comingling of funds between the two entities. Defendant states that Plaintiff’s
FAC alleges the following with respect to Factor 1:
 
“Tenant’s
assets, and monies were treated interchangeably with [Altmore] as revealed by
the exorbitant and usurious interest rates to [THC Design][,]” “significant
assets of Tenant are now within the control of [Altmore][,]” and “the funds and
assets of Tenant were diverted or transferred to [Altmore] or for the benefit
of [Altmore] and DOES 1-10, inclusive, or other [Altmore] controlled
entities[.]” (FAC at ¶¶27, subd. (c), (j), (k).) 
 
Defendant reasons that these
allegations are merely general assertions and more importantly, contradicted by
Plaintiff’s own pleadings which specifically allege that Altmore “made a
purported loan” to Tenant and Tenant went “into default of purported
obligations owed to [Altmore][.]” (FAC, at ¶¶8, 27, subd. (s).) (Mot.,
pg. 7.)
 
Factor
2 is whether an individual treated the assets of the corporation as his own.
Defendant states that Plaintiff again attempts to rely on conclusory statements
that “Tenant defaulted on Altmore’s loan” while Defendant finds such
circumstances are drastically distinguished from a situation wherein a
corporation interchangeably uses another corporation’s assets without any
special circumstance, including attempting to recover assets from a borrower
that defaulted on a loan. (Mot., pg. 7.) 
Factor 13 is whether the corporation
was being used as a mere shell. Altmore states that Plaintiff tries to address
this factor by alleging that “[THC Design] has been and now is a mere shell and naked framework
which [Altmore] used as a conduit for the conduct of [Altmore’s] personal
business, property and affairs.” (FAC, ¶ 27, subd. (i). Critically, Plaintiff
fails to provide details as to how THC Design (Tenant) is a shell and framework
used to Altmore’s business and property affairs. Moreover, Plaintiff does not
allege that Altmore has any ownership interest with Tenant THC Design.  (Mot., pg. 7.)
 
Factor 17 is whether assets were/are
being diverted from a corporation or stockholder to another person or entity to
the detriment of creditors. Factor 18 is whether the formation and use of a
corporation is used to transfer to it the existing liability of another person
or entity. Defendant argues Plaintiff attempts to address these factors by
alleging that “[Altmore]
disregarded corporate and legal formalities of Tenant, manipulated assets and
liabilities between Tenant and [Altmore] to concentrate the assets and interest
in [Altmore] and the liabilities in Tenant.” (FAC, ¶¶8, 27, subd. (n). (Mot.,
pg. 8.)
 
On Opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the most familiar application of the alter ego doctrine is to disregard form
over substance to hold those in a single enterprise accountable to avoid
injustice. (Opp., pgs. 3-4.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends that the FAC alleges
facts to support alter ego liability by alleging that (a) Defendant Altmore was an
equitable owner; (b) Tenant was a mere shell, instrument, and/or conduit used
in pursuit of Altmore’s own business objectives; and (c) that Tenant and THCD
are operated as one integrated entity. (FAC, ¶¶ 14- 16, 27 and 28.) [1]
Plaintiff asserts that “[a] plaintiff need only allege ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts to support a plaintiff’s alter ego allegations.
Dore v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 [Less particularity
of pleading is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge
of the facts at least equal, or superior, to that of the plaintiff.]. (Opp.,
pg. 4.) With respect to Defendant’s argument concerning the lender-borrow
relationship, Plaintiff argues that the FAC does allege a de facto
ownership in Tenant by Altmore because paragraphs 14 and 15 of the FAC allege
as follows:
 
“Any
loan must be treated as equity because the borrower THC DESIGN,
INC...[was] undercapitalized at the time the loan was made and the nominal loan
made by THCD to THC DESIGN, INC...was in reality a de facto contribution
to capital because of the (a) inadequacy of capitalization of THC
DESIGN, INC.., (b) the terms of the loan agreement, (c) the relationship of the
loan debt to other creditors,(d) THCD was unlicensed as a lender, (e) the loan
was given under conditions where repayment was highly speculative, and was
lacking in realistic creditor safeguards.. [and that] THC DESIGN, INC. all
times ...mentioned in this Complaint, ... was dominated, influenced, and
controlled for THCD, and THC DESIGN, INC. was a mere conduit for the business,
property, and affairs of THCD... by among other things, including the overt
control over which of Tenants’ creditors would be paid, knowing that certain of
those creditors, such as Plaintiff, would continue to extend benefits to
Tenants with no chance of being repaid...by, among other things, including the
overt control over which of Tenants’ creditors would be paid, knowing that
certain of those creditors, such as Plaintiff, would continue to extend
benefits to Tenants with no chance of being repaid...by, among other things,
including the overt control over which of Tenants’ creditors would be paid,
knowing that certain of those creditors, such as Plaintiff, would continue to
extend benefits to Tenants with no chance of being repaid... THCD locked out
the listed owners of THC DESIGN, INC. in or about the fourth quarter of 2023
from all financial and accounting records of THC DESIGN, INC... THCD locked out
the listed owners of THC DESIGN, INC. in or about the fourth quarter of 2023
from all financial and accounting records of THC DESIGN, INC.” 
(FAC,
¶¶ 14- 15 [Emphasis added]; Opp., pgs. 4-5.)
Thus, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant Altmore is attempting to improperly disguise or label an “equity
contribution” in Tenant as a loan. (Opp., pg. 5.) Considering such allegations
and that ownership can take two forms (“de jure” or “de facto”), Plaintiff
argues it should be allowed to prove its case that Altmore’s loan must be
treated as equity and “was in reality a de facto contribution to
capital” of the Tenant. 
 
Here, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegations are indeed conclusory in nature with respect to
pleading sufficient facts establishing Tenant THC and Defendant Altmore had a
unity of interest. Defendant provides that “[g]eneral assertions by way of
conclusion are deemed insufficient to state a claim for relief.” (See
Metzenbaum v. Metzenbaum (1948) 86 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) “Conclusory
allegations will not withstand demurrer.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal. 4th 797, 808 [Citation].) (Mot., pg. 3.) Under Code
Civ. Proc. §430.10 (f), a party may object by demurrer to the pleading where it
is “uncertain,” meaning ambiguous or unintelligible. A pleading must allege
facts, not conclusions, and material facts must be alleged directly. (Ankeny
v. Lockheed Missiles and Space Company (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531, 537; Code
Civ. Proc., §430.10, subd. (f).) Further, “the essential facts upon which a
determination of the controversy depends should be stated with clearness and
precision so that nothing is left to surmise. []” (Ankeny, 88 Cal.App.3d
at 537.) (Mot., pg. 4.)
 
In this case, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s arguments contradictory in asserting Defendant Altmore had both a
unity of interest with Tenant while at the same time, acting adversely to its
interests in its position as a lender to Tenant as the borrower. Considering
Tenant defaulted and has been adversely affected by the terms and/or enforcement
of the subject Loan, Plaintiff cannot merely conclude that a loan equates to
equitable ownership without alleging specific facts as to how in this case.
Moreover, the Court finds Plaintiff’s assertion that “there was a ‘Handshake
Agreement’ to grant equity in Tenant, as shown in the table and Schedule
5.19(B) to the Loan Agreement (Exhibit B to the Declaration of Maurice Wainer)”
problematic given there is an express Loan Agreement which does not evidence a “Handshake
Agreement” or such equity contribution. (Wainer Decl., Ex. B.) (Opp., pg. 11.) 
 
The Court agrees with Defendant’s
arguments for Factors 2, 13, 17, and 18. Although Plaintiff provides legal
authority suggesting that Plaintiff need not plead facts with such
particularity if the evidence of such facts are in Defendant’s custody,
Plaintiff does not establish this applies in the instant case. The Court indeed
notes that Plaintiff provides legal authority suggesting that evidentiary facts
are not required in the instant case and that Plaintiff need only plead the
ultimate facts. However, the Court finds Plaintiff does not establish its
pleadings constitute “ultimate facts” here either. Thus, Plaintiff has failed
to plead sufficient and essential facts establishing a unity of ownership such
that the determination of this controversy is stated with clearness and
precision so that there is nothing left to surmise. 
 
b. Injustice 
 
Defendant provides that “a creditor remaining unsatisfied
if the corporate veil is not pierced is insufficient to allege that injustice
will occur to Plaintiff.” (Assoc. Vendors, Inc., supra, 210 Cal.App.2d
at p. 842.) (Mot., pg. 9.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s allegations with
respect to the injustice element focus on a concern that Plaintiff’s damages
would remain unsatifised if the Court does not impose the remedy of alter ego
liability. (Mot., pg. 9.) For example, Plaintiff alleges having “no chance of
being repaid.” (FAC at ¶27, subd. (f); see also subd. (l),(m), (q).) Similarly,
Plaintiff alleges “adherence to the fiction of the separate corporate existence
of Tenant would . . . sanction a fraud and promote injustice in that Plaintiff
would be unable to realize upon any judgment in its favor[.]” (Id. at
¶28; Mot., pg. 9.)
 
On Opposition, Plaintiff does not
specifically address Defendant’s argument that a concern of Plaintiff’s damages
remaining unsatisfied—if the Court does not impose alter ego liability—is  an insufficient concern to allege that
injustice will occur to Plaintiff. Instead, Plaintiff’s Opposition ends the
discussion of alter ego by concluding in its analysis for element one and not
element two. Plaintiff maintains it should be allowed to prove its case that Tenant’s
loan “must be treated as equity” and “was in reality a de facto
contribution to capital” of the Tenant. (Opp., pg. 6.) 
 
The Court agrees with Defendant
that Plaintiff’s concern that damages will remain unsatisfied if the Court does
not impose alter ego liability is not sufficient to allege facts to establish
the second element of injustice. As such, the Court finds Plaintiff does not
plead sufficient and particular facts to establish the second element of the
alter ego doctrine here. Plaintiff fails to plead facts with the requisite
certainty needed to allege alter ego liability such that Defendant Altmore is
apprised of the issues it needs to properly meet and defend itself. 
 
Thus, Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s allegations of alter ego liability is SUSTAINED. 
 
B.
Demurrer for Sufficiency 
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties. 
(Code Civ. Proc, § 452; Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  “We treat
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of
the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed.”  (Mitchell v. California
Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege
facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861,
872.)   
Despite
the Court finding Plaintiff’s pleadings uncertain in alleging alter ego
liability against Defendant Altmore, the Court will nevertheless further
analyze Defendant’s additional arguments on the merits as to each of the
individual causes of action. 
1. Second
Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices (Section 17200) 
The
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) includes any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.) The UCL’s coverage embraces
“anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same
time is forbidden by law.”  (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180.)  “By proscribing any
unlawful business practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and
treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes
independently actionable.”  (Id.;
see also Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969
[“Virtually any law can serve as the predicate for a section 17200 action.”].)
“A UCL action is an equitable action by means of which a plaintiff may recover
money or property obtained from the plaintiff or persons represented by the
plaintiff through unfair or unlawful business practices. It is not an
all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.”  (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration
Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173; see also Korea Supply Co. v.
Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1143 [UCL “borrows”
violations from other laws by making them independently actionable as unfair
competitive practices].) 
Here, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s Section 17200 claim is similar to Lagrisola v. North American
Financial Corp. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1189 whereby a California Court
of Appeal affirmed a trial court’s decision to sustain a demurrer in an action
brought by borrowers that claimed a Section 17200 violation against an unlicensed
lender. (Mot., pg. 11.) The Court of Appeal reasoned that the borrowers
failed to allege suffering any loss because of the lender’s unlicensed status.
(Lagrisola, supra, 96 Cal.App.5th at p. 1189). The Court of Appeal then went
further to state that “even if we accept that [defendant] was legally required
to disclose its lender license number, and failed to do so, there are no
allegations in the complaint indicating the [plaintiffs] relied on any
belief or understanding that they may have regarding [defendant’s] licensure
status at the time they entered the loan.” (Id. at p. 1193.) Defendant
contends that similar to Lagrisola, here Plaintiff claims Altmore
unlawfully initiated a commercial loan to Tenant while unlicensed and by
charging excessive interest rates. (Mot., pgs. 10-11.) Unlike Lagrisola,
however, Plaintiff is claiming injury from Altmore’s alleged unlawful business
practice of lending money to a third-party borrower while
allegedly being unlicensed in California and charging usurious interest. (FAC
at ¶8.) Like Lagrisola, Plaintiff fails to show that its economic injury
was the result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice or
false advertising of Altmore. 
 
On Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the FAC makes clear and obvious that Defendant Altmore directly impacted
Plaintiff’s ability to collect rent. (Opp., pg, 7.) Furthermore, Plaintiff
argues that “[i]t has long been clear that “unlawful” claims may be brought
based on violations of statutes that have no private cause of action and that a
systematic failure to fulfill contractual obligations or similar promises
independently violates the UCL. (See Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57
Cal.4th 364 [recognizing that a violation of a statute that does not have a
private right of action may form the basis for a UCL claim]; State Farm v.
Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1104.) Plaintiff provides the
FAC pleads in pertinent part as follows:
 
“THCD
engaged in “unlawful” conduct by initiating commercial loans in California in
violation of California Financial Code §§ 22000, et seq. without a)
being licensed to initiate such loans in California or b) being exempt from
licensure and by charging interest in excess of the statutory maximum rate
applicable to such transactions as set forth in California Constitution Article
XV, 1... [T]here is no doubt that any loan made by THCD to THC DESIGN, INC. and
1346 LA, LLC was an equity investment by THCD in THC DESIGN, INC. and 1346 LA,
LLC rather than a loan... That THCD disregarded corporate and legal formalities
of Tenant, manipulated the assets and liabilities between Tenant and THCD to
concentrate the assets and interests in THCD and the liabilities in Tenant.”
(FAC, ¶¶ 11-14, 27.) 
 
Here, the Court finds that
Plaintiff does not specifically address Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s
FAC fails to plead that an economic injury was caused by Altmore being
unlicensed or caused by unfair business practices or false advertising of Altmore.
While the Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegation of usurious or excessive
interest rates does not depend on Plaintiff’s allegations of Altmore’s license
status, the Court does find that Plaintiff does not plead facts specifying the
interest rate Altmore charged which was in excess of the applicable statutory
minimum. Thus, Plaintiff neither specifies the interest rate Altmore charged or
the statutory minimum interest rate and therefore fails to plead facts with
sufficient particularity to state a cause of action for unfair business
practices pursuant to Section 17200. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED. 
2. Third Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1060 authorizes actions for declaratory relief under a
“written instrument” or “contract.” Declaratory relief generally operates
prospectively to declare future rights, rather than to redress past wrongs. (Babb
v. Superior Court (1971) 3 Cal.3d 841, 848, 92 Cal.Rptr.
179, 479 P.2d 379; Gafcon, Inc. v. Ponsor & Associates (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1403, 120 Cal.Rptr.2d 392 (Gafcon ).) It serves to set controversies at rest before they lead to
repudiation of obligations, invasion of rights or commission of wrongs. In
short, the remedy is to be used in the interests of preventive justice, to
declare rights rather than execute them. (Ibid.)
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, [a party] would have to demonstrate its action presented
two essential elements: ‘(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to [the party's]
rights or obligations.’ ” (Wilson & Wilson v. City Council of
Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1582, 120
Cal.Rptr.3d 665.) (Jolley v. Chase Home Fin., LLC, 213 Cal. App. 4th 872, 909, 153 Cal. Rptr. 3d 546, 576 (2013), as
modified on denial of reh'g (Mar. 7, 2013).) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for declaratory relief fails because Plaintiff lacks
standing to challenge the alleged Loan agreement between Altmore and Tenant
given Plaintiff does not allege it was a party to the loan agreement between
Atlmore and Tenant. (Mot., pgs. 12013.) The FAC also does not allege that the
Loan agreement between Altmore and tenant was made for the express benefit of
Plaintiff. (Id.) Defendant provides that a “plaintiff lacks standing to
challenge a contract for which the plaintiff is not a party or when the
principal contract . . . was not made expressly for the benefit of
plaintiff[.]” (Luis v. Orcutt Town Water Co. (1962) 204 Cal.App.2d 433,
442.) (Mot., pg. 12.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that a
declaratory relief claim can be used to determine the rights of competing
creditors to an item of collateral in California. (Opp., pgs. 9-10.)Thus,
Plaintiff is not required to be a party to the Loan agreement for Plaintiff’s
declaratory relief claim to stand against Altmore. (Id.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff
provides no legal authority in its Opposition to support that Plaintiff
specifically has standing to bring a declaratory relief claim to determine the
priority, extent, and validity of competing creditor claims. Moreover, Plaintiff
does not plead facts establishing itself as a competing creditor in these
circumstances. (Mot., pg. 9.) The Court notes that Plaintiff provides the
following excerpt from paragraph 46 of the FAC:
 
“THCD claims it is owed more than 15 million dollars
and is secured by licenses, equipment, and inventory” but “THCD cannot perfect
an interest in cannabis licenses of THC DESIGN, INC” given the reasoning in the
California bankruptcy case of Smith v. C&S Wholesale Grocers, Inc. (In
Re Delano Retail Partners, LLC), No. 11-37711-B-7, 2017 Bankr. LEXIS 2397
(Bankr. E.D. Aug. 14, 2017).” 
 
The Court, however, finds the
foregoing excerpt incoherent and does not provide sufficient context to explain
the significance of a cannabis license to this declaratory relief claim or the
significance of the FAC’s citation to a California bankruptcy case. Causing
further confusion, Plaintiff then “requests this Court find [Altmore] does not
have a security interest in any cannabis licenses in the name of Tenant and
that said cannabis licenses must be used to pay Plaintiff and other creditors
of Plaintiff in advance of monies paid to [Altmore].” (Opp., pg. 9.) The Court
is at a loss as to what Plaintiff is asserting here. As such, the Court finds
Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts to state a claim for declaratory
relief. 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
3. Fourth
Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment 
Unjust enrichment is generally an inapplicable
basis for restitution where the parties have an enforceable express contract,
however, “restitution may be awarded in lieu of breach of contract damages when
the parties had an express contract, but it was procured by fraud or
is unenforceable or ineffective for some reason,” or “where the defendant
obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud, duress, conversion, or similar
conduct.” (Durell, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at p. 1370, 108
Cal.Rptr.3d 682.) “Common law principles of restitution require a party to
return a benefit when the retention of such benefit would unjustly enrich
the recipient; a typical cause of action involving such remedy is
‘quasi-contract.’ ” (Munoz v. MacMillan (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 648, 661, 124 Cal.Rptr.3d 664; see Ghirardo v. Antonioli
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 39, 51, 57 Cal.Rptr.2d 687, 924 P.2d 996 [“Under the law of
restitution, an individual may be required to make restitution if he is unjustly enriched
at the expense of another.”].) 
“Because
[Plaintiff] does not dispute there were express
form contracts in this case, he cannot assert a
quasi-contract claim for restitution based on unjust enrichment.” (Levine v. Blue Shield of
California (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1138, 117 Cal.Rptr.3d 262.) “Although
a plaintiff may plead inconsistent claims that allege both the existence of an
enforceable agreement and the absence of an enforceable agreement, that is not
what occurred here. Instead, [Sepanossian's] breach of contract claim pleaded the
existence of ... enforceable agreement[s] and [his] unjust enrichment claim did not deny the
existence or enforceability of [those] agreement[s]. [Sepanossian is] therefore
precluded from asserting a quasi-contract claim under the theory of unjust enrichment.”
(Klein, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1389-1390, 137
Cal.Rptr.3d 293.)
(Sepanossian
v. Nat'l Ready Mix Co., Inc.,
97 Cal. App. 5th 192, 207, 315 Cal. Rptr. 3d 373, 385–86 (2023).) 
Here, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff is precluded from making an unjust enrichment claim because “[t]here
is no cause of action in California labeled ‘unjust enrichment,’” (City of
Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 458, 477.) For this reason
alone, the Court should sustain the demurrer. (See Levine v. Blue Shield of
California (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1139 [affirming demurrer because
unjust enrichment is not a proper cause of action].) (Mot., pg. 13.) Defendant,
however, proceeds to reason that assuming Plaintiff could assert a standalone
claim for unjust enrichment, the elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are
(1) receipt of benefit; and (2) unjust retention of the benefit at the expense
of another. (Lectrodryer v. Seoulbank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726.)
Plaintiff does not state what the “substantial benefit” is that Defendant
Altmore received or allege that premises were exclusively rented to Tenant.
Plaintiff merely pleads that it “conferred a substantial benefit upon [Altmore]”
and “[Altmore] has been unjustly enriched and [Plaintiff[] has incurred damages
in an amount in excess of $400,000 plus other sums according to proof at
trial.” (FAC at ¶¶49, 50.) 
Plaintiff argues that “[c]ommon
counts like the Fourth Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment and the Fifth
Cause of Action for Quantum Meruit are not subject to attack by general demur
or by special demur for uncertainty.” (Auckland v. Conlin (1920) 203
Cal. 776, 778, accord Smith v. Bentson (1932) 127 Cal.App. Supp. 789,
791.) Moreover, California courts are mixed as to whether a separate cause of
action for unjust enrichment exists. (See Levine v. Blue Shield of
California (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1138.)
 
Here, the Court agrees that
California courts are mixed as to whether a separate cause of action for unjust
enrichment exists and finds Plaintiff asserts sufficient legal authority to
plead a separate cause of action for unjust enrichment. Yet, the Court finds
that using its discretion to permit Plaintiff to plead this as a separate cause
of action does not cure that fact that Plaintiff does not plead facts
establishing what the substantial benefit is that Plaintiff conferred to Defendant.
Moreover, Plaintiff’s argument that unjust enrichment is not subject to attack
by general demurrer for uncertainty is inapplicable here because Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s unjust enrichment claim on grounds beyond uncertainty. Defendant
also demurs on the basis of sufficiency and the inapplicability of the alter
ego doctrine. Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff’s opposition fails to
establish Plaintiff has pled facts sufficient to state a claim for declaratory
relief. 
Thus,
the demurrer to the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief is SUSTAINED. 
4. Fifth
Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit 
Quantum meruit refers to the well-established
principle that “the law implies a promise to pay for services performed under
circumstances disclosing that they were not gratuitously rendered.” (Long v. Rumsey (1938) 12 Cal.2d 334, 342, 84 P.2d 146.)
To recover in quantum meruit,
a party need not prove the existence of a contract (Maglica
v. Maglica (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 442, 449, 78 Cal.Rptr.2d 101; Mayborne v. Citizens' Trust & Savings Bank (1920)
46 Cal.App. 178, 182, 188 P. 1034), but it must show the circumstances were
such that “the services were rendered under some understanding or expectation
of both parties that compensation therefor was to be made” (Estate of Mumford (1916) 173 Cal. 511, 523, 160 P. 667;
see Long v. Rumsey, supra, 12 Cal.2d at p. 342, 84 P.2d
146; Crane v. Derrick (1910) 157 Cal. 667, 672, 109 P. 31;
see generally 1 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1987) Contracts, § 113, p.
138). (Huskinson & Brown v. Wolf, 32 Cal. 4th 453, 458, 84
P.3d 379, 381 (2004).) 
In its moving papers, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s quantum meruit claim fails because (a) Plaintiff’s
entire lawsuit is premised on an express Loan agreement; and (b) no services
were rendered. Defendant provides that “[I]t is well settled that there is no
equitable basis for an implied-in-law promise to pay reasonable value when the
parties have an actual agreement covering compensation.” (Hedging Concepts
v. First Alliance Mortgage, supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 1419.) Moreover,
Plaintiff’s claim rests on one vague allegation that “Plaintiff conferred a
substantial benefit upon [Altmore].” (FAC, ¶ 57.) Thus, the FAC does not claim
Altmore requested the alleged services or “substantial benefit” that Plaintiff
apparently conferred. 
 
Plaintiff addresses Defendant’s
arguments demurring to quantum meruit in the same analysis that it addresses
Defendant’s arguments as to unjust enrichment and repeats that such claims are
not subject to attack by demurrer for uncertainty. (Opp., pgs. 7-8.)
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff
does not address Defendant’s argument that (1) Plaintiff fails to plead Altmore
requested any alleged services or substantial benefit; or (2) Plaintiff does
not plead facts as to the nature of such alleged benefit, beyond the conclusory
allegation that a substantial benefit was conferred by Plaintiff on Altmore.
The Court finds these conclusory allegations insufficient to state a cause of
action for quantum meruit. Moreover, the Court finds the express Loan agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant precludes Plaintiff from having an equitable
basis for pleading a claim for quantum meruit. 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
C. Leave to Amend 
Where
the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of
cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a
chance to cure the defect in question.  (Velez
v. Smith (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1174.) 
Plaintiff’s Opposition papers request
leave to amend. Plaintiff asks that if the Court sustains the instant Demurrer
in whole or in part, Plaintiff requests leave to amend and also to allow
Plaintiff to add a cause of action for breach of contract, breach of the
lease, fraud, and interference. (Opp., pg. 10.) Plaintiff further argues
that it has good cause to believe that documents evidencing statements and
internal communications between Altmore and Tenant concerning the so-called
loan transaction remain in the exclusive custody and possession of Altmore.
(Opp., pg. 10.) Plaintiff states that Altmore should not be allowed to
successfully demur to the FAC, and continue to refuse to provide meaningful
discovery responses that would allow Plaintiffs to amend that FAC. (Id.)

 
Plaintiff states that on September
11, 2024, Plaintiff served a first set of requests for production of documents
on Altmore  (Exhibit “A” to the Declaration
of Maurice Wainer), and also thereafter provided a proposed protective
order to allow Altmore to maintain the confidentiality of any documents
produced. (Declaration of Maurice Wainer (“Wainer Dec.”), ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
Further, Plaintiff believes based on the Loan Agreement [Altmore] placed into
evidence in the matter of THCD v THC Designs, et al. (Los Angeles
Superior Court Case Number 23STCV26135), Plaintiff has good cause to believe
that the documents requested from Altmore will show that (a) Tenant was charged
a usurious interest rate of not less than twenty-three and one-third percent
(23 1/3%) per annum of the aggregate outstanding principal; (b) Altmore or its
affiliates or insiders owned an equity interest in Tenant and had no real
prospect of repayment of the loan when duel (c) Altmore was the owner of
warrants allowing Altmore to convert its debt to equity at any time; and (d)
there was a Handshake Agreements to grant equity in THC DESIGN Holdings, Inc
[Tenant] as shown in the table and Schedule 5.19(B) to the Loan Agreement (Exhibit
“B” to the Declaration of Maurice Wainer), and as such any alleged
defects raised in demurrer can be cured. (Wainer Dec., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) 
 
The Court finds that even if such
documentation and discovery support Plaintiff’s alter ego theory of liability,
it still would not cure the defective pleadings of causes of action (4) and (5)
for unjust enrichment and quantum meruit, respectively, because such causes of
action are preempted by the express Loan agreement. Thus, granting Plaintiff
leave to amend as to the fourth and fifth causes of action will serve no
purpose. The Court will, however, grant Plaintiff leave to amend as to causes
of action (2) and (3) for Unfair Business Practices and Declaratory Relief,
respectively. The Court however notes that the FAC’s pleadings as to causes of
action (2) and (3) are significantly defective at present for all the foregoing
reasons mentioned herein. Thus, significant amendments to the FAC’s pleadings
would be required to cure such deficiencies. 
 
II. Conclusion
 
In sum, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant Altmore’s demurrer in its entirety (causes of action (2) - (5)) with LEAVE TO AMEND as to
causes of action (2) and (3) for Unfair Business Practices and Declaratory
Relief, respectively, while DENYING LEAVE TO AMEND as to causes of action (4)
and  (5) for Unjust Enrichment and
Quantum Meruit, respectively.  
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer in its entirety and
grants leave to amend in part and denies leave to amend in part.


