  Case Number:  20STCV09343    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  W OTONIEL MARTINEZ v. SUMITOMO RUBBER 
NORTH AMERICA, INC., et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion for order granting relief from
potential waiver of trial by jury 
 
Date
of Hearing:          October 4, 2024                      Trial Date:       March 17, 2025 
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         20STCV09343
 
Moving Party:
            Plaintiff Otoniel Martinez
Responding
Party:       Defendants
Sumitomo Rubber North America, Inc. and Jacob Koo 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 6, 2020, Plaintiff Otoniel Martinez filed a complaint against Defendants
Sumitomo Rubber North America, Inc., Jacob Koo, and EAN Holdings, LLC for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence. On January 15, 2021, Plaintiff
dismissed EAN Holdings, LLC. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from Jury Waiver is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
Otoniel Martinez moves the court for an order granting relief from Plaintiff’s waiver
of a jury trial in this matter pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
631(c), (e), and (g). 
 
A party can secure their right to a jury trial by timely demanding
a jury trial and posting jury fees. (See CCP § 631 (b), (f)(4).) Code of Civil
Procedure section 631 provides that “[a]t least one party demanding a jury on
each side of a civil case shall pay a nonrefundable fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150), unless the fee has been paid by another party on the same side
of the case.” (CCP § 631(b).) The fee must be paid before the date scheduled
for the initial case management conference in the action. (CCP § 631(c).) If no
case management conference is scheduled in a civil action, the fee shall be due
no later than 365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint. (CCP
§ 631(c)(2).) A party waives jury trial by failing to timely pay the fee,
unless another party on the same side of the case has paid that fee.¿(CCP §
631(f)(5).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a trial
by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” (CCP §
631(g).) “A trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law when relief
has been denied where there has been no prejudice¿to the other party or to the
court from an inadvertent waiver.” (Tesoro del Valle Master Homeowners Assn.
v. Griffin¿(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638.) Policy favors the court using
its discretion to proceed with a jury trial. (Bishop v. Anderson¿(1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 821, 823.)
 
Plaintiff argues they inadvertently believed the jury trial had
been demanded when the initial complaint was filed on March 6, 2020 or shortly
after it was filed and now seek relief from any potential waiver. Here, the court
finds that Plaintiff did waive a trial by jury. First, the initial complaint
was filed on March 6, 2020, and a CMC was not scheduled.  Thus, Plaintiffs had until March 6, 2021 to
pay the jury fee -- one year after the initial filing of the complaint. Plaintiff
concedes the jury fee was not paid until September 25, 2023. Plaintiff contends
confusingly that prior to making the payment, Plaintiff made a demand for a
jury trial in his case management conference statement filed on July 30, 2024,
which could not occurred as the CMC statement was filed a year after fees were
posted.   Nonetheless, Plaintiff contends
there would be no prejudice as all parties have been aware of Plaintiff’s
intention for a jury trial for more than a year, and the parties have worked
together to continue the trial several times.  
 
 
Defendants
Sumitomo Rubber North America, Inc. and Jacob Koo oppose the motion on the
grounds Plaintiff has not met their burden of explaining to this court how the
waiver occurred and why relief should be provided. Specifically, Plaintiff has
not explained why fees were suddenly posted in July 2023, and why counsel
declares that the waiver was realized until July 2024. In other words,
Plaintiff has not explained why jury fees were paid 3.5 years later and the
instant motion was made 1.5 years after Plaintiff first posted the fees.
Moreover, any lack of prejudice does not stand alone as a basis to relief a
jury waiver. Defendants contend this case has been pending for years without
mention of Plaintiff seeking relief from the waiver of a jury trial. 
 
While it is true that it took Plaintiff three and a half years to
notice that jury fees had not been paid, counsel for Plaintiff has provided a
declaration that they believed the jury fees were posted when the complaint was
first filed in 2020. (Hernandez Decl. ¶3.) It was not until a review of the
court’s register of actions that Plaintiff’s counsel learned Plaintiffs had
inadvertently failed to demand a jury trial and had inadvertently failed to
timely post jury fees in this case. (Hernandez Decl. ¶3.) Plaintiff has
demonstrated preparedness for a jury trial and there is no prejudice to the
court or Defendants in granting relief. Furthermore, it is well-established
that when doubt exists as to relief, the court must resolve that doubt in favor
of the party seeking jury trial. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from Jury Waiver is
GRANTED. 