 Case Number:  20VECV01512    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  W CHUCK PETERS
vs EQUINOX FITNESS CENTURY CITY, inc.
 
defendant EQUINOX
FITNESS CENTURY CITY, INC.’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT  
 
Date of Hearing:        October
4, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        20VECV01512
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Equinox Fitness Century City, Inc.   
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Chuck Peters  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 18, 2020, Plaintiff Chuck
Peters filed a 32 cause of action complaint against Defendant Equinox Fitness
Century City, Inc. Plaintiff alleges when Defendant closed their location where
Plaintiff worked out, he was deprived of the benefits of his membership. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Equinox Fitness Century City,
Inc. moves the court for an Order setting aside the default and default
judgment taken against Defendant and also requests that the demurrer and motion
to strike filed on behalf of Defendant filed in another action be deemed filed
upon the granting of this motion. 
 
Relief from
default or default judgment can be sought at any time on the ground of
extrinsic mistake.  (Olivera v. Grace (1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 576; Sporn
v. Home Depot USA, Inc. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1294, 1300.) This is a form
of equitable relief, rather than statutory relief, and is based on a finding by
the court that the judgment is void. (See Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 175, 180-81 [contrasting CCP § 473(d) and extrinsic fraud and
mistake]; Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 47
[“After the six-month period for statutory relief has passed, the court may
still grant relief on equitable grounds, including extrinsic fraud or
mistake.”].)  
 
There are
three essential requirements to obtain relief on this ground: (1) a meritorious
defense; (2) diligence in seeking relief once the default or default judgment
is discovered; and (3) a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to
the original action. (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 982.)
The statutory time limits on relief under CCP §§ 473(b) and 473.5 do not apply,
but once the purported extrinsic fraud or mistake is discovered, a party is
expected to proceed diligently to seek relief. This requirement is inextricably
intertwined with prejudice to the plaintiff. (Id., at
983-984.)   
 
Defendant
argues extrinsic mistakes and fraud both exist so as to warrant this court setting
aside the default and default judgment entered against Defendant. Moreover,
Plaintiff failed to provide notice to Defendant’s counsel regarding his intent
to file the default that was entered by this court in violation of the
principles set forth in Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127. First,
Defendant contends no where does the proof of service indicate that the Civil
Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of Location was served with the summons
and complaint. Moreover, no Statement of Damages were ever personally served
upon Defendant nor did the clerk require proof of service of a Statement of
Damages. On top of that, Defendant contends Plaintiff actually never served
Defendant. As a result of the lack of service and communication, Defendant
believed Plaintiff abandoned this action like he abandoned his prior action
against Defendant in Los Angeles County Superior Court case number YC071910. 
 
As for the
extrinsic fraud, Defendant argues Plaintiff processed a default utilizing a
proof of service of the summons and complaint that he knew was not valid based
upon prior discussions with counsel for Defendant and the court. The proof of
service was served on someone who is not an agent for service of process and
moreover, Plaintiff did not complete the Notice and Acknowledgment of Receipt
as advised. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff submits a declaration of the purported process server who
served the summons and complaint to Kevin Lutz, the corporate officer and
authorized employee of GLK Corporate/Search, Inc. in Sacramento. 
 
The court
finds Defendant has sufficiently demonstrated extrinsic mistake and/or fraud.
Kevin Lutz is not listed as the registered agent for service of process. (Exh.
3.) Even if he was, there is no evidence Defendants were served with the Civil
Case Cover Sheet Addendum as required. There is also no evidence the Statement
of Damages was ever served. In addition, Plaintiff submitted a proof of service
which he was advised was improper. Moreover, once learning that a default and
default judgment had been entered, Defendant immediately moved to set aside
them. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.   The court finds that Defendant has never been
properly served.   