  Case Number:  SC126845    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENATIVE RULING – SC126845 -
Defendants’ Renewed Motion In Limine To Exclude Evidence of The Santa Monica
Rent Control Board’s Decision
HEARING DATE: February 9, 2024 at 1:30
p.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION
          Ahead of the upcoming trial, the
Court is asked to consider a Renewed Motion in Limine filed by Defendants to
exclude a decision issued by the Santa Monica Rent Control Board on August 16,
2016 (the “Decision”), and any argument related to the Decision, from
the evidence to be presented at trial. As part of the Renewed Motion,
Defendants have also asked the Court to consider the application of collateral
estoppel to the Decision, a topic which was previously considered by the Court
in 2021/2022 in view of a Motion in Limine filed by Plaintiffs.
          The Court has reviewed the Renewed Motion, filed January
5, 2024, the Opposition filed January 29, 2024 and the Reply filed February 2,
2024. 
 
RELEVANT
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
          On September 23, 2021, Defendants
filed a Motion in Limine (No 1. of 5). That Motion sought to exclude at trial
the Decision and argument related to that Decision pursuant to Evidence Code
§352.2. Plaintiffs filed their opposition to that Motion in Limine on October
4, 2021. 
          On October 12, 2021, Plaintiffs filed
a counter Motion in Limine to deem certain facts within the Decision proven
pursuant to collateral estoppel, and to bar admission of contrary evidence and
argument. 
          On February 24, 2022, the Court, by
Judge Mark Epstein, issued a sixteen-page ruling on Plaintiffs’ Motion in
Limine, finding that the elements of collateral estoppel were met and would apply
to the Decision. Judge Epstein reserved a specific finding as to the extent of
the application.
          On May 17, 2022, the Court issued a further
detailed Order where the specific facts at issue herein were reviewed and Judge
Epstein designated which ones within the Decision would be granted collateral
estoppel effect. Out of the 48 specific facts considered, Judge Epstein granted
collateral estoppel to 20 facts, denied it for 20 facts, and reserved his
position for 8 facts.[1] 
          On June 10, 2022, Plaintiffs brought
a Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s May 17, 2022 order.
          On June 23, 2022, the Court ruled on
the Motion for Reconsideration. The motion as it related to reconsideration of
the facts that would be subject to collateral estoppel was denied. The motion
as it related to the Defendants against whom collateral estoppel would apply
was granted. Upon reconsideration, the Court found that collateral estoppel
applied “only to 1647 Ocean Front, Zohoury and Rahimi (and any legal successor
in interest to 1647 Ocean Front).”
          On July 5, 2022, the Court corrected
the order “nunc pro tunc” to reflect that Defendant “SBZLP is bound by
collateral estoppel” as well.
          On January 4, 2023, the Court issued
a further order noting its intention to refer the case to Dept. 1 for
consideration of sending the case to a long cause trial court. The Court also
noted in the order that it was not vacating its collateral estoppel ruling.
          On November 28, 2023, the undersigned
was assigned by Dept. 1 to try this case as a long cause matter. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants’
Renewed Motion in Limine
          The Motion in Limine that Defendants now
bring before the Court is a “Renewed” Motion in Limine for the exclusion of the
Decision from evidence. As noted by Plaintiffs in Section IV of their
Opposition to the Renewed Motion in Limine, Defendants’ original Motion in
Limine was not ruled upon before Judge Epstein issued any orders granting
Plaintiffs’ Motion. Once Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine seeking to deem certain
facts within the Decision proven pursuant to collateral estoppel was granted,
Defendants’ Motion in Limine seeking to exclude the Decision from evidence
became moot, as the ruling on Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine was inconsistent
with Defendants’ Motion being granted.
          Given the foregoing, there is a
question as to whether Defendants’ Motion in Limine now before the Court is to
be considered as a new motion or a reconsideration (as it was implicitly but
never formally ruled on by the Court).
          If it is to be considered as the
latter, then there is no basis for this Court to reconsider the motion. The
case law establishes that in limine rulings can be reconsidered “upon the full
information at trial” (Cristler v. Express Messenger Systems, Inc., 171
Cal.App.4th 72, 90, citing People v. Turner (1990) 50 Cal.3d 668, 708), and where new evidence comes to light at trial
that “may change the context” (Rufo v. Simpson, 86 Cal. App. 4th 573,
608, citing People v. Rodrigues (1994) 8 Cal.4th 1060, 1174) and People v. Morris
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 152, 189-190). That is not the case here; no new information
has been presented by Defendants that would warrant their Motion in Limine to
be reconsidered. 
          If this is to be
considered as a new motion, Defendants have not presented a case (aside from
the discussion on collateral estoppel which is addressed below and which Judge
Epstein has already ruled upon) for why the Decision should be excluded from
evidence in its entirety, and the Court sees no basis upon which to do so. This
is particularly so in circumstances where granting the motion would have the
effect of precluding Plaintiffs’ experts from having a foundation on which to
provide their opinions. Defendants’ Renewed Motion in Limine seeking to exclude
the Decision is therefore denied.
Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine
          Neither party has formally sought a
reconsideration of the orders on Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine regarding the
applicability of collateral estoppel to the Decision. However, it appears that is
what Defendants in reality are seeking and, as both parties’ briefs are devoted
to that topic, the Court will address it here.
          Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine was
subject to thorough argument by the parties and review by the Court at the time
it was originally filed; there were several months of multiple hearings,
culminating in four carefully considered, detailed and comprehensive orders by
the Court, by Judge Mark Epstein, in late 2021 and 2022.
          Defendants did not seek a motion for
reconsideration at the time of these orders. A motion for reconsideration must
have been filed within ten days of each of those orders pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure §1008. Defendants rely on the exception in Chen v. L.A. Truck Centers, LLC, 7 Cal.App.5th 757, 757 that reconsideration of a
motion in limine is not subject to Code of Civil Procedure §1008. However, Chen
cites the wording from Cristlter quoted above in explaining the
applicability of this exception; the exception applies to reconsideration of
motions in limine “upon full information at trial”, which does not apply here.
The proceedings are currently at a pretrial stage, where no pertinent new
information has come to light since the time of the previous orders that would
mean the exception in Chen applies.
          Aside from the timing, there is no
basis in law under which it would be appropriate for this Court to reconsider
Plaintiffs’ motion. Regarding in limine motions specifically, the case law
cited by Defendants regarding reconsideration of in limine motions does not
apply in these circumstances, for the same reasons outlined above in relation
to the reconsideration of their own motion.
          More generally, it is not permissible
for a superior court judge to rethink a prior judge’s order (In re Alberto
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 421, 427; Greene v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co.
(1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1583), unless limited exceptions apply (In re Marriage
of Oliverez (2015) 238 Cal. App.4th 1242). These exceptions do not apply in
this instance; the original judge is not unavailable to entertain a
reconsideration motion (Oliverez, supra; Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232), although, as noted
above, Defendants’ opportunity to bring a reconsideration motion has in any
event passed. Neither have Defendants provided any change in facts, cited
previously unconsidered law or evidence, or demonstrated any reason why the
Court’s previous rulings on this motion were the result of inadvertence,
mistake or fraud (Oliverez, supra; People v. Riva (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 981, 992–993; Tilem v. City of Los Angeles (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 694, 706; Church of Scientology v. Armstrong (1991) 232
Cal.App.3d 1060, 1069; Sheldon v. Superior Court (1941) 42 Cal.App.2d
406, 408). Defendants’ arguments in their Renewed Motion are those which have
already been considered and ruled upon by Judge Epstein, and Defendants have
offered no valid grounds to nullify the previous decisions on those arguments.
Mere disagreement with the prior judge’s rulings is not enough (Oliverez,
supra). To allow parties to seek relief from other judges “until finally
they found one who would grant what they are seeking….would instantly breed
lack of confidence in the integrity of the courts” (Alberto, supra).
Defendants may not have a further ‘bite at the apple’ that they would not have
with Judge Epstein merely because there is now a different assigned judge. 
          Defendants have suggested that Judge
Epstein recognized that the case would be reassigned and that the trial judge
would have to consider anew whether collateral estoppel would apply to the
Decision (Declaration of Michael Vivoli, §8). However, Judge Epstein in fact did
not take a view on whether this subject could or should be reconsidered; he
said, “[t]he court is NOT weighing in on that question. Its ruling is its
ruling.” 
          As to Plaintiffs’ use of a motion in
limine to deem certain facts within the Decision proven pursuant to collateral
estoppel, although it is not a classic motion in limine, authority
suggests that it is permissible for the Court to make a ruling regarding
collateral estoppel in relation to a motion in limine (Rutter Guide, Ca.
Motions in Limine § 1:5; Bennett v. Rancho California Water Dist.,35
Cal. App. 5th 908, 248 Cal. Rptr. 3d 21 (4th Dist. 2019), as modified on denial
of rehearing, (June 13, 2019)). In any event, the opportunity to dispute the
form of motion has passed. As set out above, Defendants did not seek a motion
for reconsideration at the time and for the reasons already explained it is not
appropriate for the Court to now revisit the decisions made by Judge Epstein.
          In relation to Judge Epstein’s
rulings, Defendants have raised a concern in their Renewed Motion and Reply over
potential jury confusion and/or prejudice as to which facts the contractual
estoppel applies and to which Defendants. The Court’s view is that this can be
mitigated using specific jury instructions – discussed further below. 
As a final
point, Defendants have suggested at the end of their Renewed Motion (and Reply)
that collateral estoppel expressly applies defensively to the Decision, and
expressly serves to bar any recovery by Plaintiffs of "excessive
rent" they claim to have paid, citing the wording of several applicable Regulations.
Should Defendants wish to pursue this line of argument further, they should
file a motion for non-suit for the Court to consider. The usual purpose of motions in limine is to preclude the presentation
of evidence deemed inadmissible and prejudicial by the moving party (Rutter
Guide, Ca. Motions in Limine § 1:1, citing Blanks v. Shaw (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 336. A motion in limine is not the proper vehicle for
seeking a dispositive ruling on a claim (Rutter Guide, Ca. Motions in Limine § 1:1, citing Hana Financial, Inc.
v. Hana Bank, 735 F.3d 1158 (9th Cir. 2013), aff'd, 135 S.Ct. 907 (U.S. Jan 21,
2015)).
          Given
the foregoing, the Court will therefore not reconsider Plaintiffs’ Motion in
Limine regarding the applicability of collateral estoppel to the Decision, nor
the prior Court’s rulings on the subject.
 
CONCLUSION
          For these reasons, the Court denies Defendants’
Renewed Motion in Limine to exclude the Decision from evidence. The Court also
denies reconsideration of the rulings by Judge Epstein on Plaintiffs’ Motion in
Limine from October 2021.
          The Court orders the parties meet and
confer as to proposed instructions for the Court to provide to the jury on how
to apply collateral estoppel as it concerns the Decision and to then submit in
thirty days of this order a joint statement as to what instructions they agree
upon and as to what instructions they disagree and what their reasons are for
their positions. The Court will hold a hearing on April 24, 2024 (concurrent
with the remaining motions in limine) as to what instructions will be given.  
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


