  Case Number:  19STCV03524    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Leonard B. Weinsaft, as Trustee
of the Leonard B. Weinsaft
Revocable Trust dated February 20, 2001,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
19STCV03524




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
AMI DECKEL and PHOEBE DECKEL as
Trustees of the Ami and Phoebe Deckel Family
Trust dated December 24, 2003,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 5, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Approve Referee’s Accounting, Terminate Referee
Appointment and Order Plaintiff pay Referee’s Fees
Moving Party: Referee Kevin Singer
Responding Party: Defendant
Ami Deckel
T/R:     REFEREE’S MOTION IS
GRANTED.
            REFEREE TO NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice
to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of
the hearing.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 873.010, subdivision (b) provides that the court, upon
partition of real property, may provide for the payment of the referee’s
reasonable expenses and require the filing of final accounts of the referee,
settle the accounts of the referee, and discharge the referee. The costs of
partition include the fees and expenses of the referee as well as the
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred or paid by a party for the common
benefit. (CCP § 874.010.) The court shall apportion the costs of
partition among the parties in proportion to their interests.  (CCP §
874.040.)
            Referee
Singer moves for the following orders: (1) Approving and Settling Referee’s
Final Report and Accounting; (2) Approving Final Compensation and Reimbursement
of Expenses; (3) Approving the Referee’s recommendations regarding cost of
partition, allocation, and recommended distribution of funds; (4) exonerating
all bonds; (5) Terminating the Referee Appointment; (6) Retaining Jurisdiction
regarding this Referee Appointment.
            Singer was
appointed on April 8, 2021 as referee to partition real property. As the referee,
Singer performed various tasks related to the title to the property, tax status
of the property, insurance, and trust accounts, among other things. The Court subsequently
confirmed the sale of the property and addressed issues concerning the
occupancy of non-party Johnathan Deckel. 
Singer asserts that he
incurred $300,332.25 in fees and $7,916.68 in expenses. Singer states that there
remains an outstanding balance of $11,629.47. Singer’s Counsel has an
outstanding invoice of $210. Singer further states that there remains an outstanding
balance of $197,122.37 in the trust account. Singer requests that the Court
order the outstanding balances to be paid from the trust account, with the
remaining amount distributed to the parties along with the escrow.  
            In
opposition, Defendant Ami Deckel asserts that Singer’s distribution of the
funds ignores the parties’ settlement agreement and attempts to make various offsets
in Plaintiff’s favor. Mr. Deckel further asserts that his children’s conduct
and the extraordinary damages suffered by the partition estate cannot be offset
against the sale proceeds to be distributed to them because they are not
parties to the action. And Mr. Deckel contends that the escrow holdback
discount was not authorized and that Plaintiff’s 1031 Exchange must be
accounted for. 
Singer asserts that while the settlement
agreement and the stipulation outline the distribution of the proceeds, the parties'
stipulation is controlling. 
            The Court
has independently reviewed the agreements and finds that the offsets are reasonable.
The Stipulated Judgment provides that in the event of a partition sale the
proceeds can be offset against either party, depending on the Referee’s
determination. Singer’s determinations follow with the terms of the stipulation
and aresupported by the evidence provided. 
            Singer’s
motion is GRANTED.