 Case Number:  23STCV16507    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
Hearing Date: 6/12/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV16507 CHESTER GILCHRIST
vs FLORENCE BARGAIN, INC
Moving Party: Defendant Viva Bargain Center
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND 
 
Background
 
On November 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint alleging that he was attacked and
detained by employees of Defendant Viva Bargain Center after being accused of
stealing a lighter. In the FAC, Plaintiff seeks punitive damages against
Defendant Viva Bargain Center. Defendant now moves the Court to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.)
 
Leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Vaccaro
v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)
 
There is a dispute between the parties
regarding the timeliness of the present motion to strike. On November 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the first amended complaint, and on May 10, 2024, Defendant
filed the motion to strike. The motion to strike was not filed within the
statutory deadline. The issue revolves around an email exchange between the
parties concerning whether Plaintiff granted Defendant an extension to file the
present motion. On April 26, 2024, Defendant requested an extension of two
weeks to file a responsive pleading by May 10, 2024. Plaintiff responded that “two
weeks to answer the complaint is agreeable.” Defendant believed that the
extension applied to the motion to strike when it asked for an extension to
file a responsive pleading in the initial email, while Plaintiff argued that the
extension only applied to an answer and not to a motion to strike based on the
language of the response. The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument unpersuasive, as
the use of the word “answer” while also using the word “agreeable” in response
to the broader inquiry appears to be gamesmanship that the Court will not
condone. In any event, the Court can at any time in is discretion strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court exercises that discretion.
Defendant has fulfilled the meet and
confer requirement, as Plaintiff did not respond to Defendant’s meet and confer
letter. Although Defendant did not quote in full portions sought to be stricken,
Defendant’s request to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damage falls
under an exception under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1322(a).
Punitive
Damages
A plaintiff must assert facts with
specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice. To wit, there is a
heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1033, 1041-1042; Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)  Because Defendant
Viva Bargain Center is a corporation, a different set of facts need to be pled
for punitive damages against an employer/corporation. “An employer shall
not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an
employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(b).) 
Discussion
In the Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that he has fulfilled the pleading requirement for punitive damages by pleading
the following in the FAC: 
·       
On or about July 22, 2021, PLAINTIFF, a Black
eighty-seven-year-old male who walks with cane, was a customer inside the
business known as Viva Bargain Center and/or Florence Viva Bargain Center
located 1526 East Florence Avenue in the City of Los Angeles (the “PREMISES”).
(FAC ¶ 14). 
·       
On or about July 22, 2021, unidentified non-Black employees
of Defendants…, while on the PREMISES and providing store business and/or
security services at the PREMISES on behalf of the PREMISES
DEFENDANTS,…instigated and participated in a verbal and physical altercation
with PLAINTIFF by aggressively confronting PLAINTIFF, addressing PLAINTIFF in a
combative tone and demeanor, accusing PLAINTIFF of stealing a lighter, and
using physical force against PLAINTIFF, by, amongst other actions, physically
detaining PLAINTIFF, restricting PLAINTIFF’s freedom of movement by force, and
causing PLAINTIFF to sustain injuries to his person. (FAC ¶ 16). 
·       
The PREMISES DEFENDANTS ratified the tortious conduct
and…training and incentivized their store employees and/or security guards…to
use unreasonably violent force in the course of scope of providing store
business and security services. 
·       
Additionally, PREMISES DEFENDANTS knew or should have
reasonably known that their store employees and/or security services, and
failed to intercede in their known pattern of using such force. 
·       
Additionally, PREMISES DEFENDANTS knew that [its security
guard] used unreasonably violent force against PLAINTIFF,…and failed to
investigate or discipline [him] for his use of force.
·       
Additionally, PREMISES DEFENDANTS knew that [its security
guard] used unreasonably violent force against PLAINTIFF…and took actions to
cover up [his] conduct by either failing to preserve or actively destroying
video recordings depicting their conduct. 
·       
DEFENDANTS committed, allowed, encouraged, tolerated, and
ratified the above-described acts and conduct deliberately, oppressively,
fraudulently and maliciously, in conscious disregard for PLAINTIFF’s rights and
safety, and with the intent to vex, injure, and annoy PLAINTIFF. As such,
DEFENDANTS have caused PLAINTIFF to suffer cruel and unjust hardship
needlessly, and DEFENDANTS’ acts and conduct warrant an award of punitive and
exemplary damages in an amount sufficient to punish and deter DEFENDANTS from ever
engaging in such conduct again in the future. 
(FAC ¶¶ 14, 16, 18, 27,
28, 35, 36, 41, 42, 47, 48, 68, 61, 69, 75).
The Court finds that
Plaintiff has not met the heightened pleading standard required for punitive
damages. To support a claim for punitive damages, Plaintiff must assert
specific facts demonstrating that Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Moreover, as Defendant
Viva Bargain Center is a corporation, Plaintiff must meet the additional
requirements of Civil Code § 3294(b). Specifically, Plaintiff must demonstrate
that the corporation had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed the individual with conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others, or that the corporation authorized, ratified the employee’s conduct.
Plaintiff's FAC includes
general allegations that the PREMISES DEFENDANTS ratified tortious conduct,
trained and incentivized their employees to use unreasonable force, and failed
to intercede in the employee’s known patterns of misconduct. However, these
allegations lack the specificity required by the law. For instance, Plaintiff
fails to identify which of Defendant's managing agents authorized or ratified
the alleged wrongful conduct, how they ratified or authorized the misconduct, or
when and who among Defendant's managing agents learned of the employee’s
similar past conduct and what specific similar past conduct occurred. 
Plaintiff has not pled
specific facts to fulfill the heightened pleading standard for his punitive
damage claims. However, based on the facts alleged, which are not completely
conclusory, there does appear to be a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. Thus, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to amend.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 