 Case Number:  BC710791    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  73 11/22/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHONNA MARIE COUNTER, et al. v. KAF INDUSTRIES,
INC., et al. (BC710791) 
 
Counsel for Cross-Defendant/moving
party:  Larissa Shadchina (Pro Per) 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs: Binh Bui (The Law Offices of Binh Bui), Michael Stoller
(Stoller Law Group, APC) 
Counsel for
Defendants:  Brian D. McMahon (Law Offices of Brian D. McMahon) 
 
PLAINTIFFS’ RENEWED MOTION FOR AWARD OF ATTORNEYS’
FEES AND COSTS (filed 9/23/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiffs’ Renewed Motion
for Award of Attorneys’ fees and costs is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 20,
2018, plaintiffs Shonna Marie Counter, Garry Michael Kann, Mark Frankel,
Douglas Fauth, Herminio Escobar, Shaina Negron, Tyler Hilliman, Samuel Saez
III, Gary Brian Bloom, Keith Milo, Ryan Cahouet, and Malik Jeter (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Kaf Industries, Inc., (“Kaf
Inc.”) and Kevin Farhang (“Farhang”).  
 
On February
10, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
against Kaf Inc. and Farhang asserting the following causes of action: 
 
1.                 
Negligence.  
2.                 
Premises liability.  
3.                 
Nuisance.  
4.                 
Negligent failure to provide habitable
premises.  
5.                 
Breach of implied warranty of
habitability.  
6.                 
Excessive collection of rent (Los
Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”) § 151.041 et 
seq.). 
7.                 
Breach of covenant of quiet
enjoyment.  
8.                 
Intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  
9.                 
Collection of rent on a substandard
dwelling (Civil Code § 1942.4). 
10.             
Failure to pay relocation
assistance.  
11.             
Respondeat superior.  
12.             
Violation of Unruh Civil Rights
Act.  
 
Before
Plaintiffs filed their SAC, defendant Farhang filed a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiffs and cross-defendants Larissa Shadchina and Cliff Brodsky, on October
28, 2019, asserting the following causes of action: 
 
1.                 
Indemnity. 
2.                 
Apportionment of fault. 
3.                 
Waste. 
4.                 
Negligence. 
5.                 
Declaratory relief. 
 
On December 13,
2023, following a jury trial, the Court entered judgment for Plaintiffs against
Defendants, specifically on the causes of action for excessive collection of
rent and failure to pay relocation assistance. Cross-Complainant Farhang prevailed
against Cross-Defendant Ryan Calhout on a cause of action for negligence.
 
On May 7, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for Attorney’s
fees.
 
A.     
Allegations in Plaintiffs’ SAC
 
The SAC
alleges the following. This action concerns properties located at 1643-16545 of
S. La Cienega Blvd., Los Angeles, California (the “Building”). (SAC, ¶ 1,
6-17.)  
 
Farhang is
the owner and manager of the Building. (SAC, ¶ 19.) Larissa Shadchina
(“Shadchina”) was Farhang’s property manager. (SAC, ¶ 3.) Shadchina used
websites such as Homeaway.com and Airbnb.com, as well as personal referrals, to
enter into sub-leases with numerous individuals. (SAC, ¶ 136.) Shadchina agreed
to pay Farhang about one half of rent moneys she received from sub-tenants
residing in the premises. (SAC, ¶ 136.)  
 
The Building
was constructed in 1958, and never intended to be a residential property. (SAC,
¶ 25.) Indeed, after Farhang took over ownership of the Building in 2006 but
before 2017, he rented out the units to many retail businesses, including an
illegal massage parlor that was raided and shut down by the police. (SAC, ¶
26.) 
 
After the
massage parlor business failed, that section of the Building was illegally
converted into 12 cramped and illegal residential units. (SAC, ¶¶ 1, 27.)
Farhang began renting what would have been massage rooms as residential
apartments. (SAC, ¶ 27.) Despite changing the property from a commercial to a
residential building, Farhang failed to obtain permits to convert the Building
to residential units. (SAC, ¶ 27.) He also failed to make the Building safe for
human occupancy. (SAC, ¶ 27.) 
 
Plaintiffs
(each of them individually) entered into a landlord-tenant relationship with
Farhang in 2017 for some, and 2018 for others. (SAC, ¶¶ 6-17.) By virtue of the
landlord-tenant relationship and oral lease agreements, Farhang owed Plaintiffs
a duty to maintain the Building in a habitable condition. (SAC, ¶ 73.) Instead,
the Building had no running water, had a defective plumbing system, did not
have adequate security, was infested with cockroaches, bed bugs, and rodents,
among other conditions. (SAC, ¶¶ 28-32.) In addition, on or about May 21, 2018,
Shadchina turned off the electricity and attempted to flee the building without
explanation, running over one of the Plaintiffs with her vehicle. (SAC, ¶ 3.)
As a result of the Building’s dilapidated conditions and pest infestations, the
Plaintiffs suffered a range of health of problems, including bed bug bites,
asthma, serious allergies, frequent colds, nausea, vomiting, headaches, and
nosebleeds. (SAC, ¶ 32.) Those that had disabilities saw their conditions
exacerbated. (SAC, ¶ 32.) Nevertheless, despite (1) those deplorable conditions
and (2) the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (“LADBS”) issuing a
Substandard Order and Notice of Fee (indicating that the Building was not
approved for residential housing and, therefore, could not collect rent from
the “tenants”), Farhang charged, and Plaintiffs paid exorbitant rents, up to
$2,000 per month. (SAC, ¶¶ 4, 34.) Therefore, Plaintiffs are bringing this
action to vindicate their rights and to redress the physical, emotional, and
economic injuries they have suffered. (SAC, ¶ 4.) 
 
B.     
Allegations in Farhang’s Cross-Complaint
 
Brodsky and
Shadchina communicated to Farhang their desire to create a short-term
“Airbnb-type” rental program in the Building, which the cross-defendants would
personally manage and oversee. (XC, ¶ 20.) Therefore, in approximately January
2017, Farhang and the cross-defendants entered into a verbal agreement to lease
a section of the Building. (Farhang’s Cross-Complaint (“XC”), ¶ 20.)  
 
The
cross-defendants represented to Farhang that they would faithfully discharge
their duty to protect and maintain the Building. (XC, ¶ 39.) Instead, as
illustrated through photographs and other documentary evidence, the
cross-defendants caused extensive damage in excess of $40,000. (XC, ¶¶ 21, 42.)
Those damages included damage to the Building’s furniture, flooring, carpeting,
and electrical components. (XC, ¶ 22.) As a result of the damages, Farhang has
been prevented from leasing the Building to interest third parties and lost
income. (XC, ¶ 23.) 
 
C.      Plaintiffs’
Instant Renewed Motion for Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs 
 
On
September 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a renewed motion for attorneys’ fees and
costs, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs move this
Court for an award of attorneys' fees and costs, in the amount of 1) 268,850 as
attorneys' fees for Binh Bui, 2) costs of $55,280.80 for Binh Bui; 3)
attorneys' fees of $244,150 for Michael Stoller
·      
On May 7, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for Attorney’s
fees as untimely. The court noted that it was filed 5 days after the expiration
of the time for filing a notice of appeal. 
·      
However, the Court erred in denying Plaintiffs’ motion for
attorney’s fees as untimely because the time prescribed by California Rules of
Court rule 8.104, to appeal from the judgment, should be extended when any
party serves and files a valid notice of intention to move, or a valid motion,
to vacate the judgment, the time to appeal from the judgment is extended for
all parties until the earliest of 30 days after the superior court clerk, or a
party serves an order denying the motion or a notice of entry of that order,
California Rules of Court, Rule 8.108. 
·      
On December 28, 2024, Shonna Marie Counter filed her Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Judgment. On February
6, 2024, the Court issued a minute order denying Shonna Marie Counter’s Motion
to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment.
·      
Therefore, Counter’s Motion To Set Aside/ Vacate Judgment extended
the time to file the motion for attorney’s fees.
·      
Thus, Plaintiff timely filed its motion for attorney’s fees,
however due to Attorney’s mistake for not arguing timely filing, the court
denied Plaintiffs’ motion.
 
Defendants
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Counter’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment did not extend Plaintiff’s time to file the motion for attorney’s
fees because Counter’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment was procedurally
defective. 
o   Rule 8.108
states that a motion for new trial (subd. (b)(1)(A)) or one to vacate a
judgment (subd. (c)(1)) must be “valid” for the rule to apply to extend time. 
o   The Advisory
Committee Comment to rule 8.108 provides guidance as to the definition of
“valid”: “Subdivisions (b)-(e) operate only when a party serves and files a
‘valid’ motion or notice of intent to move for the relief in question. As used
in these provisions, the word ‘valid’ means only that the motion or notice
complies with all procedural requirements; it does not mean that the motion or
notice must also be substantively meritorious.”
o   The 12/28/23
Motion failed to include a fundamental procedural element that rendered the
motion invalid. Therefore, it cannot be used as grounds for extending the time
for plaintiffs to move for attorney fees following a judgment.
·      
Section 473 Provides No Relief from a Invalid Motion to Vacate a
Judgment
o   Relief based
on attorney’s affidavits of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect are
limited to vacating any (1) “resulting default entered by the clerk against his
or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2)
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client Code
Civ. Proc. §473(b). By its terms, the attorney’s affidavit provisions of the
statute do not excuse an untimely filing of appeals or post-judgment fee
motions
·      
No Memorandum of Costs has ever been filed, and it is clear under
Rule of Court 3.1700 that a noticed motion is not an appropriate mechanism to
claim costs of suit.
·      
Plaintiffs also seek disallowed and/or inappropriate costs
·      
The motion seeking attorneys’ fees is untimely and should be
denied. Yet even if this motion were to be considered on its merits, there is
overwhelming instances of gouging, overbilling, false billing and duplication
of attorney’s fees. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs Filed A “Valid” Motion
o   The court
denied the motion not because of any procedural defects, but because there were
no grounds to change the judgement, therefore there is no evidence that
Plaintiffs’ motion was procedurally defective. Consequently, the time for
appeal was extended as per Rule 8.108 and Plaintiffs are entitled to have the
Fee Motion determined on the merits.
·      
Plaintiff Was Not Requesting A New Trial, But Only Requesting The
Court To Correct The Mistake In The Judgement
·      
Motion For Attorney’s Fees That Includes The Recovery of Costs Is
Appropriate
·      
Plaintiff Timely Filed Her Attorney’s Fees Motion Denied By The
Court By Mistake
o   This renewed
motion is based on Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) and (d) due to Attorney
Michael T. Stoller’s mistake of failing to inform the Court that the motion was
timely, that led to Court’s error in denying Plaintiffs’ motion for attorney’s
fees as untimely.
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal Standard for Motion for Attorneys’ Fees 
 
CCP §§ 1032 and 1033.5 provide that a prevailing party may
recover its costs as a matter of right, and that those costs may include
attorneys’ fees when authorized by statute or contract. 
 
California Municipal Code section 151. 10 provides: “Any person
who demands, accepts or retains any payment of rent in excess of the maximum
rent or maximum adjusted rent in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
or any regulations or orders promulgated hereunder, shall be liable in a civil
action to the person from whom such payment is demanded, accepted or retained
for damages of three times the amount by which the payment or payments
demanded, accepted or retained exceed the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent
which could be lawfully demanded, accepted or retained together with reasonable
attorneys' fees and costs as determined by the court."
 
“[A]bsent
circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney fee award should
ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably spent,
including those relating solely to the fee.  We explained that the purpose
behind statutory fee authorizations—i.e., encouraging attorneys to act as
private attorneys general and to vindicate important rights affecting the
public interest—will often be frustrated, sometimes nullified, if awards are
diluted or dissipated by lengthy, uncompensated proceedings to fix or defend a
rightful fee claim.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1133-34 (emphasis in original).)  “The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.... The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.” (Id. at 1134.) Other factors to consider in fixing the
reasonableness of fees to be considered beyond the fee agreement alone include,
but are not limited to “(1) the time and labor required, the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the
legal service properly; (2) the likelihood that the acceptance of the
particular employment will preclude other employment by the lawyer; (3) the fee
customarily charged in this locality for similar legal services; (4) the amount
involved and the results obtained; (5) the time limitations imposed by the
circumstances; and (6) the experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or
lawyers performing the services.” (Glendora Community Redevelopment
Agency v. Demeter (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 465, 470.)
 
B.     
Timeliness
 
As
an initial matter, Defendants argue the motion must
be denied because Plaintiffs failed to timely file their Motion for Attorneys’
fees. Plaintiffs argue that their Motion for Attorneys’ fees was timely due to:
(1) CRC 8.108, which extended the filing deadline, and (2) Plaintiffs’ counsel mistake
in filing the Motion is excused under Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 473. 
 
a.      California
Rules Of Court Rule 8.108 – Extension of Time
 
California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1702(b)(1) provides the motion for a claim of attorneys’
fees for services up to and including the rendition of judgment in the trial
court must be served and filed within the time for filing a notice of appeal
under California Rules of Court Rules 8.104 and 8.108.  The deadline is mandatory. (Community
Youth Athletic Center v. City of National City (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1385,
1444.) California Rules of Court Rule 8.104(a)(1) provides that unless
provided otherwise, a notice of appeal must be filed on or before the earliest
of “(A) 60 days after the superior court clerk serves on the party filing the
notice of appeal a document entitled “Notice of Entry” of judgment or a
filed-endorsed copy of the judgment, showing the date either was served; (B) 60
days after the party filing the notice of appeal serves or is served by a party
with a document entitled “Notice of Entry” of judgment or a filed-endorsed copy
of the judgment, showing the date either was served; or (C) 180 days after
entry of judgment.”  
 
On May 7,
2024, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ first Motion for Attorney’s fees as
untimely. The Court noted that it was filed 5 days after the expiration of the
time for filing a notice of appeal. The Clerk of the
Court served by mail on all parties the Notice of Entry of Judgment on December
13, 2023. Therefore, the motion for attorneys’ fees was required to be
filed and served 60 days after December 13, 2023, with an extra five calendar
days added for mailing of the Notice of Entry of Judgment to parties within the
State of California.  (See CCP § 1005(b).)  Thus, Plaintiffs’ motion
must have been filed and served no later than February 16, 2024.  Yet, Plaintiffs
did not file the motion with the Court until February 20, 2024. Thus, the
Court found that Plaintiffs’ Motion for Attorneys’ fees was untimely. 
 
However,
Plaintiffs filed the instant renewed motion arguing that the Plaintiffs’ Motion for Attorneys’ fees was timely. Plaintiffs
argue that since they had filed a Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment on
December 28, 2023, it extended the time for them to file their Motion for Attorneys’ fees.
 
California
Rules of Court Rule 8.108 provides situations in which the time to appeal
prescribed in Rule 8.104(a) is extended, such as when a motion for a new trial,
to vacate judgment, for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, a cross-appeal,
or a motion to reconsider an appealable order is filed. Plaintiff
argues that Rule 8.108 supports the fact that Plaintiffs’ motion for
attorney’s fees was timely because the time prescribed by California Rules of
Court, rule 8.104 to appeal from the judgment, should be extended when any
party serves and files a valid notice of intention to move, or a valid motion,
to vacate the judgment, the time to appeal from the judgment is extended for
all parties until the earliest of 30 days after the superior court clerk, or a party
serves an order denying the motion or a notice of entry of that order. (CRC
8.108.) Here, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment was denied on
February 7, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiffs argue that their Motion for Attorneys’
fees filed on February 20, 2024, was in fact timely. 
 
Plaintiffs
further assert that it was based on their counsel’s mistake and inadvertence that
Plaintiffs had not raised this argument in their reply papers in support of
their first Motion for Attorneys’ fees. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Judgment was procedurally defective and cannot be used as valid
grounds for extending the deadline for Plaintiff’s Motion
for Attorneys’ fees. Rule 8.108
states that a motion for new trial (subd. (b)(1)(A)) or one to vacate a
judgment (subd. (c)(1)) must be “valid” for the rule to apply to extend time.
The Advisory Committee Comment to rule 8.108 provides guidance as to the
definition of “valid”: “Subdivisions (b)-(e) operate only when a party serves
and files a ‘valid’ motion or notice of intent to move for the relief in
question. As used in these provisions, the word ‘valid’ means only that the
motion or notice complies with all procedural requirements; it does not mean
that the motion or notice must also be substantively meritorious.” Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment was procedurally
defective, for example, the motion did not address the required minutes of the court
and Plaintiffs did not submit trial transcripts. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 658
(requiring minutes of court to support a new trial motion under § 657, subd.
(5) related to damages).) 
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that the Court denied the motion not because of any
procedural defects, but because there were no grounds to change the judgement,
therefore there is no evidence that Plaintiffs’ motion was procedurally
defective. Thus, Plaintiffs contend the time for appeal was extended as per
Rule 8.108 and Plaintiffs are entitled to have the fee Motion determined on the
merits.
 
However, the
Court’s order denying Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment states
the following:
 
“As
Defendants point out, the motion is procedurally defective. Please do
not submit a proper request to vacate a judgment or seek a new trial.
Plaintiffs do not submit the trial transcripts. Nothing was undisputed at the
trial. In any event, there is no error or any basis to change the judgment. The
jury followed the agreed-upon jury instructions in rendering their verdicts. Plaintiffs
submitted the jury instructions. Damage are not inadequate or mistaken. There
is no basis for the court to vacate the judgment or grant a new trial. The jury
can disbelieve or not find credible a witness or a document even if not
disputed. The court did not agree to treble damages or assess statutory
penalties at a final status conference or otherwise. Nothing was reserved for
the court to adjudicate or handle. There is no supporting order or stipulation
presented. At this late date, there is no basis for the court to do so. The
jury reached the verdicts based on the instructions given and the evidence
presented at trial. The court gave Plaintiffs wide latitude to present their
case to the jury. There is no basis or reason to change anything. The jury
rendered lawful and proper verdicts. Plaintiffs do not carry any burden on this
motion. The motion is denied.”
 
(Court’s
02/07/24 Order [emphasis added].) Thus, the Court specifically states in its
order that it found Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment was
procedurally defective. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion was not valid under Rule
8.108. Since the Motion was not valid, the deadline for Plaintiffs to file
their Motion for Attorneys’ Fees was not extended and Plaintiffs’ Motion was
untimely.
 
Based
on these grounds, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ Motion for Attorneys’ Fees
was untimely. 
 
b.      Counsel’s
Filing Mistake
 
Section 473, subdivision (b) states in
pertinent part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.... Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
 
Section 473, subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of
relief.  “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has
discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against” a party or his or her attorney. Under the mandatory
relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for
which relief can be granted in the mandatory provision is broader than that in
the discretionary provision, and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the
range of adverse litigation results from which relief can be granted is
narrower. Mandatory relief only extends to vacating a default which will
result in the entry of a default judgment, a default judgment, or an entered
dismissal.”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)  ¿¿ 
 
Plaintiffs
assert that under the discretionary relief provision, the Court should grant
Plaintiffs’ counsel relief for the late filing. Plaintiffs attach a declaration
by their counsel, who states the following:
 
“On February 16, 2024, I attempted to file Plaintiffs’ motion for
attorney’s fees with OneLegal and experienced technical difficulties. I
normally do not file, but that evening none of my staff was available. On
February 17, 2024, I filed an errata, that was not accepted until February 20,
2024, making the filing “untimely” however as discussed below was indeed
timely. The late filing was caused because I was using a new temporary
assistant to revise the motion that I did not receive until couple of hours before the deadline. I believed I had reviewed the
files, making sure they were correct, however due to an error in saving the
document I filed the wrong revision of the motion. This clerical mistake caused
me to file an errata on February 20, 2024, which the court did not accept until
February 19, 2024.”
 
(Stoller
Decl., ¶ 10.) Thus,
Plaintiffs contend that Plaintiffs’ first Motion for Attorneys’ fees was filed
late due to their counsel’s mistake and
inadvertence, specifically the technical difficulties in filing the motion. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Section 473 does not allow a party’s counsel to take advantage of
an opponent when the party fails to satisfy a jurisdictional prerequisite for
filing a motion for new trial or a motion to vacate. (Advanced Building
Maintenance v. State Comp. Ins Fund (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1393-1394.)
In Advanced Building Maintenance, the court expressly held that “section
473 does not apply to extend the time for filing a motion to vacate judgment”
which is consistent with the refusal of courts to allow section 473 to be used
to get around the jurisdictional requirements for moving for a new trial. (Id.;
Hu v. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1269-1270 (“As
the court in Advanced Building Maintenance, supra, 49 Cal.App.4th 1388,
57 Cal.Rptr.2d 310, noted, ‘Relief [under section 473] may be granted from
failure to take various kinds of nonjurisdictional procedural steps.
[Citation.] Relief cannot be granted for failure to take a jurisdictional step,
such as filing of a timely notice of motion for a new trial. [Citation.]’ (Id.
at p. 1393, 57 Cal.Rptr.2d 310.)”). 
 
Plaintiffs do
not address Defendants argument in their reply nor cite any authority applying
section 473 in this context.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Section 473 provides
Plaintiffs’ counsel relief for the late filing of the
Motion for Attorneys’ fees. Thus, Plaintiffs’ first Motion seeking
attorneys’ fees was untimely.  Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Renewed Motion for Award of Attorneys’ fees and
costs is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiffs’ Renewed Motion
for Award of Attorneys’ fees and costs is DENIED.