  Case Number:  22STCV08163    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  73 11/22/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
OPPORTUNITY FINANCIAL, LLC v. CLOTHILDE
HEWLETT (22STCV08163)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Fredrick
Levin (Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Allard C. Chu (Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF, CROSS-DEFENDANT, AND
CROSS-COMPLAINANT OPPORTUNITY FINANCIAL, LLC’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION TO
COMPEL PRIVILEGE LOG DOCUMENTS (filed 08/20/24)
(2)   CROSS-DEFENDANTS CLOTHILDE HEWLETT AND THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL
PROTECTION AND INNOVATION’S MOTION TO SEAL LODGED DOCUMENTS (filed
09/04/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Opportunity Financial, LLC’s Motion to
Compel Privilege Log Documents is DENIED. 
 
Clothilde Hewlett and the Department
of Financial Protection and Innovation’s Motion to Seal Lodged Documents is
GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On March 7, 2022, Plaintiff Opportunity Financial, LLC
(“OppFi”) filed this action against Clothilde V. Hewlett in her official
capacity as Commissioner of California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation (the “Commissioner”).  
On April 8, 2022, the Commissioner filed a Cross-Complaint
against OppFi.  
On September 30, 2022, the Court overruled OppFi’s demurrer
to the Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint.  
On October 17, 2022, OppFi filed a Cross-Complaint against
the Commissioner and California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation (“DFPI”).
A.     
Allegations
in OppFi’s Complaint 
 
OppFi is
a leading financial technology platform and service provider focused on helping
middle-income, credit-challenged consumers build a better financial path.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) 
 
Specifically, OppFi’s platform allows
banks to provide access to simple short-term lending products for consumers
whom traditional lenders may otherwise turn away in light of their credit
profile. (Compl., ¶ 15.) In
this regard, OppFi plays OppFi plays a critical, federally recognized, and
approved market: enabling consumers to be shut out of traditional credit
markets to obtain access to credit. (Compl.,
¶ 15.) Moreover, access to credit is a critical asset to individuals
seeking to build a better economic future. (Compl., ¶ 15.)  
 
Lenders such as FinWise Bank (the
“Bank”), a federally-insured state-chartered bank located in Utah, have
developed loan products that provide credit to this population in light of
their high credit risk. (Compl., ¶
17.) The loan products offered by the Bank provide transparent pricing, have no
origination or late fees, are fully amortizing with no balloon payments, and
allow borrowers to prepay at any time with no penalty. (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
 
However, in light of the high credit
risk posed by this population, the interest rates charged on these loans are
often higher than traditional loans because the borrowers have no collateral to
use as security and default at a high rate. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Borrowers understand that high
interest rates are necessary in light of their credit status. (Compl., ¶ 17.)  
 
Because charging higher interest rates
is necessary to make small-dollar lending to higher-risk borrowers economically
viable, many national and state-chartered banks that engage in such lending
lawfully incorporate and locate themselves in states that do not set low
interest rate caps relative to credit risk. (Compl., ¶ 18.) These states understand that if the
legal small-dollar lending market is terminated, it will not end low-income
borrowers’ need for credit, but instead will lead to something more pernicious:
increased reliance on “payday lending” and, even worse, black-market lending by
persons and entities who operate wholly outside of the law. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
 
The Bank uses OppFi’s platform to
provide loan products to consumers throughout the United States. (Compl., ¶ 19.)  
 
This action arises from the
Commissioner of California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation’s (the “Commissioner”) threatened enforcement of the Fair Access to
Credit Act (“AB 539”) against OppFi. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) 
 
AB 539, which became effective on
January 1, 2020, amended the California Financing Law (“CFL”) to cap interest
rates to 36% for covered loans between $2,500 and $10,000 made by “financial
lenders.” (Compl., ¶
1.)  
 
The Commissioner accuses OppFi of
originating consumer loans with interest rates above those allowed by AB 539. (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
However, the loans in question
originated from the Bank, not OppFi. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) OppFi only provides the Bank with technology and other services
under a contractual arrangement (the “Program”). (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
Moreover, the interest rate caps in
the CFL should not apply to loans originated under the Program (“Program
Loans”) for the following reasons.  
 
·       
First, Program Loans are
constitutionally and statutorily exempt from California’s maximum interest rate
caps because the loans are made by the Bank, a state-chartered bank located in
Utah.  
·       
Second, OppFi does not make loans
under the Program in California. As such, it is not a “finance lender” under
the CFL with respect to its Program-related activities and, therefore, is not
subject to the interest rate caps established by AB 539 for those
activities.  
A.       Third, even
if AB 539 could arguably apply to OppFi, Section 27 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (“FDIA”), 12 U.S.C. § 1831d (hereinafter “Section 27”) preempts
the application of AB 539 to Program Loans. 
 
(Compl., ¶ 2.)  
 
The inapplicability of the CFL’s
interest rate caps to the Program is not controversial or new, but rooted in
long-existing constitutional and statutory exemptions under California law for
loans made by state-chartered banks and decades of well-settled federal law. (Compl., ¶ 3.) Federal law permits
state-chartered banks to export the interest rates allowed in their chartering
state to any other state in the country. (Compl., ¶ 3.) Federal law also preempts any efforts by state
legislatures to apply their state’s interest rate caps to loans made by
state-chartered banks in other states. Indeed, in passing AB 539, the
Legislature expressly acknowledged what is obvious: AB 539 does not apply to
“nondepositories that partner with banks,” like OppFi. (Compl., ¶ 3.) The Commissioner is well aware of these
settled principles. (Compl., ¶
4.) Indeed, before AB 539, the Bank originated Program Loans that would have
been subject to the interest caps under AB 539, but the Commissioner and her
predecessors never objected to those loans. (Compl., ¶ 4.) 
 
The Complaint asserts the following
causes of actions.  
 
1.     
Declaratory Judgment 
2.     
Injunctive Relief 
 
B.     
Allegations
in the Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint 
 
The
Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint against OppFi asserts two causes of action: 
 
1.  
Violation
of the California Financing Law 
2.  
Violation
of the California Consumer Financial Protection Law 
 
The
Commissioner alleges the following.  
 
OppFi is
not a bank, but a publicly traded company that originates consumer installment
loans called “OppLoans” through its website. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 3.) Consumers apply for a loan on OppFi’s
website, and OppFi uses an automated underwriting model where loans can be
instantly approved or denied with most funds available the next business day. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 3.) 
 
The Bank is a Utah-chartered bank that
has essentially “rented” its charter to OppFi to charge higher interest rates
to consumers through the “OppLoans” product. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 4.) State-chartered banks that
are federally insured are exempt under Section 27 from state interest rate
caps. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
4.) The State of Utah does not have
a state interest cap, making its state-chartered banks attractive to non-bank
lenders like OppFi. (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 4.) 
 
To address predatory lending (a national problem causing consumers to
become trapped in a cycle of debt due to high interest installment loans that
are difficult to pay off), approximately 45 states passed laws capping the interest rates
lenders can charge on consumer loans. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 1.)  
 
In 2019,
California passed AB 539, capping interest rates on most consumer loans at 36%.
(Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
In response, non-bank lending
companies partner with various state-chartered banks in the few remaining
states without interest rate caps to benefit from the exemption that the
state-chartered banks have under federal law from other states’ interest rate
cap laws (also known as usury laws). (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
These
“rent-a-bank” partnerships, like the one between OppFi and the Bank, are
typically structured so that a state-chartered bank (here, the Bank) in a state
without interest rate caps appears on paper to be the “lender” on high interest
loans to consumers in another state where rates are capped, while the non-bank
lending company (here, OppFi) performs the actual duties of a real lender such
as marketing, underwriting, and servicing. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶¶ 2, 5.) Although the state-chartered bank
purports to originate the exorbitant interest loan, it immediately sells the
loan to the non-bank lending company or the bulk of the receivables (meaning
the right to interest and principal payments). (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 2.) From this point forward, the
state-chartered bank has no financial stake in the performance of the loan, and
the non-bank lending company, the “true lender,” reaps the economic benefits of
the loan. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
2.) Because a state-chartered bank is the “lender” on paper, the non-bank
lending company purports to “rent” the state-chartered bank’s exemption and
charge consumers interest rates exorbitantly higher than those legally
permitted in the consumer’s state. (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 2.)  
 
In enacting a 36% interest rate cap on
consumer loans between $2,500 and $9,999, California has made a public policy
determination regarding the appropriate balance between affording consumers
fair access to credit and the protection of its most vulnerable citizens. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 7.) Far from
an effort to remove financial barriers for underserved communities, OppFi’s
predatory “rent-a-bank” ruse is an overt attempt to evade the state interest
rate cap and must be recognized as an illegal sham that has no place in
California’s innovative financial marketplace. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 5.) 
 
Through this rent-a-bank ruse, OppFi
uses the Bank as a straw lender in a gambit to circumvent interest rate limits
that the State of California deemed reasonable and necessary to curb predatory
lending abuses. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
5.) 
 
However, regardless of which entity
the loan documents proffer as the purported “lender,” OppFi is the true lender
of the OppLoans, and the loans OppFi makes are illegal in California. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 5.)  
 
Therefore, the Commissioner filed the
Cross Complaint seeking to enjoin OppFi’s unlawful predatory lending scheme,
provide restitution to exploited borrowers, and impose penalties of at least
$100 million against OppFi, and those acting in concert, for the financial harm
inflicted on at least 38,000 California borrowers. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 8.) 
 
C.     
Allegations
in OppFi’s Cross-Complaint 
 
The DFPI is an agency of the State of
California that is legally charged to execute any laws relating to finance
lenders. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 10.) 
 
OppFi’s
Cross-Complaint against the Commissioner and DFPI (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) challenges DFPI’s adoption of the so-called “true lender
doctrine” to determine the applicability of the interest rate caps under the
CFL. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
As outlined in OppFi’s Complaint, the
Commissioner threatened to enforce AB 539’s interest cap against OppFi for
loans originated by the “Bank.” (OppFi’s
XC, ¶ 3.) However, the CFL’s interest rate caps only apply to “finance
lenders,” which does not include state-chartered banks like the Bank. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 3.) Nonetheless, the
Commissioner has sued OppFi for violating those interest rate caps. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 3.) 
 
The DFPI’s underground adoption of its
“true lender doctrine” is a significant departure from Cross-Respondents’
enforcement of the CFL’s interest rate caps before AB 539. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 6.)  
 
In addition, the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”), Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq. was designed to provide
regulated entities notice of a regulation’s requirements so that they could
conform their activities accordingly and, if necessary, test the authority of
the agency to implement such a rule beforehand. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) 
 
Therefore, the true lender doctrine is
subject to the notice and comment rulemaking procedures of the APA because it
is intended to “apply generally, rather than in a specific case,” and
“implement[s], interpret[s], or make[s] specific the law enforced or
administered by” Cross-Respondents. (OppFi’s
XC, ¶ 6, citing Tidewater Marine Western, Inc. v. Bradshaw (1996)
14 Cal.4th 557, 566, 571 in a footnote.)  
 
Instead of complying with the APA,
DFPI adopted the true lender doctrine without any formal notice at all, much
less fair or adequate notice, and without complying with the APA. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) As a result,
service providers like OppFi now face an existential threat to their businesses
and significant monetary penalties based on an interpretation of the CFL
adopted by the DFPI without complying with the APA. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) They also face the challenge of
complying with a vague and amorphous test that leaves the applicability of the
CFL’s interest rate cap to the regulator's discretion. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) At base, this renders the CFL’s
exemption for state-chartered banks meaningless. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) The APA’s rulemaking procedures are
intended to prevent these unfair results. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) 
 
Therefore, because DFPI did not submit
its “true lender doctrine” to the APA’s rule-making process, it is invalid as
an “underground regulation” and cannot be enforced. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 8.)  
 
OppFi’s Cross-Complaint asserts the
following causes of action.  
 
1.  
Writ of
Mandate, Code of Civil Procedure § 1085(a) -- Violation of the California
Administrative Procedure Act, Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq.) 
2.  
Declaratory
Relief, Code Civ. Proc. § 1060; Gov’t Code § 11350—Violation of the California
Administrative Procedure Act, Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq.) 
 
D.    
OppFi’s Motion
to Compel Privilege Log Documents
 
On August 20 2024, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant OppFi filed a Motion to
Compel Privilege Log Documents, arguing:
·      
OppFi challenges DPFI’s improper, insufficient, and
unsupported claims of attorney-client privilege, attorney work product, and
common interest doctrine on their August 6, 2024 Privilege Log.
·       The DFPI has improperly attempted to withhold from production under the
guise of privilege documents embodying its rules, guidelines, and policies with
respect to enforcement of the California Financing Law and, in particular, its
adoption of the “true lender” doctrine. The DFPI has also failed to state
sufficient facts to support many of its privilege claims. And, finally, the
DFPI has claimed privilege over a series of documents disclosed to third
parties under the guise of insufficient and unsubstantiated common interest
claims.
·       The DFPI Must Produce the True Lender Policy Items
o  
The DFPI Waived Privilege Over the True
Lender Policy Items By Making Its Enforcement Policy Public
o  
The DFPI Cannot Shield the Legal
Analysis in the Non-Privileged Items Incorporated in the DFPI’s Public
Enforcement Policy
o  
Alternatively, the DFPI Must Produce the
True Lender Policy Items Because It Did Not Intend to Keep Them Confidential
o  
The APA Requires Disclosure of the True
Lender Policy Items
·       The DFPI Fails to Provide the Proper Foundation to Support Its Assertion
of the Attorney-Client Privilege and Attorney Work Product Doctrine
·       The DFPI’s Entries Asserting the Common Interest Doctrine Lack the
Foundation to Support That Assertion
 
In opposition, DFPI and Clothilde Hewlett (collectively “DFPI”), argue:
·       Cross-Defendants respectfully request that the Court deny OppFi’s Motion
in its entirety.
·       OppFi Bears the Burden of Establishing That Privilege Does Not Apply
·       The Evidence Code Does Not Provide a “Working Law” Exception, and the
Court Cannot Create Non-Statutory Exceptions
o  
Under California Law, the California
Attorney-Client Privilege is Absolute and the Courts Are Not Free to Create New
Exceptions
o  
The Policy-Balancing Exception Made in
the Federal Cases Invoked by OppFi Is Prohibited Under California Law
o  
OppFi’s federal cases, La Raza and
Brennan, are inapposite here for several additional reasons. 
§  First, they apply federal law as to the attorney-client privilege, not
California law. See Brennan at 207 (citing federal law for privilege); La Raza
at 360 (same). Second, those cases address requests under the Freedom of
Information Act, or FOIA. As stated in those cases, “FOIA strongly favors a
policy of disclosure.” Brennan at 194; La Raza at 355.
·       OppFi Fails to Meet Its Burden of Establishing Waiver
o  
OppFi Fails to Identify Disclosure of a
Significant Part of A Privileged Communication
o  
Unlike The Federal Courts, California
Does Not Have Subject Matter Waiver by “Topics”
·       OppFi’s “Sword and Shield” Analogy Has No Application Here
·       Government Code Section 11347.3 of the APA Does Not Require Disclosure of
Privileged Items
·       The Log Properly Sets Forth the Basis for Privilege and Common Interest
·       Wholesale Production of the Demanded Items is Not Appropriate
 
In reply, OppFi argues:
·      
DFPI Must Produce the True Lender
Policy Items
o  
OppFi Established that DFPI Waived
Privilege Over the True Lender Policy Items by Making Its Enforcement Policy
Public
§ 
DFPI Fails to Distinguish La Raza and
Brennan Center
§ 
OppFi Demonstrated DFPI’s Waiver of
the True Lender Policy Items
o  
OppFi Showed that DFPI Cannot Shield
the Legal Analysis in the True Lender Policy Items Incorporated in Its Public
Enforcement Policy
o  
OppFi Established that DFPI Must
Produce the True Lender Policy Items Because It Did Not Intend to Keep Them
Confidential.
o  
OppFi Established that the APA
Supports Disclosure of the True Lender Policy Items.
·      
OppFi Established that DFPI Failed to
Provide the Proper Foundation to Support Its Asserted Privileges
 
E.     
DFPI’s
Motion to Seal
 
On September 4, 2024, DFPI filed a
Motion to Seal, arguing:
·       An Overriding Interest Overcomes the Right of Public Access to the Record
o   The two documents at issue—the exam manual (Exhibit A) and the briefing
notes (Exhibit S)—pertain to internal processes of the Department as part of
carrying out its agency activities. It is well established that these types of
documents should be protected from disclosure to avoid impairing an agency’s
ability to perform its functions.
·       The Overriding Interest Supports Sealing the Record       
o   A Substantial Probability Exists That the Overriding Interest Will Be
Prejudiced If the Record Is Not Sealed
§  Publicly disclosing the examination manual would directly expose
Department methods in carrying out regulatory examinations, including exposing
it to the licensees that get examined.
§  Publicly disclosing Exhibit S, the briefing notes, would expose internal
discussion on matters of policy and enforcement. Disclosures of this type are
protected against because the overall effect is to “discourage candid
discussion with the agency and thereby undermine the agency’s ability to
perform its functions.” Times Mirror Co. at 1342. Specifically here, the
matters discussed in Exhibit S are ongoing; indeed, that is evidenced by this
lawsuit itself (and the industry-related attention it draws). The notes were
for the current Commissioner, and in anticipation of a meeting with an elected
official that also remains in their position. (Scollan Decl., ¶ 11).
o   The Proposed Sealing Is Narrowly Tailored
o   No Less Restrictive Means Exist to Achieve the Overriding Interest
 
OppFi filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The DFPI Fails to Show There Is An
Overriding Interest to Seal Either Document.
o  
The DFPI cannot rely on the analysis
in Suarez when it has already waived any official information privilege by
producing it to OppFi. (See People v. Roberts (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 271, 302 [court
erred when it quashed a subpoena based on the official information privilege in
Evidence Code section 1040 because “the information requested was no longer
confidential; the defense had learned of it.”].)
·      
The DFPI Fails To Show That the
Deliberative Process Privilege Applies to the Meeting Notes.
o  
The public also has a significant
interest in communications between its elected officials and the DFPI.
·      
The DFPI’s Claims of Prejudice Are Meritless
·       The Proposed Sealing Is Not Narrowly Tailored and Less
Restrictive Means Exist to Achieve the Alleged Overriding Interest.
 
DFPI filed a reply, arguing:
·       
The Department’s confidential
internal examination manual and the internal briefing notes prepared for the
Commissioner on regulatory matters are quintessentially protected from forced
public disclosure.
·       
OppFi argues that Cross-Defendants
will suffer no prejudice from public filing of the CFL Examination Manual
because it has already been disclosed to “a licensee”-- OppFi. But OppFi
received the manual as a litigant, not a “licensee,” received it subject to a
Protective Order, and OppFi’s receipt and use of the manual in its capacity as
a “licensee” is absolutely prohibited by the Stipulated Protective Order
·       
The Opposition repeatedly argues that
sealing is unwarranted because the two documents at issue have “already” been
produced in the litigation, but the very rule of court that OppFi is proceeding
under presumes that sealing is available for “records produced in discovery
that are subject to a …protective order;” indeed, that is the purpose of the
rule. (CRC, Rule 2.551(b)(3)(A).)
·       
OppFi does not cite a single case
that compelled a regulator to publicly disclose an examination manual.
·       
This in no way hampers OppFi because,
as it points out repeatedly, it actually has the documents, can make
(litigation) use of them, and the only restriction is that they be filed under
seal as contemplated by the Stipuated Protective Order
 
II. DISCUSSION 
 
A.      OppFi’s
Motion to Compel Privilege Log Documents
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
Where
responses to requests for production of documents have been served but the
requesting party believes that they are deficient because the statement of
compliance is incomplete, the representation of an inability to comply is
inadequate, evasive, or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit,
that party may move for an order compelling a further
response.
(CCP § 2031.310(a).)
If an objection is based on a claim of
privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the
response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to
evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege
log.  CCP §2031.240(c)(1).  The Discovery Act has codified the
concept of a privilege log as that term is used in California case law. 
CCP §2031.240(c)(2).¿ 
A privilege claimant has the initial
burden of proving the preliminary facts to show the privilege applies. (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc., (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 596.) The
purpose of a privilege log is to provide a specific factual description of
documents in aid of substantiating a claim of privilege in connection with a
request for document production.¿(Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior
Court, (“Catalina”) (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1125.) The purpose of
providing a specific factual description of documents is to permit a judicial
evaluation of the claim of privilege. (Id. at 1125.)
The court in Catalina held that
the precise information required for an adequate privilege log will vary from
case to case based on the privileges asserted and the underlying circumstances.
(Id. at 1130.)¿In general, however, a privilege log should provide the
identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each
allegedly privileged document, the document’s date, a brief description of the
document, and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether
the privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.¿(Ibid.)¿ 
Whether or not a party to the action,
a client has a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from
disclosing, a confidential communication between client and lawyer if the
privilege is claimed by the holder of the privilege, someone the holder has
authorized to claim that privilege, or the person who was the lawyer at that
time unless there is no holder of the privilege in existence.  Evidence
Code (“Evid. Code”) §954.  The holder of a privilege includes the client,
defined as a person who consults a lawyer for the purpose of retaining the
lawyer or securing legal service or advice from him in his professional
capacity.  Evid. Code §§ 951, 953. 
The right of any person to claim
lawyer-client privilege under Evid. Code section 954 is waived with respect to
a communication protected by the privilege if any holder of the privilege,
without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the communication or has
consented to disclosure made by anyone.  Evid. Code §912(a).  Consent
is manifested by failure to claim the privilege in any proceeding in which the
holder has legal standing and the opportunity to claim the privilege. 
Evid. Code §912(a).  Disclosures that are themselves privileged or are
reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer
was consulted do not waive the privilege.  Evid. Code §§
912(c)-(d).   
Failure to include an objection
expressly based upon attorney-client privilege in the initial response to
discovery results in waiver of the attorney-client privilege. (Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court, (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263, 273-274.)
b.      Discussion
 
OppFi
moves to compel the production of Privilege Log Document Nos. 7,
12, 15-18, 21, 23, 26-47, 49-54, 56-102, 104-106, 107-134, 140-147, 149-154,
156-159, and 161-170.
 
OppFi’s
demands for production of privilege log items fall into three main arguments:
(1) that DPFI must produce the True Lender Policy Items; (2) that certain log
entries are “facially deficient” in establishing a foundation for
attorney-client privilege or work product protection; and (3) that certain log
item entries do not establish a basis for asserting “common interest.”
 
                                                              
i.     
True Lender Policy Items
 
First, OppFi
moves to compel Log Items 7, 12, 15-18, 26, 104, 105,106, 131, 133, 134,
141-147, 149, 150, 152-154, 156-159 and 161, which OppFi calls the “True Lender
Policy Items.”
 
While DFPI
asserts attorney work product and attorney-client privileges as to these Log
Items, OppFi argues that DFPI waived privilege over the True Lender Policy
Items by making its enforcement public policy, specifically by adopting the
legal analysis set forth therein and publicly announcing the true lender
doctrine in enforcing the interest-rate caps in the CFL against non-banks who
provide services to out-of-state banks lending to California residents. OppFi
argues that where agencies like the DFPI incorporate and implement legal
analysis in agency documents, courts require the agencies to produce those
documents. OppFi relies on Brennan Ctr. for Just. at New York Univ. Sch. of
L. v. U.S. Dep’t of Just. (2d Cir. 2012) 697 F.3d 184 (“Brennan”)
and Nat’l Council of La Raza v. Dep’t of Just. (2d Cir. 2005) 411 F.3d
350 (“La Raza”) in support of this proposition. While DFPI argues that
both cases are inapposite as they apply federal law instead of California law
to the attorney-client privilege, OppFi also cites to Evidence Code section 912
in support. Evidence Code section 912 provides that “the right of any person to
claim a privilege . . . is waived with respect to a communication protected by
the privilege if any holder of the privilege, without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the communication or
has consented to disclosure made by anyone.” (Cal. Evid. Code, § 912.) OppFi
asserts that DFPI disclosed a “significant part” of the True Lender Policy
Items through its press releases, court filings, and interactions with the
California Legislature describing its enforcement of AB 539 using the true
lender doctrine. For example, OppFi references DFPI’s press releases about its
enforcement action against LoanMart, explaining its theory that LoanMart was
“evading” AB 539’s interest rate caps by “‘marketing’ and ‘servicing’ auto
title loans purportedly made by CCBank[.]” (Abugheida Decl. ¶ 22, Ex. Q.) After
entering into a consent order with LoanMart, the DFPI described the order
prohibiting LoanMart from making loans available through a state-chartered bank
partner as “novel.” (Id. ¶ 23, Ex. R.) OppFi also references an agenda
meeting and DPFI’s Cross-Complaint in this matter.
 
However, the
Court does not find that OppFi has shown that DFPI “disclosed a significant
part” of any communication claimed as privileged. (Evid. Code § 912(a).) “What
constitutes a significant part of the communication is a matter of judicial
interpretation[.]” (Fish v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 811,
819.) Here, the press releases, agenda meeting and Cross-Complaint do not
reference a specific document or appear to disclose a significant part of the actual contents of a privileged document. Further, the
policy balancing exceptions discussed in the federal cases cited by OppFi, Brennan
and La Raza, are not applicable under California law. OppFi fails to
identify an instance where DPFI waived its privilege.
 
The Court
also notes that OppFi’s reliance on Government Code section 11347.3 is
misplaced. Government Code section 11347.3 addresses the contents of a
rulemaking file under the Administrative Procedures Act (or APA). Government
Code section 11347.3(b)(7) requires the file to include “data and other factual
information, technical, theoretical, and empirical studies or reports, if any,
on which the agency is relying in the adoption, amendment, or repeal of a
regulation, including any economic impact assessment or standardized regulatory
impact analysis as required by Section 11346.3.” However, nothing in section
11347.3 compels disclosure of privileged items. It does not require disclosure
of any of the documents for which attorney-client privilege and work product
protections are asserted here. (POET, LLC v. State Air Res. Bd., 218
Cal.App.4th 681, 754 (2013) (“The inquiry into the disclosures required by
the APA is analyzed separately from the question whether the deliberative
process privilege applies to a particular document….the two issues are
independent of one another….”) 
 
Accordingly, OppFi
has the burden of proof on establishing a waiver or loss of confidentiality,
and it has failed to carry that burden. 
 
                                                            
ii.     
Attorney-Client Privilege, Attorney Work Product Doctrine 
 
Next, OppFi moves to compel Log Items 12, 16, 21, 23, 27-47, 49-54, 56-102, 107-131, 140, 146, 151, 156,
and 162-170, which OppFi argues DFPI failed to provide a proper foundation to
support its assertion of the attorney-client privilege and attorney work
product doctrine. 
 
The fundamental requirement for the attorney-client privilege to
apply is “a confidential communication between client and lawyer.” (Costco
Wholesale Corp. v.
Superior Ct., 47 Cal.4th
725, 732.) Work
product must include “derivative or interpretative material—material created by
or derived from an attorney’s work reflecting the attorney’s evaluation of the law or facts.” (Coito v. Superior
Ct. (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 488.)
 
Upon review
of the log, the Court finds the log entries adequately establish the basis for
attorney-client and work product. The log entries identify the counsel involved
in each claim of privilege or work product protection. DFPI included a list of
each and every counsel identified in
the log. (Abugheida Decl., Exhibit P.) Each log entry also includes a
description identifying the legal subject being addressed and indicating the
communications were made in the course of the attorney-client relationship
and/or contain work product. DFPI asserts that this is not a case
where attorneys are negotiating a business deal or providing business advice;
the descriptions reflect classic legal work. (See e.g. Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Ct., 47 Cal. 4th 725, 735 (2009).) 
 
The Court
finds DPFI has properly provided information about the logged items sufficient
to establish the privileges claimed. 
 
                                                          
iii.     
Common Interest Doctrine
 
OppFi also moves to compel Log Items 23, 30-47, 49-54, 56-101, 107-130, and 146, which OppFi calls the
“Common Interest Items.”
 
OppFi argues to
assert the common interest doctrine, “the party seeking to invoke the doctrine
must first establish that the communicated information would otherwise be
protected from disclosure by a claim of privilege.” (OXY Resources California
LLC v. Superior Ct., (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 890.) Next, “the two parties [must] have in common an interest in
securing legal advice related to the same matter” and “the communications
[must] be made to advance their shared interest in securing legal advice on
that common matter.” (Id., at 891.)
 
The Court
finds that the subset of log items that also assert “common interest” properly
identify the basis for
doing so. The subjects of the communications with other counsel at the
California Department of Justice and other state enforcement agencies show that
the attorneys have a common interest related to lawsuits and other substantive
matters. DFPI contends that here, that is the enforcement of rate caps in which
both DOJ and DFPI have enforcement capabilities, and specifically an
investigation, which the log entry descriptions show sharing of investigative
information.
 
The Court
finds that DPFI has properly provided information about the logged items
sufficient to establish the privileges claimed. 
 
Accordingly, Opportunity
Financial, LLC’s Motion to Compel Privilege Log Documents is DENIED. 
 
B.      DFPI’s Motion
to Seal
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(c).) However, a party may move to seal records
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an
order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551, the Court must expressly find
facts that establish:  
 
(1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; 
(2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
b.      Discussion
 
DFPI moves
the Court to seal the confidential materials lodged as conditionally under seal
by OppFi under California Rule of Court rule 2.551(b)(3) and the Stipulated
Protective Order (Protective Order) in this matter. DFPI asserts that two
exhibits that OppFi lodged in support of its Motion to Compel Privilege Log
Documents, (Exhibits A and S to the Abugheida Declaration in support of the
Motion to Compel), meet the requirements for sealing. 
 
DFPI argues Exhibit
A is an excerpt from the Department’s internal manual for compliance
examinations conducted by the Department under the California Financing Law
(CFL). DFPI contends that it is not an external document, is treated as
confidential, and is not made available to licensees. Making it public, and
thus available to examinees, would be prejudicial to the Department’s
examination of licensees under the CFL, one of the Department’s mandated duties
as regulator. 
 
DFPI asserts
that Exhibit B contains internal notes prepared for the Commissioner in
anticipation of potential discussion of legal and regulatory options of the
Department in carrying out enforcement, including pending litigation. DFPI
further asserts Making such notes public would impinge on the Department’s
ability to have candid internal discussions of policy and other matters in
carrying out its functions as a government agency.
 
In support,
DFPI cites to Suarez v. Office of Admin. Hearings (2004) 123 Cal. App.
4th 1191 in which the appellate court upheld the trial court’s ruling that
Department of Real Estate investigative and enforcement manuals should not be
disclosed. “If the information in the manuals, or even parts of the manuals,
was disclosed to … the public in general, it would compromise the effectiveness
of the investigations because licensees could devise methods to avoid detection
of violations of the law. Disclosure of the manuals, or any part thereof, is
against the public interest.” (Id. at 1194.)
 
In
opposition, OppFi argues the DFPI fails to show there is an overriding interest
to seal either document. OppFi asserts that DFPI cannot rely on the analysis in
Suarez when it has already waived any official information privilege by
producing the manual to OppFi. 
 
However,
OppFi provides no support for its assertion that producing documents in
discovery subject to a protective order would waive grounds to seal such
documents. Additionally, as DFPI notes in its reply, OppFi does not cite any
authority compelling public disclosure of a regulator’s examination manual. DFPI
provided a declaration that provides sufficient support for the protected
nature of the internal manual and briefing notes. Based on the foregoing, the
Court GRANTS DFPI’s motion to seal. 
 
III. DISPOSITION 
 

Opportunity
Financial, LLC’s Motion to Compel Privilege Log Documents is DENIED. 
 
Clothilde
Hewlett and the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation’s Motion to
Seal Lodged Documents is GRANTED.