


[1]
This conclusion depends on Plaintiff being able to adequately amend the duty
allegations.

Marotta (23STCV04372)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer
 
Date:                           4/19/24
Time:                          3:00
pm
Moving Party:           4045 Vineland Avenue Partners and
E&S Ring Management Corp. (collectively “Defendants”) 
Opposing Party:        Michelle Marotta (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”)
 
Defendants’ RJN
 
Defendants’ RJN is denied in full.
 
Plaintiff’s RJN
 
Plaintiff’s RJN is denied as to exhibits 1 and 2 and granted as to
exhibit 3. 
 
Demurrer
 
The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to public nuisance,
private nuisance, and negligence and negligent infliction of emotional distress
(“NIED”).
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class action. 
The complaint alleges:
 
1. Plaintiff brings
this action as a class action, on behalf of herself and all other California
residents residing on Arch Drive, in Studio City, California, similarly
situated, relating to Defendants’ public and private nuisances, and negligence,
and negligent infliction of emotional distress, in respect to Defendants and
each of their installation of mature trees that failed to take root and their
failure to adequately maintain or secure said trees on and before February 24,
2023, and from their refusal to remove a fallen tree, or to allow for the Los
Angeles Department of Water and Power (“LADWP” [or “DWP”]) or any other
government agencies, to effect repairs of downed power lines until February 27,
2023, leaving an estimated number of at least 400-500 denizens and residents of
Arch Drive to suffer and burden the harm, inconvenience, and deprivation of use
of their residences/ouster due to lack of electricity with no heat or no hot
water of any kind for more than 3 nights and four days (“BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS”),
resulting in Plaintiff and those similarly situated incurring general and
special damages and entitling them to a preliminary and permanent injunction
prohibiting Defendants and each of them from installing and failing to
adequately maintain, or refuse to timely remove fallen, trees at the rear of
their property along Arch Drive.
 
* * *
 
8. At all times
relevant Plaintiff and those similarly situated were residents of Arch Drive,
in Studio City, California, upon which the rear of the SUBJECT PROPERTY is
located on Arch Drive with an iron fence lining the street and various trees
including several mature pine trees of 10-20 feet or taller planted and
installed in and before February 24, 2023 on the SUBJECT PROPERTY. 
 
9. On February 24,
2023, a tree of approximately 20 feet in high had fallen through the SUBJECT
PROPERTY’s iron fencing and the ground therein collapsed, upon information and
belief, due to the lack of lateral support and subjacent support to the location
of the fallen tree, and due to the maturity of the tree and insufficient
rooting, destabilizing the surrounding dirt and land such that the tree fell
and knocked own at least one electricity pole and several power lines, on to
Arch Drive and the apartment building across the street, and which caused all
or substantially all of the residents and apartment buildings on Arch Drive to
be left without any power, and such that easternly entrance to Arch Drive was
completely blocked and untraversable, dangerous and hazardous. (“TREE FALL”). 
 
10. At all time
relevant, Defendants, and each of them, knew or should have known of the TREE
FALL, THE cause of the power outage, and that the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS would harm
Plaintiff and those similarly situated, but ignored the problem and refused or
failed to repair, correct, or remedy the problem or remove the fallen tree,
despite knowing and being requested by the LADWP, residents on Arch Drive and
others to remove their fallen tree and dangerous condition Defendants, and each
of them created on the public road, immediately, but they would not pay to have
their fallen tree removed at any time or otherwise provide any remedy. 
 
11. By the morning
of February 26, 2023, after Plaintiff and those similarly situated were three
nights without any power or electricity, convenient showers, hot water,
electrical stoves, televisions, chargers, and living in darkness or otherwise
ousted out of their own homes and apartments, and/or suffering intolerable
inconveniences and reduction in living conditions, Defendants OWNER and
PROPERTY MANAGERS, persisted to ignore the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS and the TREE FALL,
and still would not remove the fallen tree or otherwise provide any remedy to
allow for the LADWP to remove Defendants’ fallen tree. 
 
12. By the night of
February 26, 2023, LADWP was still unable and not given authority remove
Defendants’ fallen tree or affect repairs to the electrical lines, and
Defendants, and each of them, still refused to pay for or otherwise remove the
fallen tree on its own, so a group of residents in Studio City on Arch Drive
and good Samaritans pulled their monies and paid at least $3,000 to cut and
remove Defendants’ fallen tree and to permit LADWP to start working on
restoring power to the residents of Arch Drive, and to permit residents and
drivers to use of the road on Arch Drive. 
 
13. On February 27,
2023, after four days without power electricity and use of their homes and
apartments, LADWP was finally able to restore the electrical service and power
to Arch Drive at or about 1:30 pm that day.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 8-13.)
 
At issue here is Defendants’
demurrer.
 
DISCUSSION
 
RJNs
 
Defendants request judicial
notice of printouts from LADWP’s website (exhibits 1 through 3, 5 through 9), a
tweet from LADWP (exhibit 4), a printout from the National Weather Service
website (exhibits 10, 14), articles from newspaper websites (exhibits 11), a
report concerning urban forestry from the City of Los Angeles’s website
(exhibit 12), a printout from the Los Angeles County Public Works website
(exhibit 13), and Google maps (exhibits 15 and 16).
 
Plaintiff asks the Court to
judicially notice two Google pictures (exhibits 1 and 2) and this Court’s July
5, 2023 minute order (exhibit 3).
 
The Court denies the parties’
RJNs because the websites, maps, and pictures lack authentication and
verification.
 
Even if the Court were inclined
to grant the RJNs, it would only be proper to judicially notice the existence
of the exhibits, not the truth of their contents.
 
There is an exception.  The Court grants judicial notice of the July
5th minute order since it is a court record.
 
Duty
 
Defendants contend all three
causes of action fail for failure to allege a duty owed to Plaintiff.  Defendants claim the demurrer should be
sustained because: 
 
(1) “no court has recognized a
duty to aid a municipal utility to restore power” (Demurrer, p. 12,
capitalizing and bolding deleted; see also Reply, pp. 3-5);
 
(2) no general duty exists since
“defendants did not ‘create[] a risk’ of harm to [Plaintiff], and there is no
special relationship creating a duty” (Demurrer, p. 13, capitalizing and
bolding deleted; see also Reply, pp. 5-8); 
 
(3) “the Rowland factors
show that creating a duty would incentivize owners to cut down trees or never
plant them, which “would amount to an ‘intolerable burden on society’”
(Demurrer, pp. 14-17, capitalizing and bolding deleted, underling of case name
added; see also Reply, pp. 8-9); 
 
(4) LADWP, not Defendants, is the
entity that “owes a duty to a person injured as a result of a power outage”
(Demurrer, p. 17, capitalizing and bolding deleted; see also Reply, p. 9); and 
 
(5) Plaintiff “cannot establish a
breach or proximate cause because any purported injury is from the storm or
DWP’s failure to restore power” (Demurrer, pp. 17-18, capitalizing and bolding
deleted; see also Reply, p. 9).
 
The Court’s reading of the
complaint is that Plaintiff alleges one main duty with respect to the nuisance
claims and at least two main duties with respect to the negligence claims.  The main duty for the nuisance claims was the
duty to abate the nuisance by removing the fallen tree to make it possible to
restore power and to allow residents to enter and exit both sides of Arch
Drive.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 24-26.)  The main duties for the negligence claims
were to install (and maintain) the tree in a reasonable, safe manner pre-fall
and to remove the tree post-fall.  (See,
e.g., id. at ¶¶ 9-10, 49.)
 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on
February 28, 2023.  According to the
allegations, the alleged nuisance had just been abated a day before.  (See id. at ¶ 12 [alleging that residents and
good Samaritans paid to have the tree removed on February 26th and
that LADWP restored the power on February 27th, also allowing
residents and drivers to use Arch Drive].) 
The allegations, especially concerning duty, are vague and conclusory,
probably because Plaintiff’s counsel drafted the complaint in the heat of the
dispute. 
 
Consequently, for the nuisance
claims, the Court finds that the demurrer should be sustained with leave to
amend.  Defendants cite multiple cases
for the proposition that responsibility to repair powerlines, including
removing fallen trees and other obstructions, is LADWP’s responsibility.  (See, e.g., Reply, pp. 3-5 and n.1
[collecting cases].)  The potential
distinction, though, is that Plaintiff alleges that DWP asked Defendants to
remove the tree and that Defendants refused and prevented DWP from making
repairs.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 1,
10-12, 20(d).)  These allegations, if
true, arguably would support the recognition of a duty against Defendants, but
Plaintiff needs to add facts.  The Court
needs to see more details regarding the communications and what happened
between Defendants and DWP.[1]    
 
For the negligence claims, the
Court also finds that the demurrer should be sustained with leave to
amend.  While the pre-fall duty
allegations appear sufficiently alleged, it is appropriate to give Plaintiff a
chance to strengthen the post-fall duty allegations.
 
The Court notes that the Rowland
factors usually involve factual considerations and cannot be decided at the
demurrer stage.  This would be even more
true here if Plaintiff ends up being able to amend to show that Defendants
refused LADWP’s removal request and interfered with and delayed the repair
process. 
 
Point (5) is unavailing.  The source of the injury and the degree of
culpability – DWP versus Defendants – cannot be determined as a matter of law
at this point.
 
Superseding Cause
 
Defendants assert that LADWP’s
“failure to swiftly restore power is beyond the control of Defendants and is a
superseding cause of any purported injury.” 
(Demurrer, pp. 18-19, capitalizing and bolding deleted; see also Reply,
p. 9.)
 
The Court disagrees.  At the pleading conference, the Court did not
grant Defendants leave to demurrer on this ground, and, regardless, the
argument is contrary to the allegations. 
The complaint alleges misconduct by Defendants related to the
installation and maintenance of the tree that fell and knocked down
powerlines.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 1,
8-9, 49.)  Moreover, in contrast to
Defendants’ assertion that DWP prevented Defendants from removing the tree so
that power could be restored, the complaint alleges the opposite.  (See, e.g., id. at ¶¶ 1, 10, 20(d) [stating
that (1) Defendants “refus[ed] to . . . allow” DWP “to effect repairs of downed
power lines until February 27, 2023, (2) “despite . . . being requested by the
LADWP,” Defendants “refused or failed to . . . remove the fallen tree,” and (3)
Defendants “delay[ed] and prevent[ed] repairs of the power lines”].)  The Court cannot find that DWP’s actions
constituted a superseding cause as a matter of law given these allegations.[2]
 
Public Nuisance
 
CACI 2020 lists the elements of
public nuisance this way:
 
[Name of plaintiff] claims
that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] suffered harm because [name of defendant] created
a nuisance. To establish this claim, [name
of plaintiff] must prove all of the
following:
 
1. That [name of defendant], by
acting or failing to act, created a condition or permitted a condition to exist
that [insert one or more of the
following:]
 
[was harmful to health;]
[or]
 
[was indecent or offensive
to the senses;] [or]
 
[was an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property;] [or]
 
[unlawfully obstructed the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway;]
[or]
 
[was [a/an] [fire hazard/specify other potentially dangerous condition] to [name
of plaintiff]’s property;]
 
2. That the condition
affected a substantial number of people at the same time;
 
3. That an ordinary person
would be reasonably annoyed or disturbed by the condition;
 
4. That the seriousness of
the harm outweighs the social utility of [name
of defendant]'s conduct;
 
[5. That [name of plaintiff] did not
consent to [name of defendant]'s conduct;]
 
6. That [name of plaintiff]
suffered harm that was different from the type of harm suffered by the general
public; and
 
7. That [name of defendant]'s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing [name
of plaintiff]'s harm.
 
(CACI 2020, italicizing in
original.)
 
Turning to the
allegations, the complaint states:
 
23.
Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference paragraphs of 1 through 22,
inclusive, of this Complaint as if fully set forth. 
 
24.
The TREE FALL and BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs affected and affects, at the same time, a
considerable number of persons by (a) blocking all public access to the
easterly entrance of Arch Drive at Ventura Blvd. and (b) deprived Plaintiff’s
and members of the Class of electricity and ordinary access and/or use of their
homes or apartments or real property, and caused and causes special injury to
Plaintiff and members of the Class in that the TREE FALL and BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs
by Defendants, and each of them, refusal to timely and promptly abate the TREE
FALL or by the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, as well as blocked members of the Class from
means of ingress and egress to and from Plaintiff’s and members of the Class’
apartments, homes, and real property, including, without limit, which
constitute violations of L.A.M.C. § 56.08 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(1) and (f),
(k), and (l) [Sidewalks – Streets – Obstructions]; L.A.M.C. § 56.12 (1) and (2)
- [OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS]; L.A.M.C. § 58.02 (B) [public
nuisances, weeds, rubbish, etc]; and L.A.M.C. § 62.200 (a) [obstructions to
visibility prohibited], among other laws, ordinances, and statutes, thereby
constituting a public nuisance as defined under Civil Code §§ 3480 and 3493. 
 
25.
On or about February 24, 2023, Defendants were informed or advised and/or on
notice of the damage caused by the nuisance, and required its abatement, but
Defendants, and each of them, refused, and continue to refuse, to abate the
nuisance, as alleged herein. 
 
26.
Defendants, and each of them, have threatened to and will, unless restrained by
this court, continue to maintain the nuisance and continue the acts complained
of, and each and every act has been, and will be, without the consent, against
the will, and in violation of the rights of Plaintiff and members of the Class,
including without limit the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs. 
 
27.
As a proximate result of the nuisance, the value of Plaintiff’s and members of
the Class’ property have been diminished by the sum equal to the amount of rent
or mortgage paid without electricity or reasonable use or access to their
homes, apartments or real property. Unless the nuisance is abated, Plaintiff’s
and members of the Class’ property(ies) will be progressively further
diminished in value. 
 
28.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and members of the Class have been hurt
and injured in each of his or her health and activity, inconvenienced,
frustrated, and suffered severe emotional distress, all of which injuries have
caused, and continue to cause, plaintiff great mental, physical, and nervous
pain and suffering. As a result of such injuries, Plaintiff and members of the
Class has suffered general damages in an amount according to proof. 
 
29.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and members of the Class have incurred
economic damages in the form of expenses and costs including, without limit,
temporary relocation costs, spoiled or damages groceries, and in an amount
according to proof. 
 
30.
Unless Defendants, and each of them, are restrained by order of this Court, it
will be necessary for Plaintiff to commence many successive actions against
Defendants, and each of them, to secure compensation for damages sustained,
thus requiring a multiplicity of suits, and Plaintiff and members of the Class
will be daily threatened with damage caused by the nuisance including without
limit other trees that fall, the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs and continuation of such
conduct and inactions by Defendants, and each of them. 
 
31.
Unless defendants, and each of them, are enjoined from continuing their course
of conduct, Plaintiff and members of the Class will suffer irreparable injury
in that the reduction in usefulness and substantially diminished economic value
of the real property and Plaintiff and members of the Class, will be deprived
of the comfortable enjoyment of his/her property. 
 
32.
Plaintiff and member of the Class have no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at
law, and injunctive relief is expressly authorized by Sections 526 and 731 of
the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
33.
In maintaining the nuisance, Defendants, and each of them, are acting with full
knowledge of the consequences and damage being caused to Plaintiff and members
of the Class, and their conduct is willful, oppressive and malicious;
accordingly, Plaintiff and members of the Class are entitled to punitive
damages against Defendants, and each of them.
 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 23-33.)
 
Defendants
contend: 
 
(1) “Plaintiff
lacks standing . . . because she has not alleged a ‘different in kind’ injury”
that was “especially injurious” to her (Demurrer, pp. 19-20, capitalizing and
bolding deleted; see also Reply, p. 12); 
 
(2) “there is no
‘substantial and unreasonable interference with a public right’” (Demurrer, pp.
20-21, capitalizing and bolding deleted; see also Reply, pp. 11-12); and 
 
(3) Plaintiff
fails to allege a nuisance per se (see Demurrer, pp. 21-22; see also Reply, p.
11).
 
Points (1) and (2)
fail.  Defendants claim Plaintiff “has
not alleged that the nuisance she experienced is ‘different in kind’ from the
harm suffered by other residents.” 
(Demurrer, p. 19, emphasis added.) 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff; Defendants mischaracterize the
law.  (See Opposition, pp. 7-8.)  What Plaintiff is required to allege is that
she “suffered harm that was different from
the type of harm suffered by the general public.”  (CACI 2020, emphasis added.)  The complaint does this.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 11-13, 27-29
[alleging personal injuries, among other injuries].)  In addition, the allegations stating that
Plaintiff and the putative class members – the Arch Drive community – lost use
of their residences, had to relocate, and suffered severe emotional distress
and other personal injuries coupled with the allegations suggesting that
Defendants caused the alleged nuisance by negligently installing and
maintaining the tree and by preventing DWP from making repairs is enough to
allege a substantial and unreasonable interference.[3]
 
The Court declines to reach point
(3).  Alleging a nuisance per se is not a
necessary element, so it does not matter whether the statutes cited in the
complaint recognize the alleged nuisance as a nuisance per se.  This could be an issue for a motion to
strike, but it is not a dispositive argument for a demurrer.
 
Private Nuisance
 
CACI 2021 provides:  
 
[Name of plaintiff] claims
that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] suffered harm because [name of defendant] created
a nuisance. To establish this claim, [name
of plaintiff] must prove all of the
following:
 
1. That [name of plaintiff]
[owned/leased/occupied/controlled] the property;
 
2. That [name of defendant], by
acting or failing to act, created a condition or permitted a condition to exist
that [insert one or more of the
following:]
 
[was harmful to health;]
[or]
 
[was indecent or offensive
to the senses;] [or]
 
[was an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property;] [or]
 
[unlawfully obstructed the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway;]
[or]
 
[was [a/an] [fire hazard/specify other potentially dangerous condition] to [name
of plaintiff]’s property;]
 
3. That [[name of defendant]’s
conduct in acting or failing to act was [intentional and
unreasonable/unintentional, but negligent or reckless]/[the condition that [name of defendant] created
or permitted to exist was the result of an abnormally dangerous activity]];
 
4. That this condition
substantially interfered with [name
of plaintiff]’s use or enjoyment of
[his/her/nonbinary pronoun] land;
 
5. That an ordinary person
would reasonably be annoyed or disturbed by [name
of defendant]’s conduct;
 
[6. That [name of plaintiff] did not
consent to [name of defendant]'s conduct;]
 
7. That [name of plaintiff] was
harmed;
 
8. That [name of defendant]'s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing [name
of plaintiff]'s harm; and
 
9. That the seriousness of
the harm outweighs the public benefit of [name
of defendant]'s conduct.
 
(CACI 2021, italicizing in
original.)
 
The complaint alleges:
 
34
Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference paragraphs and all subparagraphs of
1 through 22, and 24 through 33, inclusive, of this Complaint as if fully set
forth. 
 
35.
Plaintiff’s and members of the Class’ property(ies) and the property of
Defendants, and each of them, are on the same street and share access to power
lines providing power to the buildings, apartments, and homes and residents on
Arch Drive.
 
36.
At all times herein mentioned, and since February 24 through 27, 2023,
Defendants, and each of them, have occupied, used, and maintained their
premises such that the TREE FALL was a known, or knowable risk of harm and that
the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs would interfere with Plaintiff and members of the Class’
right to access, use, and enjoy their homes, apartments, and real property and
free and open use of the public road connecting and adjoining the SUBJECT
PROPERTY as alleged herein. 
 
37.
The aforementioned occupation, use, and maintenance of the TREE FALL and
engaging in the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, by Defendants, and each of them, constitute
a nuisance within the meaning of Section 3479 of the Civil Code, in that it was
injurious to Plaintiff’s and members of the Class’ health and interferes with
the comfortable enjoyment of plaintiff’s property as alleged herein, including,
without limit, which constitute violations of L.A.M.C. § 56.08 (a), (b), (c),
(d), (e)(1) and (f), (k), and (l) [Sidewalks – Streets – Obstructions];
L.A.M.C. § 56.12 (1) and (2) - [OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS];
L.A.M.C. § 58.02 (B) [public nuisances, weeds, rubbish, etc]; and L.A.M.C. §
62.200 (a) [obstructions to visibility prohibited], among other laws, ordinances,
and statutes, thereby also constituting a private nuisance as defined under
Civil Code §§ 3479. 
 
38.
On or about February 24, 2023, Defendants and each of them became aware, were
notified and knew of the damage caused by the aforesaid nuisance(s), and
requested abatement, but Defendants, and each of them, have refused, and
continue to refuse, to abate the nuisance and threaten to continue to refuse to
abate any future tree falls or engaging in similar BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs. 
 
39.
On or about February 24, 2023, Defendants were informed or advised and/or on
notice of the damage caused by the nuisance, and required its abatement, but
Defendants, and each of them, refused, and continue to refuse, to abate the
nuisance, as alleged herein. 
 
40.
Defendants, and each of them, have threatened to and will, unless restrained by
this court, continue to maintain the nuisance and continue the acts complained
of, and each and every act has been, and will be, without the consent, against
the will, and in violation of the rights of Plaintiff and members of the Class,
including without limit the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs. 
 
41.
As a proximate result of the nuisance, the value of Plaintiff’s and members of
the Class’ property have been diminished by the sum equal to the amount of rent
or mortgage paid without electricity or reasonable use or access to their
homes, apartments or real property. Unless the nuisance is abated, Plaintiff’s
and members of the Class’ property(ies) will be progressively further
diminished in value. 
 
42.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and members of the Class have been hurt
and injured in each of his or her health and activity, inconvenienced,
frustrated, and suffered severe emotional distress, all of which injuries have
caused, and continue to cause, Plaintiff and members of the Class great mental,
physical, and nervous pain and suffering. As a result of such injuries,
Plaintiff and members of the Class have suffered general damages in an amount
according to proof. 
 
43.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and member of the Class have incurred
economic damages in the form of expenses and costs including, without limit,
temporary relocation costs, spoiled or damages groceries, and in an amount
according to proof. 
 
44.
Unless Defendants, and each of them, are restrained by order of this Court, it
will be necessary for Plaintiff and members of the Class to commence many
successive actions against Defendants, and each of them, to secure compensation
for damages sustained, thus requiring a multiplicity of suits, and Plaintiff
and members of the Class will be daily threatened with damage caused by the
nuisance including without limit other trees that fall, the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs
and continuation of such conduct and inactions by Defendants, and each of them.
 
45.
Unless Defendants, and each of them, are enjoined from continuing their course
of conduct, Plaintiff and members of the Class will suffer irreparable injury
in that the reduction in usefulness and substantially diminished economic value
of the real property(ies), and Plaintiff and members of the Class, will be
deprived of the comfortable enjoyment of his/her property. 
 
46.
Plaintiff and members of the Class have no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at
law, and injunctive relief is expressly authorized by Sections 526 and 731 of
the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
47.
In maintaining the nuisance, Defendants, and each of them, are acting with full
knowledge of the consequences and damage being caused to Plaintiff and members
of the Class, and their conduct is willful, oppressive and malicious;
accordingly, Plaintiff and member of the Class, is entitled to punitive damages
against Defendants, and each of them.
 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 34-47.)
 
Defendants
argue:
 
(1) Plaintiff
lacks standing to sue since she fails to allege “an interference with her
‘property interests’” (Demurrer, p. 22, capitalizing and bolding deleted; see
also Reply, p. 10); and
 
(2) the power
outage does not qualify as “a substantial and unreasonable interference”
(Demurrer, p. 22, capitalizing and bolding deleted; see also Reply, pp. 11-12.)
 
The Court rejects
point (1).  Plaintiff must have a
property interest to have standing.  (See
OC Water Dist. V. Sabic, LLC (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 343,
402.)  As an alleged resident of Arch
Drive during the alleged nuisance, and continuing to today, she satisfies the
requirement.  (See Complaint, ¶ 2; see
also Opposition, p. 6.)
 
Point (2) fails
for the reasons stated above.  The Court
incorporates the analysis regarding public nuisance.
 
Negligence
and NIED
 
“The elements of
any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate causation,
and damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
“‘[T]he negligent
causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of
negligence.  [Citation.]  The traditional elements of duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damages apply.’”  (Arista
v. County of Riverside (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1051, 1063.)
 
The complaint states:
 
48.
Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference paragraphs and all subparagraphs of
1 through 22, and 24 through 33, 35 through 47, inclusive, of this Complaint as
if fully set forth. 
 
49.
Defendants, and each of them, owed Plaintiff and members of the Class a duty of
care as adjoining landowners, managers, operators, of the SUBJECT PROPERTY and
in maintaining and possessing and/or controlling the SUBJECT PROPERTY and trees
and foliage thereon, and in the installation of and/or maintenance of the tree
including the one involved in the TREE FALL and other trees, in a safe and
secure manner to injury to neighbors including Plaintiff and members of the
Class, as well as to avoid the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, and to avoid acting
negligently in respect thereto; and, such that Plaintiff and members of the
Class would not suffer severe emotional distress as a result of Defendants, and
each of their, breaches of the ordinary and reasonable duty of care, including
without limit by installing mature trees that failed to take root or establish
a rooting system or to brace or support the adjoining and surrounding property
and land after installation and maintenance of the SUBJECT PROPERTY with said
trees, including without limit, the TREE FALL and/or any future or other fallen
trees, in or before February 24, 2023. 
 
50.
As an actual, legal, and proximate result of Defendants’ and each of their
negligence, Plaintiff and members of the Class have suffered damages in the
form of property damage, economic loss, serious emotional and physical injury,
legal expenses, and other damages. The exact monetary amount of Plaintiffs
damages have not been ascertained and Plaintiff and the members of the Class
pray to leave of this Court to amend this Complaint to specify the amount of
said damages when the same have been ascertained or alternatively offer said
proof at time of trial. 
 
51.
Defendants acts and omissions alleged herein were despicable, oppressive and
malicious within the meaning of Civil Code §3294 in that they were in disregard
of Plaintiff and members of the Class’ rights, health, and safety and in that
they subjected Plaintiff and members of the Class to cruel and unjust hardships
in disregard of Plaintiff and members of the Class’ rights and for the
advancement of Defendants’ own pecuniary interests. Plaintiffs are thus
entitled to an award of punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish and
make an example of Defendants.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶
48-51.)
 
Defendants assert:
 
(1) “NIED is not
an independent cause of action” (Demurrer, p. 23, capitalizing and bolding
deleted; see also Reply, pp. 9-10);
 
(2) Plaintiff
fails to allege facts showing “bystander” or “direct victim” liability
(Demurrer, p. 23; see also Reply, pp. 9-10); and 
 
(3) Plaintiff’s
claim is barred by “the economic loss rule” (Demurrer, p. 23, capitalizing and
bolding deleted; see also Reply, p. 10).
 
The Court finds points
(1) and (3) unavailing.  Plaintiff’s NIED
claim is not alleged as a standalone cause of action; it is asserted within the
negligence cause of action.  (See
Complaint, ¶¶ 48-51.)  Also, because the
complaint alleges personal injuries (emotional distress) and property damage,
the economic loss rule is inapplicable.
 
The Court declines
to rule on point (2).  The argument
amounts to a partial demurrer. 
 
 
 
 


