  Case Number:  22STCV21036    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  11 22STCV21036 (Gateway Blvd Holdings)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
 
Date:                           4/19/24
Time:                          10:00
am
Moving Party:           California State Controller’s Office
(“Controller”)
Opposing Party:        Gateway Blvd Holdings, LLC (“Gateway” or
“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Controller’s demurrer is overruled with leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
“For services performed by the recorder’s
officer, the county recorder shall charge and collect the fees” set forth in
Government Code Article 5.  [Citation.]
 
One of the Article 5 fees is the section
27388.1 fee.  Section 27388.1 provides
that, “in addition to any other recording fees specified in this code, a
fee of seventy-five dollars ($75) shall be paid at the time of recording of
every real estate instrument, paper, or notice . . . per each single
transaction per parcel of real property.” 
[Citation.]  “The fee . . . shall
not exceed two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225).”  [Citation.]
 
Gateway contends the
statutory language means the fee, which Gateways calls the SB2 Tax, must be no
more than $75 to record a single real estate document.  [Citation.] 

 
Gateway claims the
Los Angeles County Recorder overcharged, doubling the fee “from $75 to $150 for
the recordation of a single instrument titled ‘Substitution of Trustee and Full
Reconveyance.’”  [Citation.]  Gateway alleges that the overcharging
violated section 27388.1(a)(1) and that the Controller is responsible because
the recorder acted on behalf of the State and remitted the overcharge to the
Controller.  [Citation.]
 
(12/8/23 Ruling
Re: Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, p. 1.)
 
The operative complaint is the
second amended complaint (“SAC”).  It
asserts three class causes of action – refund, conversion, and injunctive
relief – and alleges the following:
 
1. As of January 1,
2018, following the passage of Senate Bill 2 – Building Homes and Jobs Act,
California Government Code section 27388.1(a)(1) required California County
Recorders to collect a $75 recording fee “at the time of recording of every
real estate instrument, paper, or notice required or permitted to be recorded,”
subject to certain exemptions, per each transaction per parcel of real
property. . . . California counties are required to remit the SB2 Taxes they
collect to the California State Controller and do not retain or benefit from
the amounts collected. 
 
2. This action
challenges the practice whereby the California State Controller collects a $150
SB2 Tax for recording a single instrument, generally called a Substitution of
Trustee and Full Reconveyance, that documents the removal of a lien on real
property. Such practice results in a $75 overcharge of the SB2 Tax in violation
of Government Code section 27388.1(a)(1). 
 
3. On July 14, 2021,
the Los Angeles County [Recorder] . . . , on behalf of the State of California
and as the State’s agent, improperly charged and collected from Plaintiff a
$150.00 SB2 Tax for the recordation of a single document titled “Substitution of
Trustee and Full Reconveyance,” wrongfully overcharging Plaintiff by $75. (See
“Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance,” attached hereto as Exhibit
“A.”) On information and belief, the Los Angeles County Recorder then remitted
the amount it collected from Plaintiff to the California State Controller. 
 
4. Due to their
unlawful conduct and practice of doubling the SB2 Tax for such documents,
Defendants State of California Office of the Controller and DOES 1 through 200
(collectively, the “Defendants” or “Respondents”) have violated and continue to
violate Government Code section 27388.1(a)(1), resulting in financial loss to
Plaintiff and a Class of persons and entities similarly overcharged, as set
forth below.
 
* * *
 
14. In 2017, the
California Legislature passed, and on September 29, 2017, Governor Brown
signed, Senate Bill 2 – Atkins, Chapter 2.5 of the Statutes of 2017, which
required that certain recordable documents be assessed an additional tax to
support the Building Homes and Jobs Act. 
 
15. This requirement
was made in accordance with the legislative amendment of California Government
Code section 27388.1, which provides that: a fee of seventy-five dollars ($75)
shall be paid at the time of recording of every real estate instrument, paper,
or notice required or permitted by law to be recorded, except those expressly
exempted from payment of recording fees, per each single transaction per parcel
of real property. Cal. Gov’t Code § 27388.1(a)(1). The Senate Committee on
Governance and Finance determined “SB 2 is a tax increase for purposes of
Section III or Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.” 
 
16. Senate Bill 2
imposed a mandate on County Recorders to charge and collect the SB2 Tax. 
 
17. Government Code
section 27388.1(b) requires County Recorders to remit collected SB2 Taxes to
the California State Controller for deposit into the Building Homes and Jobs
Trust Fund established by Health and Safety Code section 50470. 
 
18. Regardless of
its name, a single instrument that documents the removal of a lien on real
property is a single “real estate instrument, paper, or notice” under
Government Code section 27388.1 and is, therefore, only subject to a single $75
SB2 Tax. 
 
19. On or about June
22, 2021, the Federal Loan Mortgage Corporation executed an instrument prepared
by Plaintiff titled “Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance”
acknowledging that it was releasing its lien on the property in Los Angeles
County located at 11562- 11576 Gateway Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90064. 
 
20. Since the
subject property was in Los Angeles County, Plaintiff was required to record
the document with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office. 
 
21. The
“Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance” for the property at 11562-
11576 Gateway Boulevard involved a real estate transaction not exempted under
Government Code section 27388.1. Therefore, its recording was subject to an SB2
Tax. 
 
22. On or about July
14, 2021, the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office charged Plaintiff a $150 SB2
Tax for recording the “Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance” for the
property at 11562-11576 Gateway Boulevard, resulting in a $75 overcharge of the
SB2 Tax to Plaintiff in violation of Government Code section 27388.1. 
 
23. Upon information
and belief, the Los Angeles County Recorder remitted the wrongfully collected
$75 SB2 Tax from Plaintiff to the California State Controller.
 
(SAC, ¶¶ 1-4, 14-23.)
 
On December 8, 2023, the Court
heard the Controller’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.  The Court granted the motion in part and
denied it in part and granted leave to amend.
 
On January 12, 2024, Gateway
filed the SAC.
 
On March 1, 2024, the Controller
filed a demurrer.
 
The issue here is whether the
demurrer should be sustained.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Indispensable
Party
 
The
Controller contends the demurrer should be sustained because Plaintiff failed
to join an indispensable party, the Los Angeles County Recorder.  (See Demurrer, pp. 10-14.)
 
Plaintiff
claims the Los Angeles County Recorder is not an indispensable party.  (See Opposition, pp. 9-14.)  Plaintiff contends the county recorders “have
no interest in this litigation” (id. at pp. 10-11, capitalizing and bolding
deleted), complete relief can be obtained without the recorders (see id. at pp.
11-13), and, “even if the recorders are necessary parties, they are not
indispensable” (id. at p. 13, capitalizing and bolding deleted).
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 389(a) provides:
 
(a) A person who is subject to service
of process and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over
the subject matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action if
(1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already
parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and
is so situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a
practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii)
leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of
incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of
his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that
he be made a party.
 
[Citation.]
 
The Rutter Guide summarizes section 389(a) this way:
 
Plaintiff is required to join as parties to the action
any person whose interest is such that:
 
* In the person’s absence, complete
relief cannot be accorded among
those already parties to the action; or
 
* Any judgment rendered in the person’s absence might
either (a) prejudice the
person's ability to protect his or her interest in later litigation; or (b) leave any of the parties before the court
exposed to a risk of additional liability or inconsistent obligations.
 
[Citation.]
 
(12/8/23
Ruling Re: Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, pp. 3-4, emphasis in
original.)
 
Based
on these rules, the Court agrees with Plaintiff.  The Los Angeles County Recorder appeared to
be an indispensable party under the allegations of the first amended complaint
(“FAC”), but the Court granted Plaintiff leave to show otherwise:
 
This portion of the motion is granted with
leave to amend.  County recorders, not
the Controller, charge and collect the alleged overcharges.  Plaintiff alleges that this conduct is
ongoing.  [Citation.]  Since the FAC requests damages, restitution,
and injunctions, the Court doubts that complete relief could be had without the
Los Angeles County Recorder – and perhaps the other county recorders –
present.  If the Court were to grant the
injunctions as alleged, the Controller would be (1) “prohibit[ed] . . . from
directing the counties to collect” overcharges, and (2) ordered to stop
“accepting” overcharges “from the counties[.]” 
[Citation.]  Neither injunction
would necessarily prevent current and future collections by the county
recorders, and the county recorders would possess and control any overcharges
that the Controller refused to accept. In situations like that, damages and
restitution presumably would need to come from the county recorders.  Thus, Plaintiff should amend to name the Los
Angeles County Recorder or to allege facts that render the Los Angeles County
Recorder non-indispensable.  Plaintiff is
free to do the same as to the other county recorders.  
 
(Id.
at p. 7.)  The SAC seems to fix the
problem.  It removes injunction (2), guaranteeing
that purported overcharges, if collected, will be passed on to the Controller
and will not remain in the recorders’ “possession and control[.]”  (Opposition, p. 12 n.2; see also SAC, ¶
51.)  “As amended,” the Controller will
acquire possession of the alleged overcharges and will be in position to return
them via refunds.  (Opposition, p. 12
n.2.)  So, under the new allegations, the
Los Angeles County Recorder is not indispensable.
 
Admittedly,
there are benefits to be had from joining the recorders.  If they were parties, the Court could enjoin
them from collecting overcharges.  That
would be more effective than simply ordering the Controller to tell the
recorders to stop overcharging.  As
parties, the Court would be able to hold them accountable if they failed to
comply with the injunction.
 
In
light of the SAC, however, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that they are not
required to be joined.[1]
 
This
portion of the demurrer is overruled.
 
Immunity
 
The
Controller claims it is immune from liability pursuant to Government Code
section 815.  (See Demurrer, p. 14.)  The Controller contends the demurrer should
be sustained because Plaintiff fails to identify an enabling statute that
permits Plaintiff to sue the Controller for restitution, refund, and
conversion.  (See id. at pp. 14-17; see
also Reply, pp. 6-8.)
 
Plaintiff
contends the Controller’s argument amounts to an improper motion for
reconsideration.  Plaintiff asserts that
the Court rejected the argument when it denied the motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  (See Opposition, pp. 14-15.)
 
Plaintiff
also contends section 815 does not apply because the claims “sound in contract
rather than tort.”  (Id. at p. 16; see
also id. at pp. 17-18.)  
 
The
Controller’s demurrer is not a motion for reconsideration.  The FAC sought damages and restitution.  Last time, the Court rejected the
Controller’s argument because the Controller exclusively attacked the damages
portion of the causes of action, violating the “partial demurrer” rule.  (See (12/8/23 Ruling Re: Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings, p. 5.)  The situation
here is different.  The SAC only seeks
restitution, and the Controller’s demurrer addresses the issue of whether
section 815 covers restitution claims. 
It constitutes a new and different motion.
 
Nevertheless,
the Court finds that the demurrer should be overruled.  County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1034 (“Santa Clara”) includes an extensive
discussion of section 815.  (See Santa
Clara, supra, 14 Cal.5th at 1045-1056 [finding section 815
immunity inapplicable to hospitals’ quantum meruit claims for reimbursement of
costs of emergency medical services]; see also id. at 1050 [identifying
restitution as a remedy for quantum meruit].) 
In short, the decision instructs that section 815 immunity only
“shield[s] public entities from having to pay money damages for torts.”  (Id. at 1048 [stating that “the Government
Claims Act’s immunity and liability provisions are aimed at common law tort
claims for money damages”]; see also id. at 1051 [stating that the “Government
Claims Act was intended to limit government ‘exposure to liability for actual
compensatory damages in tort cases’”].) 
It does not extend to “liability based on contract or the right to
obtain relief other than money damages[.]” 
(Id. at 1048 [citing Government Code section 814], emphasis added.)  For example, immunity defenses were rejected
in cases where the plaintiffs requested reimbursement of misallocated tax
revenue, refunds of overcharges, and recovery of bid preparation costs.  (See ibid. [collecting cases]; see also id.
at 1051 [highlighting a case where the plaintiff sought reimbursement of
Medicaid payments].)  These rules
control.  Given that Plaintiff seeks
restitution, not money damages, the Controller’s immunity argument fails.[2]
 
Injunctive
Relief
 
The
Controller contends “[a]n injunction is improper when ‘there is no conduct of
the parties subject to regulation by the court.”  (Demurrer, p. 18.)  The Controller claims it “is not engaging in
conduct that the Court may ‘regulate[]’ since it “neither charges the fees in
question nor has a duty to audit or oversee county recorders’ operations.”  (Ibid.; see also Reply, pp. 3-6.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  The amended allegations
narrow the requested injunction.  As a result,
the alleged overcharges, if collected, will be transmitted to the Controller,
and the Controller will receive them.  An
audit, if ordered and performed, will be of the purported overcharges in the
Controller’s – and perhaps in the state’s – possession and control.  On balance, at the demurrer stage, this
appears to be a matter that can be the subject of an injunction, including a
mandatory injunction, under Government Code section 12410, which requires the
Controller to “audit all claims against the state[.]”  (Cal. Govt. Code § 12410 [also authorizing
the Controller to “audit the disbursement of any state money, for correctness,
legality, and for sufficient provisions of law for payment”].)  
 
At
minimum, the Court believes the face of the SAC renders an injunction available
as a matter of the Court’s inherent authority to craft remedies to ensure an
equitable outcome.  The Court likens the
first cause of action (refund) to a common count.  Immunity does not apply to the first cause of
action, and the allegations state a claim. 
The Court finds that injunctive relief is available in connection with
the first cause of action.[3]
 
To
reiterate, the SAC is distinguishable from the FAC.  In the FAC, the Court interpreted Plaintiff’s
allegations as requesting an audit and refund of fees in the recorders’
possession and control.  The statutes
cited by Plaintiff did not appear to cover that situation.  The Court sustained the demurrer with leave
to amend as to the mandamus cause of action because the FAC (1) wrongly
identified the Controller as the entity assessing and collecting the SB2 Tax, (2)
“fail[ed] to request refunds from the Controller[,]” and (3) “fail[ed] to . . .
cite authority requiring” the Controller to audit the recorders.  (4/17/23 Ruling Re: Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint, p. 3.)  The SAC, as noted
above, does not require the Controller to audit the recorders; it calls for the
Controller to audit itself, and maybe the state, and to return the alleged
overcharges.  Again, the Court believes
the SAC supports finding injunctive relief available for audit and refund
purposes.
 
This
part is overruled.
 
Leave
to Amend
 
In
an abundance of caution, the Court grants leave to amend.  The Controller’s demurrer raises difficult
issues.  Reasonable minds could differ.  Although the demurer is overruled, Plaintiff may
find it prudent to amend to add a recognized common count or other cause of
action to establish a secure link between a viable cause of action and the
requested injunctive relief.  
 
 

 


