 Case Number:  23STCV04372    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  11 Marotta (23STCV04372)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Strike
 
Date:                           4/19/24
Time:                          3:00
pm
Moving Party:           4045 Vineland Avenue Partners and
E&S Ring Management Corp. (collectively “Defendants”) 
Opposing Party:        Michelle Marotta (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”)
 
Plaintiff’s RJN is denied as to
exhibits 1 and 2 and granted as to exhibit 3.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted with leave to amend as to the class definition.  
 
The rest of the motion is denied.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class action. 
The complaint alleges:
 
1. Plaintiff brings
this action as a class action, on behalf of herself and all other California
residents residing on Arch Drive, in Studio City, California, similarly
situated, relating to Defendants’ public and private nuisances, and negligence,
and negligent infliction of emotional distress, in respect to Defendants and
each of their installation of mature trees that failed to take root and their
failure to adequately maintain or secure said trees on and before February 24,
2023, and from their refusal to remove a fallen tree, or to allow for the Los
Angeles Department of Water and Power (“LADWP” [or “DWP”]) or any other
government agencies, to effect repairs of downed power lines until February 27,
2023, leaving an estimated number of at least 400-500 denizens and residents of
Arch Drive to suffer and burden the harm, inconvenience, and deprivation of use
of their residences/ouster due to lack of electricity with no heat or no hot
water of any kind for more than 3 nights and four days (“BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS”),
resulting in Plaintiff and those similarly situated incurring general and
special damages and entitling them to a preliminary and permanent injunction
prohibiting Defendants and each of them from installing and failing to
adequately maintain, or refuse to timely remove fallen, trees at the rear of
their property along Arch Drive.
 
* * *
 
8. At all times
relevant Plaintiff and those similarly situated were residents of Arch Drive,
in Studio City, California, upon which the rear of the SUBJECT PROPERTY is
located on Arch Drive with an iron fence lining the street and various trees
including several mature pine trees of 10-20 feet or taller planted and
installed in and before February 24, 2023 on the SUBJECT PROPERTY. 
 
9. On February 24,
2023, a tree of approximately 20 feet in high had fallen through the SUBJECT
PROPERTY’s iron fencing and the ground therein collapsed, upon information and
belief, due to the lack of lateral support and subjacent support to the location
of the fallen tree, and due to the maturity of the tree and insufficient
rooting, destabilizing the surrounding dirt and land such that the tree fell
and knocked own at least one electricity pole and several power lines, on to
Arch Drive and the apartment building across the street, and which caused all
or substantially all of the residents and apartment buildings on Arch Drive to
be left without any power, and such that easternly entrance to Arch Drive was
completely blocked and untraversable, dangerous and hazardous. (“TREE FALL”). 
 
10. At all time
relevant, Defendants, and each of them, knew or should have known of the TREE
FALL, THE cause of the power outage, and that the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS would harm
Plaintiff and those similarly situated, but ignored the problem and refused or
failed to repair, correct, or remedy the problem or remove the fallen tree,
despite knowing and being requested by the LADWP, residents on Arch Drive and
others to remove their fallen tree and dangerous condition Defendants, and each
of them created on the public road, immediately, but they would not pay to have
their fallen tree removed at any time or otherwise provide any remedy. 
 
11. By the morning
of February 26, 2023, after Plaintiff and those similarly situated were three
nights without any power or electricity, convenient showers, hot water,
electrical stoves, televisions, chargers, and living in darkness or otherwise
ousted out of their own homes and apartments, and/or suffering intolerable
inconveniences and reduction in living conditions, Defendants OWNER and
PROPERTY MANAGERS, persisted to ignore the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS and the TREE FALL,
and still would not remove the fallen tree or otherwise provide any remedy to
allow for the LADWP to remove Defendants’ fallen tree. 
 
12. By the night of
February 26, 2023, LADWP was still unable and not given authority remove
Defendants’ fallen tree or affect repairs to the electrical lines, and
Defendants, and each of them, still refused to pay for or otherwise remove the
fallen tree on its own, so a group of residents in Studio City on Arch Drive
and good Samaritans pulled their monies and paid at least $3,000 to cut and
remove Defendants’ fallen tree and to permit LADWP to start working on
restoring power to the residents of Arch Drive, and to permit residents and
drivers to use of the road on Arch Drive. 
 
13. On February 27,
2023, after four days without power electricity and use of their homes and
apartments, LADWP was finally able to restore the electrical service and power
to Arch Drive at or about 1:30 pm that day.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 8-13.)
 
At issue here is Defendants’
motion to strike the class allegations.
 
DISCUSSION
 
RJN
 
Plaintiff asks the Court to
judicially notice two Google pictures (exhibits 1 and 2) and this Court’s July
5, 2023 minute order (exhibit 3).
 
The Court finds that the RJN
should be denied because the pictures lack authentication and verification.
 
Even if the Court were inclined
to grant the RJN, it would only be proper to judicially notice the existence of
the exhibits, not the truth of their contents.
 
There is an exception.  The Court grants judicial notice of the July
5th minute order since it is a court record.
 
Class Definition
 
The complaint alleges the
following class definition:
 
16. Members of
Plaintiff’s Class are defined as follows: All residents and persons residing on
Arch Drive or apartment units or homes thereon, in and between February 24
through 27, 2023 that experienced the TREE FALL and BAD NEIGHOR ACTS, and were
unable to traverse Arch Drive through the easterly entrance from Ventura Blvd.,
who satisfy the following requirements: 
 
(a) the members of
the Class include residents and persons who were denied electricity and/or
power to their home or apartment unit or building causing a deprivation of use,
access and enjoyment of their real property during the Settlement Class Period;

 
(b) the member of
the Class include residents and persons who were unable to use or traverse the
public road at the easterly entrance from Ventura Blvd., on Arch Drive during
the Settlement Class Period. 
 
(c) the claim falls
within the Settlement Class Period and are, upon information and belief, seek
under $5,000,000 in damages. 
 
The term
"Settlement Class Period" refers to the maximum amount of time
allowed to sue for public and private nuisance, strict liability, negligence
and negligent infliction of emotional distress, or other statutory violation in
the applicable jurisdiction where the class member is located. 
 
17. The Class will
not include members of the Class, as of the date of the Preliminary Approval
Order: 
 
(a) are the subject
of an assignment of rights to any third party; 
 
(b) are the subject
of a pending lawsuit against the Defendants; 
 
(c) are the subject
of a final judgment in a lawsuit against the Defendant or a release executed by
the member(s) in favor of the Defendants; and/or 
 
(d) are the subject
of an ongoing or completed proceeding in court in respect to the BAD NEIGHBOR
ACTS, TREE FALL, and block of the public road at the easterly entrance of Arch
Drive at Ventura Blvd.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 16-17.)
 
Defendants contend the definition
should be stricken because irrelevant, false, and improper references to a
settlement class and strict liability. 
(See Motion, p. 19; see also Reply, p.)
 
The Court agrees.  The parties have not settled yet; there is no
settlement class; and there is no cause of action for strict liability asserted
in the complaint.  Clearly, the proposed
definition contains errors that should be removed.  The motion to strike is granted with leave to
amend.
 
Plaintiff’s attempt to correct
the errors via a notice of errata does not change the result.  (See 7/12/23 Notice of Errata.)  An errata is not a proper vehicle for
amending a complaint.
 
Public Nuisance
 
CACI 2020 lists the elements of
public nuisance this way:
 
[Name of plaintiff] claims
that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] suffered harm because [name of defendant] created
a nuisance. To establish this claim, [name
of plaintiff] must prove all of the
following:
 
1. That [name of defendant], by
acting or failing to act, created a condition or permitted a condition to exist
that [insert one or more of the
following:]
 
[was harmful to health;]
[or]
 
[was indecent or offensive
to the senses;] [or]
 
[was an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property;] [or]
 
[unlawfully obstructed the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway;]
[or]
 
[was [a/an] [fire hazard/specify other potentially dangerous condition] to [name
of plaintiff]’s property;]
 
2. That the condition
affected a substantial number of people at the same time;
 
3. That an ordinary person
would be reasonably annoyed or disturbed by the condition;
 
4. That the seriousness of
the harm outweighs the social utility of [name
of defendant]'s conduct;
 
[5. That [name of plaintiff] did not
consent to [name of defendant]'s conduct;]
 
6. That [name of plaintiff]
suffered harm that was different from the type of harm suffered by the general
public; and
 
7. That [name of defendant]'s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing [name
of plaintiff]'s harm.
 
(CACI 2020, italicizing in
original.)
 
Turning to the
allegations, the complaint states:
 
23.
Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference paragraphs of 1 through 22,
inclusive, of this Complaint as if fully set forth. 
 
24.
The TREE FALL and BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs affected and affects, at the same time, a
considerable number of persons by (a) blocking all public access to the
easterly entrance of Arch Drive at Ventura Blvd. and (b) deprived Plaintiff’s
and members of the Class of electricity and ordinary access and/or use of their
homes or apartments or real property, and caused and causes special injury to
Plaintiff and members of the Class in that the TREE FALL and BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs
by Defendants, and each of them, refusal to timely and promptly abate the TREE
FALL or by the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, as well as blocked members of the Class from
means of ingress and egress to and from Plaintiff’s and members of the Class’
apartments, homes, and real property, including, without limit, which
constitute violations of L.A.M.C. § 56.08 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(1) and (f),
(k), and (l) [Sidewalks – Streets – Obstructions]; L.A.M.C. § 56.12 (1) and (2)
- [OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS]; L.A.M.C. § 58.02 (B) [public
nuisances, weeds, rubbish, etc]; and L.A.M.C. § 62.200 (a) [obstructions to
visibility prohibited], among other laws, ordinances, and statutes, thereby
constituting a public nuisance as defined under Civil Code §§ 3480 and 3493. 
 
25.
On or about February 24, 2023, Defendants were informed or advised and/or on
notice of the damage caused by the nuisance, and required its abatement, but
Defendants, and each of them, refused, and continue to refuse, to abate the
nuisance, as alleged herein. 
 
26.
Defendants, and each of them, have threatened to and will, unless restrained by
this court, continue to maintain the nuisance and continue the acts complained
of, and each and every act has been, and will be, without the consent, against
the will, and in violation of the rights of Plaintiff and members of the Class,
including without limit the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs. 
 
27.
As a proximate result of the nuisance, the value of Plaintiff’s and members of
the Class’ property have been diminished by the sum equal to the amount of rent
or mortgage paid without electricity or reasonable use or access to their
homes, apartments or real property. Unless the nuisance is abated, Plaintiff’s
and members of the Class’ property(ies) will be progressively further
diminished in value. 
 
28.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and members of the Class have been hurt
and injured in each of his or her health and activity, inconvenienced,
frustrated, and suffered severe emotional distress, all of which injuries have
caused, and continue to cause, plaintiff great mental, physical, and nervous
pain and suffering. As a result of such injuries, Plaintiff and members of the
Class has suffered general damages in an amount according to proof. 
 
29.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and members of the Class have incurred
economic damages in the form of expenses and costs including, without limit,
temporary relocation costs, spoiled or damages groceries, and in an amount
according to proof. 
 
30.
Unless Defendants, and each of them, are restrained by order of this Court, it
will be necessary for Plaintiff to commence many successive actions against
Defendants, and each of them, to secure compensation for damages sustained,
thus requiring a multiplicity of suits, and Plaintiff and members of the Class
will be daily threatened with damage caused by the nuisance including without
limit other trees that fall, the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs and continuation of such
conduct and inactions by Defendants, and each of them. 
 
31.
Unless defendants, and each of them, are enjoined from continuing their course
of conduct, Plaintiff and members of the Class will suffer irreparable injury
in that the reduction in usefulness and substantially diminished economic value
of the real property and Plaintiff and members of the Class, will be deprived
of the comfortable enjoyment of his/her property. 
 
32.
Plaintiff and member of the Class have no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at
law, and injunctive relief is expressly authorized by Sections 526 and 731 of
the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
33.
In maintaining the nuisance, Defendants, and each of them, are acting with full
knowledge of the consequences and damage being caused to Plaintiff and members
of the Class, and their conduct is willful, oppressive and malicious;
accordingly, Plaintiff and members of the Class are entitled to punitive
damages against Defendants, and each of them.
 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 23-33.)
 
Defendants contend “the
public-nuisance claim cannot be certified because this claim’s standing
requirement of requiring a ‘different in kind’ injury from others conflicts
with the class-action typicality requirement of mandating that [Plaintiff] has
the ‘same or similar injury’ as others in the putative class.”  (Motion, p. 9; see also id. at pp. 11-13;
Reply, pp. 3-4.)
 
The Court
disagrees.  Defendants mischaracterize
the standing requirement.  Plaintiff is
not required to allege that her harm differed from the other residents’ harm;
she is required to allege that her harm differed from the general public’s
harm. 
(See CACI 2020; see also Opposition, pp. 12-15.)  The complaint does this.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 11-13, 27-29
[alleging personal injuries, among other injuries].)  
 
Indeed, “[a] public nuisance is one which
affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood[.]”  (Civ. Code § 3480, emphasis added.)  It is possible to be typical of the community
or neighborhood – to have the same kinds of harm as them – while being atypical
of the general public.
 
This portion of the motion is
denied.  At this point, Plaintiff is
typical of the community or neighborhood. 
 
Private Nuisance
 
CACI 2021 provides:  
 
[Name of plaintiff] claims
that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] suffered harm because [name of defendant] created
a nuisance. To establish this claim, [name
of plaintiff] must prove all of the
following:
 
1. That [name of plaintiff]
[owned/leased/occupied/controlled] the property;
 
2. That [name of defendant], by
acting or failing to act, created a condition or permitted a condition to exist
that [insert one or more of the
following:]
 
[was harmful to health;]
[or]
 
[was indecent or offensive
to the senses;] [or]
 
[was an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property;] [or]
 
[unlawfully obstructed the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway;]
[or]
 
[was [a/an] [fire hazard/specify other potentially dangerous condition] to [name
of plaintiff]’s property;]
 
3. That [[name of defendant]’s
conduct in acting or failing to act was [intentional and
unreasonable/unintentional, but negligent or reckless]/[the condition that [name of defendant] created
or permitted to exist was the result of an abnormally dangerous activity]];
 
4. That this condition
substantially interfered with [name
of plaintiff]’s use or enjoyment of
[his/her/nonbinary pronoun] land;
 
5. That an ordinary person
would reasonably be annoyed or disturbed by [name
of defendant]’s conduct;
 
[6. That [name of plaintiff] did not
consent to [name of defendant]'s conduct;]
 
7. That [name of plaintiff] was
harmed;
 
8. That [name of defendant]'s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing [name
of plaintiff]'s harm; and
 
9. That the seriousness of
the harm outweighs the public benefit of [name
of defendant]'s conduct.
 
(CACI 2021, italicizing in
original.)
 
The complaint alleges:
 
34
Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference paragraphs and all subparagraphs of
1 through 22, and 24 through 33, inclusive, of this Complaint as if fully set
forth. 
 
35.
Plaintiff’s and members of the Class’ property(ies) and the property of
Defendants, and each of them, are on the same street and share access to power
lines providing power to the buildings, apartments, and homes and residents on
Arch Drive.
 
36.
At all times herein mentioned, and since February 24 through 27, 2023,
Defendants, and each of them, have occupied, used, and maintained their
premises such that the TREE FALL was a known, or knowable risk of harm and that
the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs would interfere with Plaintiff and members of the Class’
right to access, use, and enjoy their homes, apartments, and real property and
free and open use of the public road connecting and adjoining the SUBJECT
PROPERTY as alleged herein. 
 
37.
The aforementioned occupation, use, and maintenance of the TREE FALL and
engaging in the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, by Defendants, and each of them, constitute
a nuisance within the meaning of Section 3479 of the Civil Code, in that it was
injurious to Plaintiff’s and members of the Class’ health and interferes with
the comfortable enjoyment of plaintiff’s property as alleged herein, including,
without limit, which constitute violations of L.A.M.C. § 56.08 (a), (b), (c),
(d), (e)(1) and (f), (k), and (l) [Sidewalks – Streets – Obstructions];
L.A.M.C. § 56.12 (1) and (2) - [OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS];
L.A.M.C. § 58.02 (B) [public nuisances, weeds, rubbish, etc]; and L.A.M.C. §
62.200 (a) [obstructions to visibility prohibited], among other laws, ordinances,
and statutes, thereby also constituting a private nuisance as defined under
Civil Code §§ 3479. 
 
38.
On or about February 24, 2023, Defendants and each of them became aware, were
notified and knew of the damage caused by the aforesaid nuisance(s), and
requested abatement, but Defendants, and each of them, have refused, and
continue to refuse, to abate the nuisance and threaten to continue to refuse to
abate any future tree falls or engaging in similar BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs. 
 
39.
On or about February 24, 2023, Defendants were informed or advised and/or on
notice of the damage caused by the nuisance, and required its abatement, but
Defendants, and each of them, refused, and continue to refuse, to abate the
nuisance, as alleged herein. 
 
40.
Defendants, and each of them, have threatened to and will, unless restrained by
this court, continue to maintain the nuisance and continue the acts complained
of, and each and every act has been, and will be, without the consent, against
the will, and in violation of the rights of Plaintiff and members of the Class,
including without limit the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs. 
 
41.
As a proximate result of the nuisance, the value of Plaintiff’s and members of
the Class’ property have been diminished by the sum equal to the amount of rent
or mortgage paid without electricity or reasonable use or access to their
homes, apartments or real property. Unless the nuisance is abated, Plaintiff’s
and members of the Class’ property(ies) will be progressively further
diminished in value. 
 
42.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and members of the Class have been hurt
and injured in each of his or her health and activity, inconvenienced,
frustrated, and suffered severe emotional distress, all of which injuries have
caused, and continue to cause, Plaintiff and members of the Class great mental,
physical, and nervous pain and suffering. As a result of such injuries,
Plaintiff and members of the Class have suffered general damages in an amount
according to proof. 
 
43.
As a further proximate result of the nuisance created and maintained by
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff and member of the Class have incurred
economic damages in the form of expenses and costs including, without limit,
temporary relocation costs, spoiled or damages groceries, and in an amount
according to proof. 
 
44.
Unless Defendants, and each of them, are restrained by order of this Court, it
will be necessary for Plaintiff and members of the Class to commence many
successive actions against Defendants, and each of them, to secure compensation
for damages sustained, thus requiring a multiplicity of suits, and Plaintiff
and members of the Class will be daily threatened with damage caused by the
nuisance including without limit other trees that fall, the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTs
and continuation of such conduct and inactions by Defendants, and each of them.
 
45.
Unless Defendants, and each of them, are enjoined from continuing their course
of conduct, Plaintiff and members of the Class will suffer irreparable injury
in that the reduction in usefulness and substantially diminished economic value
of the real property(ies), and Plaintiff and members of the Class, will be
deprived of the comfortable enjoyment of his/her property. 
 
46.
Plaintiff and members of the Class have no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at
law, and injunctive relief is expressly authorized by Sections 526 and 731 of
the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
47.
In maintaining the nuisance, Defendants, and each of them, are acting with full
knowledge of the consequences and damage being caused to Plaintiff and members
of the Class, and their conduct is willful, oppressive and malicious;
accordingly, Plaintiff and member of the Class, is entitled to punitive damages
against Defendants, and each of them.
 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 34-47.)
 
Defendants contend
“the private-nuisance claim cannot be certified because each resident must
offer individual evidence that (1) they have a ‘property interest’ (that they
own or lease property) and (2) they suffered a substantial-and-unreasonable
interference with their property interest from both the outage and partial road
blockage.”  (Motion, p. 9; see also id.
at pp. 14-15, 17; Reply, pp. 5-7.)
 
Point (1) is
unavailing.  To be a class member, the
person must have had a property interest during the relevant time period.  (See OC Water Dist. V. Sabic, LLC
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 343, 402.) 
In other words, the person must have “owned/leased/occupied/controlled”
property on Arch Drive at that time. 
(CACI 2021.)  The complaint defines the class as “[a]ll
residents and persons residing on Arch Drive or apartment units or homes
thereon, in and between February 24 through 27, 2023 that experienced the TREE
FALL and BAD NEIGHOR ACTS, and were unable to traverse Arch Drive through the
easterly entrance from Ventura Blvd. . . .” 
(Complaint, ¶ 16.)  The allegation
suffices to distinguish class members from non-class members and renders the
class ascertainable at this stage. 
Taking the extra step requested by Defendants – to hold, as a matter of
law, that proof of class membership would be too individualized and
unmanageable to support certification – is unwarranted and not supported by the
complaint.
 
Point (2) is a
closer call, but the Court finds that it should be rejected.  The complaint alleges that all class members
were subjected to the same circumstances. 
(See, e.g., id. at ¶¶ 8-13, 16.)  As stated in the demurrer tentative ruling, coupling the
allegations indicating that Plaintiff and the putative class – the Arch Drive
community – lost use of their residences, had to relocate, and suffered severe
emotional distress and other personal injuries with the allegations stating
that Defendants caused the alleged nuisances by negligently installing and
maintaining the tree, refusing to remove it despite DWP’s request, and
preventing DWP from making repairs is enough to allege substantial and
unreasonable interferences.[1]  On balance, point (2) fails because: 
 
* the allegations raise common questions
at the pleading stage; 
 
* it is not obvious on the face of the
complaint that individual issues will predominate when it comes time to prove
the purported interferences; and
 
* whether subclasses and other management
tools can be utilized to reduce the number and manageability of individual
inquiries is a factual question.
 
This portion of the motion is denied.
 
Negligence and NIED
 
“The elements of
any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate causation,
and damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
“‘[T]he negligent
causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of
negligence.  [Citation.]  The traditional elements of duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damages apply.’”  (Arista
v. County of Riverside (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1051, 1063.)
 
The complaint states:
 
48.
Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference paragraphs and all subparagraphs of
1 through 22, and 24 through 33, 35 through 47, inclusive, of this Complaint as
if fully set forth. 
 
49.
Defendants, and each of them, owed Plaintiff and members of the Class a duty of
care as adjoining landowners, managers, operators, of the SUBJECT PROPERTY and
in maintaining and possessing and/or controlling the SUBJECT PROPERTY and trees
and foliage thereon, and in the installation of and/or maintenance of the tree
including the one involved in the TREE FALL and other trees, in a safe and
secure manner to injury to neighbors including Plaintiff and members of the
Class, as well as to avoid the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, and to avoid acting
negligently in respect thereto; and, such that Plaintiff and members of the
Class would not suffer severe emotional distress as a result of Defendants, and
each of their, breaches of the ordinary and reasonable duty of care, including
without limit by installing mature trees that failed to take root or establish
a rooting system or to brace or support the adjoining and surrounding property
and land after installation and maintenance of the SUBJECT PROPERTY with said
trees, including without limit, the TREE FALL and/or any future or other fallen
trees, in or before February 24, 2023. 
 
50.
As an actual, legal, and proximate result of Defendants’ and each of their
negligence, Plaintiff and members of the Class have suffered damages in the
form of property damage, economic loss, serious emotional and physical injury,
legal expenses, and other damages. The exact monetary amount of Plaintiffs
damages have not been ascertained and Plaintiff and the members of the Class
pray to leave of this Court to amend this Complaint to specify the amount of
said damages when the same have been ascertained or alternatively offer said
proof at time of trial. 
 
51.
Defendants acts and omissions alleged herein were despicable, oppressive and
malicious within the meaning of Civil Code §3294 in that they were in disregard
of Plaintiff and members of the Class’ rights, health, and safety and in that
they subjected Plaintiff and members of the Class to cruel and unjust hardships
in disregard of Plaintiff and members of the Class’ rights and for the
advancement of Defendants’ own pecuniary interests. Plaintiffs are thus
entitled to an award of punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish and
make an example of Defendants.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶
48-51.)
 
Defendants assert that “the negligence claim cannot be
certified because each resident needs to prove the element of damages by
showing a physical injury or property damage or the claim is barred by the
economic loss rule.”  (Motion, p. 9; see
also id. at pp. 15-16; Reply, pp. 6-7.)
 
The Court
disagrees.  On the face of the complaint,
the economic loss rule is inapplicable given that the complaint alleges
personal injuries (emotional distress) and property damage.  Moreover, “the
necessity for class members to individually establish eligibility and
damages does not mean individual fact questions predominate.” 
(Sav-On Stores, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 34 Cal.4th 319, 334, emphasis added.)  
 
It bears repeating that the complaint
sufficiently alleges common questions since all putative members allegedly were subjected to the
same road obstruction and the same power outage in the same Arch Drive
community or neighborhood.  These facts
are distinguishable, at this stage, from the facts in Defendants’ cited
cases.  (See, e.g., Newell v.
State-Farm General Ins. Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1103
[case involving denials of insurance claims arising from the Northridge
earthquake, finding that each insurer would have to prove that “his or her
individual claim was wrongfully denied, in whole or in part, and the insurer’s
action in doing so was unreasonable”]; see also, e.g., Basurco v. 21st
Century Ins. Co. (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 110 [another case
involving denials of earthquake-related insurance claims and decided at the
certification stage];  Schermer v.
Tatum (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 912, 925-926 [case involving
alleged unconscionable lease agreements and leasing practices at 18 mobilehome
parks, finding that individual issues predominated because: “(i) the alleged unconscionable
policies and/or procedures at issue in this case primarily arose out of
one-on-one interactions between different defendants (and/or their agents) and
each plaintiff and putative class member in each of the 18 mobilehome parks;
(ii) these one-on-one interactions allegedly involved improper or unlawful
conduct of defendants throughout the negotiation, execution, and enforcement of each lease agreement; (iii) the
unconscionable policies and procedures alleged in the SAC involved at
least eight different leasing practices
defendants purportedly used to “trap” plaintiffs and the putative class members
in connection with the negotiation, execution, and enforcement of each lease
agreement; and (iv) several of the eight different leasing practices allegedly used by defendants to “trap”
plaintiffs and the putative class members involved facts particular to the
individual negotiation of the lease agreement, including, by way of example
only, (a) whether plaintiffs and the putative class members were presented with
the lease agreement on a “take it or leave it basis,” (b) whether plaintiffs
and the putative class members were provided all documents related to the lease
at the time of its execution, and (c) whether plaintiffs and the putative class
members signed the lease under duress”]; Hicks v. Kaufman and Broad Home
Corp. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 908 [case involving claims for
strict liability, negligence, and breach of express and  implied warranties against developer and
general contractor to recover costs of repair to replace defective cement slabs
at housing development and decided at the certification stage].)
 
This portion of the
motion is denied.
 
Manageability
 
Defendants’
manageability argument is unavailing for now. 
(See Motion, pp. 17-18.)  The
issue should be decided at the certification stage.
 
 
 
 
 


