 Case Number:  24BBCV00180    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jairo l.
  estrada,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00180
 
Hearing
  Date:  May 31, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Jairo L. Estrada (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on January 17, 2023, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contact with
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding a 2022 Ford Explorer vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that the warranty contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to the
bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty, etc.  Plaintiff alleges that the defects and
nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves during the applicable
warranty period, including but not limited to, transmission defects and
infotainment defects, among other defects and non-conformities.  Plaintiff alleges that FMC failed to promptly
replace the vehicle or make restitution. 

Plaintiff
alleges that he delivered the vehicle to Defendant Envision Ford Lincoln of
Duarte (“Envision”) for substantial repair on at least one occasion, but Envision
failed to use ordinary care and skill to properly store, prepare, and repair
the subject vehicle.  
The complaint, filed January 22, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(D); (2) violation
of Civil Code, § 1793.2(B); (3) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(A)(3); (4)
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civil Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794,
and 1795.5); (5) negligent repair; and (6) fraudulent inducement – concealment.

B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On February 26, 2024, Defendants Ford
Motor Company (“FMC”) and Envision Ford of Duarte (“Envision”) filed a demurrer
to the complaint.  
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On April 26, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants demur to the 5th
cause of action for negligent repair and 6th cause of action for
fraudulent inducement – concealment on the grounds that the causes of action
fail to state sufficient facts and are barred by the economic loss rule. 
A.   
6th cause of action – Fraudulent Inducement
– Concealment against FMC
The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119
Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.) “As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a
concealment/suppression claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citations.]”  (Hoffman v. 162 North
Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186 [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
This
cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be
alleged with particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the
policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the
claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 6th cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that
he purchased the vehicle as manufactured with Ford’s 10-speed automatic
transmission.  (Compl., ¶62.)  He alleges that FMC committed fraud by
allowing the vehicle to be sold to him without disclosing that the vehicle and
its transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature
failure.  (Id., ¶63.)  Plaintiff alleges that prior to acquiring the
vehicle, FMC was aware of and knew the transmission installed in the vehicle
was defective, but failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶64.)  He alleges that FMC knew vehicles equipped
with the same 10-speed transmission as the subject vehicle suffered from
defects that can cause the vehicles and their transmissions to experience
hesitation and/or delayed acceleration, harsh/hard shifting, jerking,
shuddering, and/or juddering (“Transmission Defect”).  (Id., ¶65.)  Plaintiff alleges that FMC acquired its
knowledge of the Transmission Defect from sources not available to consumers
like Plaintiff, including but not limited to pre-production and post-production
testing data, early consumer complaints, aggregate warranty data, testing
conducted by FMC in response to the complaints, as well as warranty repair and
part replacement data.  (Id.,
¶66.)  He alleges that though FMC knew of
the Transmission Defect and its safety risks, FMC concealed and failed to
disclose the defective nature of the vehicle and transmission at the time of
sale and repair.  (Id., ¶67.)  Plaintiff alleges that FMC knew that the
vehicle and its transmission suffered from an inherent defect, was defective,
would fail prematurely, and was not suitable for its intended use.  (Id., ¶68.)  Plaintiff alleges FMC was under a duty to
disclose the defective nature of the subject vehicle because it acquired
knowledge of the defect, it was in a superior position to know the truth of the
facts, consumers complained about the defect since January 2018, and Plaintiff
could not have reasonably been expected to learn or discover the defect.  (Id., ¶69.)  Plaintiff alleges that by failing to disclose
the defects, FMC has knowingly and intentionally concealed facts and breached
its duty not to do so.  (Id.,
¶70.)  She alleges that the facts
concealed by FMC are material in that a reasonable person would have considered
them to be important in deciding whether to purchase the vehicle, as a
reasonable consumer would not expect the transmission to fail.  (Id., ¶¶71-72.)  
            FMC
demurs to the 6th cause of action, arguing that the complaint does
not allege fraud with the requisite specificity and fails to allege the
purported defect, and the cause of action is barred by the economic loss
rule.  
The economic loss
rule prevents the law of contract and law of tort from dissolving into
one another.  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  Economic losses consist of damages for
inadequate value, cost of repair, replacement of defective products or
consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to
other property.  (Id.)  The rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.  (Id.) 
“Tort damages have been permitted in contract cases where a
breach of duty directly causes physical injury [citation]; for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts [citation]; for
wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy [citation]; or
where the contract was fraudulently induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm. [Citation.]”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, 551–552.)
Here, Plaintiff alleges that he would not
have purchased/leased the vehicle had he known the true facts about the
Transmission Defect and that he unknowingly exposed himself to the risk of
liability, accident, and injury as a result of FMC’s fraudulent concealment of
the Transmission Defect. (Compl., ¶76.)  Plaintiff’s
injury is based on fraudulent omission and not based on an affirmative
misrepresentation, such that it is purely economic and derives from FMC’s
alleged breach of warranty.  (See Catherine
Petersen v. FCA US LLC (C.D. Cal., July 8, 2021, No.
CV 21-1386 DSF (EX)) 2021 WL 3207960, at *5; see Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc.
v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 991 [“We hold the economic loss rule does not bar
Robinson's fraud and intentional misrepresentation claims because they
were independent of Dana's breach of contract. [Citation.] Because Dana's
affirmative intentional misrepresentations of fact (i.e., the issuance
of the false certificates of conformance) are dispositive fraudulent conduct
related to the performance of the contract, we need not address the issue of
whether Dana's intentional concealment constitutes an independent tort.]
[Italics added].)  
Plaintiff has not alleged facts that
the vehicle suffered physical damages or that Plaintiff suffered from a
physical injury—the only damages alleged are the defective nature of the
vehicle.  As
currently alleged, Plaintiff has not alleged a breach of a tort duty
independent from FMC’s contractual duties under the warranties.  Plaintiff has
suffered no loss that takes this case out of the ordinary commercial venue in
which the parties specifically bargained for a commercial solution to an
economic issue. Thus, the
fraud claim is barred by the economic loss rule. 
As the fraud claim is barred by the
economic loss rule, the Court need not discuss whether the fraud cause of
action was adequately pled with specific facts. 

            The demurrer to the 6th cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend. 
B.    
5th cause of action – Negligent Repair against
Envision
The elements of a
negligence cause of action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  
First, Envision argues that the 5th
cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule and that Plaintiff has not
alleged a duty that is independent from a contract (warranty) or that Envision acted
intentionally.  Envision argues that
Plaintiff has not alleged the element of damages as he has not alleged that he
made any out-of-pocket payments for Envision’s repairs as the repairs were
covered under the warranty.   
            In the 5th cause of
action for negligent repair, Plaintiff alleges: 
57. Plaintiff delivered the Subject Vehicle to Defendant ENVISION for
substantial repair on at least one occasion.
58. Defendant ENVISION owed a duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary care
and skill in storage, preparation and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance
with industry standards.
59. Defendant ENVISION breached its duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary
care and skill by failing to properly store, prepare and repair the Subject
Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.
60. Defendant ENVISION's negligent breach of its duties owed to
Plaintiff was a proximate cause of Plaintiff's damages.
(Compl., ¶¶57-60.) 
The complaint also alleges that said defects/nonconformities
substantially impair the use, value, or safety of the vehicle.  (Id., ¶13.)  
As currently alleged, the 5th
cause of action does not allege a duty above and beyond that of bringing the
vehicle into conformity with the warranty. 
In order to overcome the economic loss rule, Plaintiff is required to
allege fact showing intentionality of the conduct and of the harm.  The allegations as currently alleged are
general and cursory.  Plaintiff fails to
allege physical property damage or personal injury, such that the damages
sought are for economic losses alone, which are limited to contract only and
not tort.  Further allegations should be
alleged to state sufficient facts for this cause of action.  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that there
is an exception to the economic loss rule for negligent repair claims where
subcomponents of a vehicle cause damage to a larger component or where the
component causes damages to the vehicle into which it has been
incorporated.  (Opp. at pp.14-15 [citing Jimenez
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, Velasco v. Ford Motor Co. (S.D.
Cal. 2022) 2022 WL 2287258 at *4 (“Multiple district
courts, including this Court, have recognized the potential applicability of
the component exception in cases involving negligent repair claims against
parties sought to be joined in breach of warranty cases against
manufacturers.”)].)  
According to the
allegations of the complaint, there was a transmission defect in Plaintiff’s
vehicle, he took the vehicle for repairs to Envision, and Envision failed to repair the vehicle.  He
alleges that the defects impaired the use, value, and safety of the
vehicle.  However, Plaintiff has not
alleged specific facts showing that Envision negligently
repaired or damaged a component part of the vehicle.  
Second, Envision argues that Plaintiff has not pled the element of damages, such as whether he
paid out-of-pocket for repairs.  Instead,
the repairs were covered by the warranty.  
The damages alleged in the 5th cause of action are not
specified.  (See Compl., ¶60.)  It is unclear what the nature of Plaintiff’s
damages are—i.e.,
out of pocket costs to repair the vehicle, damage to the vehicle while stored
at Envision’s facilities, etc.  Further
facts should be alleged to support this element.  
The demurrer to the 5th cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer to the complaint is sustained without leave to amend as to the 6th
cause of action and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 5th
cause of action. 
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED: May 31,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   