 Case Number:  22BBCV00402    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
GAYLE BUNTING, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
12517 HORTENSE, LLC, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00402
 
  Hearing Date:  May 31, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiffs Gayle Bunting, Marc
Bunting, Jack Bunting, Sandra Bunting, Paul Bunting, Nicola Bunting, and Joshua
Bunting (“Plaintiffs”) seek damages against Defendant 12517 Hortense, LLC
(“Defendant”) for failure to properly maintain, control, or repair Plaintiffs’
rented house located at 12517 Hortense St., Studio City, CA 91604.  Plaintiffs allege that they entered into a
rental agreement for their stay at the subject property on or about July 14,
2023 through July 31, 2023 as a guest at Defendant’s AirBnB property.  Plaintiffs allege that there was a bed bug
infestation in the house, making the house uninhabitable.  
             The complaint, filed February 15, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of the implied warranty of
habitability; (2) negligence – premises liability/failure to warn/negligence
per se; (3) nuisance; (4) IIED; (5) breach of contract; (6) breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) fraudulent concealment; and (8) elder
abuse/neglect.   
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On April 18, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration against Plaintiffs and their complaint.  Defendant seeks a stay of the action pending
the arbitration.  
On May 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to the motion. 
On May 23, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves to compel arbitration against Plaintiffs.  
A.   
Terms of the Arbitration Agreement
Defendant provides
the declaration of Chris Bruno, the Operations Manager for Million Dollar Luxe
LLC (“MDL”), which provides property management services and was the authorized
agent for owner/Defendant.  (Bruno Decl.,
¶¶3-5.)  With respect to the subject
rental, Mr. Bruno states that Plaintiff Marc Bunting primarily dealt with him
regarding the Short Term Rental Agreement. 
(Id., ¶6.) 
The
Short Term Rental Agreement states at paragraph 33: 
33. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be deemed to have been
executed and delivered within the State of California, and the rights and
obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of California without
regard to its conflicts of laws principles, and irrespective of the fact that
one or more Parties hereto now, or may hereafter be, a resident of a different
state or country. All Parties expressly consent All claims and disputes arising
under or relating to this Agreement are to be settled by binding arbitration in
the state of California or another location mutually agreeable to the parties.
The arbitration shall be conducted on a confidential basis pursuant to the
Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Any
decision or award as a result of any such arbitration proceeding shall be in
writing and shall provide an explanation for all conclusions of law and fact
and shall include the assessment of costs, expenses, and reasonable attorneys'
fees. Any such arbitration shall be conducted by an arbitrator experienced in
real estate and shall include a written record of the arbitration hearing. The
parties reserve the right to object to any individual who shall be employed by
or affiliated with a competing organization or entity. An award of arbitration
may be confirmed in a court of competent jurisdiction.
 
34. Forum/Jurisdiction. If any action is necessary to enforce this
Agreement, or any provision of this Agreement, the action shall be exclusively
initiated, regardless of the Party initiating the action, in the California
Superior Court in and for the County of Los Angeles, which Court shall be the
sole and exclusive venue for any suits arising under this Agreement.
(Bruno Decl., Ex. A [Rental Agreement, ¶¶33-34].)  The Rental Agreement provided by Mr. Bruno is
not signed and dated by MDL or by Guest Marc Bunting.  (Rental Agreement at p.15.)  At most, Mr. Bruno states that he informed
Marc Bunting during a phone conversation that all family members staying at the
property would be subject to and bound by the Rental Agreement, to which Marc
Bunting agreed; thus, Mr. Bruno states that all Plaintiffs are bound by the
arbitration provision in the Rental Agreement. 
(Bruno Decl., ¶11.)  Mr. Bruno
provides documentary evidence showing that Marc Bunting made a deposit for the
rental and paid the entirety of the booking payment.  (Id., Exs. B-E.)    
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has not established that there is
an agreement to arbitrate between the parties. 
Plaintiffs argue that the Rental Agreement provided by Defendant does
not include any signatures by Plaintiffs or even by Defendant.  They argue that Mr. Bruno only states that he
conversed about the Rental Agreement generally, but did not inform Plaintiffs
that they would be bound by the arbitration agreement nor does Mr. Bruno know
which Plaintiffs were aware of the arbitration provision.  Thus, Plaintiffs argue that they never agreed
to arbitration and by Defendant’s failure to obtain their signatures on the
Rental Agreement, Defendant waived its right to arbitrate.  
            In
reply, Defendant argues that even if Plaintiffs are nonsignatories to the
Rental Agreement, they are suing for breach of contract.  The complaint alleges that Defendant and
Plaintiffs entered into a valid rental agreement.  (Compl., ¶116.)  The general allegations allege that
Plaintiffs entered into a rental agreement with Defendant on July 14, 2023 and
that Defendant breached the Rental Agreement by failing to maintain the
premises in a habitable condition.  (Id.,
¶¶32, 43.)  The 1st cause of
action for statutory violation of habitability alleges that Plaintiffs entered
into a rental agreement with Defendant to stay as guests at the subject
property and Plaintiffs were third-party beneficiaries of the Rental Agreement.  (Id., ¶58.)  The 6th cause of action for breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment also alleges that implied in the Rental
Agreement was a covenant that Defendant would not interfere with Plaintiffs’
quiet enjoyment of the premises.  (Id.,
¶127.)  “When a
plaintiff brings a claim which relies on contract terms against a
defendant, the plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement. [Citations.] 
There is no apparent reason
why this doctrine of estoppel should not be equally applicable to a
nonsignatory plaintiff. When that plaintiff is suing on a contract—on the basis
that, even though the plaintiff was not a party to the contract, the plaintiff
is nonetheless entitled to recover for its breach, the plaintiff should be
equitably estopped from repudiating the contract's arbitration clause.”  (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior
Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1239–1240.)  While none of the parties signed the Rental
Agreement, Plaintiffs still obtained the benefit of the agreement—a short term
rental of a property in exchange for payment. 
In addition, each of the Plaintiffs are suing Defendant for breach of
contract based on a “valid rental agreement.” 
(Compl., ¶116.)  Thus, it appears
that Plaintiffs may be estopped from relying on the written agreement without
the arbitration clause. 
            Both
the FAA and the California Code of Civil Procedure make reference to a written
agreement. However, neither party cites to cases that are on point with the
particular situation at hand—where the parties had a written agreement but both
failed to sign the agreement.  In the
event that no specific cases are brought to the Court’s attention, the Court
will allow supplemental briefing on this limited issue regarding the
enforcement (or lack thereof) of an arbitration agreement that has no
signatories to the agreement.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
to compel arbitration is continued to June 28, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are ordered to file supplemental
briefing not to exceed 5 pages as follows: (a) Defendant shall file and serve
(by electronic mail) a supplemental brief by the end of the business day of June
11, 2024; and (b) Plaintiffs are to file and serve (by electronic mail) a
responsive brief by the end of the business day of June 21, 2024.  The supplemental briefs shall be limited to
the issue where the parties had a written agreement but both failed to sign the
agreement that contained the arbitration clause. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
May 31, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 