 Case Number:  23BBCV01735    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
sargon
  restoration, inc., et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
morrison
  studios, ltd. lp, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01735
 
  Hearing Date:  May 31, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
petition to remove mechanic’s lien; and Demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Sargon Restoration, Inc. (“Restoration”),
Environmental Abatement, Inc. (“Abatement”), and L.Y. Environmental, Inc.
(“L.Y.”) allege that they each entered into an agreement with Defendant
Morrison Studios, Ltd. L.P. (“Defendant”) by which Plaintiffs each agreed to
furnish certain labor, services, equipment, and materials for a work of
improvement at the property located at 5001 Lankershim Boulevard, North Hollywood,
CA 91601.  Plaintiffs allege that they
performed all conditions and obligations required, but Defendants breached their
contractual obligations by failing and refusing to compensate each of the
Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege that the
“reasonable value and market price of said labor, services, equipment, and
materials when provided and at all relevant times herein mentioned and now is
as follows: (1) the sum of $378,950.05 to Restoration for fire and water restoration;
(2) the sum of $16,000.00 to Abatement for construction and fire/water
restoration; and (3) the sum of $6,375.00 to L.Y. for environmental testing.”  (Compl., ¶8.) 

The complaint, filed July 31, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract (Restoration); (2) breach
of contract (Abatement); (3) breach of contract (L.Y.); (4) foreclosure of mechanic’s
lien (Restoration); (5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien (Abatement); (6)
foreclosure of mechanic’s lien (L.Y.); (7) Quantum Meruit (Restoration); (8)
Quantum Meruit (Abatement); and (9) Quantum Meruit (L.Y.).  
B.    
Motions on Calendar
On April 30, 2024, Defendant filed a
petition for removal of the mechanic’s lien on the property located at 5001
Lankershim Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601. 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief.  On May 16, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
On April 30, 2024, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the complaint.  The Court is
not in receipt of an opposition brief.  On May 22, 2024, Plaintiffs electronically
lodged a first amended complaint (“FAC”). 

DISCUSSION
RE PETITION TO REMOVE MECHANIC’S LIEN
A.   
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests judicial notice of
Exhibits A-C, which include certified copies of the mechanics’ liens; and
Exhibit F, which includes a copy of the complaint.  The request is granted. (Evid. Code, §
452(d), (h).)  
B.    
Legal Standard
The purpose of a mechanics lien is to
prevent private property owners from obtaining a benefit to their property
without paying the cost for it.  (Cal Sierra Construction, Inc. v. Comerica
Bank (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 841, 848.) 
The California Constitution directs the Legislature to provide for the
speedy and efficient enforcement of mechanics liens in Article XIV, section
3.  The mechanics lien system is the only
creditors’ remedy stemming from a constitutional mandate.  (Connolly
Development, Inc. v. Superior Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 803, 810.)  The Legislature enacted the current statutory
scheme for mechanics liens at Civil Code §§ 8000 to 9566 and it has been
operative since July 1, 2012.  
Civil Code § 8460
provides: 
(a)
The claimant shall commence an action to enforce a lien within 90 days after
recordation of the claim of lien. If the claimant does not commence an action
to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and is
unenforceable.
(b)
Subdivision (a) does not apply if the claimant and owner agree to extend
credit, and notice of the fact and terms of the extension of credit is recorded
(1) within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien or (2) more than 90
days after recordation of the claim of lien but before a purchaser or
encumbrancer for value and in good faith acquires rights in the property. In
that event the claimant shall commence an action to enforce the lien within 90
days after the expiration of the credit, but in no case later than one year
after completion of the work of improvement. If the claimant does not commence
an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and
is unenforceable.
(Civ. Code, § 8460.)  “The owner of property or the owner of any
interest in property subject to a claim of lien may petition the
court for an order to release the property from the claim of lien if the
claimant has not commenced an action to enforce the lien within the time
provided in Section 8460.”  (Civ.
Code, § 8480(a).) 
Civil Code § 8484
identifies the requirements for the petition for a release order, which include
the following:
 (a) The date of recordation of the claim of
lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of lien
is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number of
the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the property
subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the claimant
notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and record a
release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do so or
cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the lien
is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property or
interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is another
restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to enforce the
lien.
(Civ. Code, § 8484.) 

Sections 8486 and 8488 identify the
procedures for setting the hearing and the burdens of proof at the
hearing.  The petitioner has the initial
burden of producing evidence on those matters. 
The petitioner has the burden of proof as to the issue of compliance
with the service and date for hearing requirements of this article.  The claimant has the burden of proof as to
the validity of the lien.
Under section 8486(b), the petitioner
shall serve a copy of the petition and a notice of hearing on the Respondent at
least 15 days before the hearing. 
Section 8486(b) requires service to be made in the same manner as
service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in Section 8108.  
C.    
Discussion of Merits 
Defendant requests that the mechanic’s
lien be released on the basis that Plaintiffs failed to file the lien
foreclosure action within 90 days permitted by law.  
According to the judicially noticeable
document, the three mechanic’s liens were recorded on April 28, 2023.  (Def.’s RJN, Exs. A-C.)  Ninety days from April 28, 2023 falls on July
27, 2023, which was the deadline for Plaintiffs to file their complaint.  The complaint was filed on July 31, 2023,
which is 4 days late.  (Def.’s RJN, Ex.
F.)  Based on the timeline of events,
there is substantive merit to grant Defendant’s petition pursuant to Civil
Code, § 8460.  
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they
made a good faith mistake of fact arising from a calendar error based on
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s legal assistant and that the Court should grant relief
pursuant to CCP § 473(b) and exercise equitable tolling based on this honest,
trivial mistake.  Plaintiff’s counsel
Joseph Kerendian states that his legal assistant has never handled a mechanic’s
lien case before and did not understand the imperative nature of the 90-day
deadline to file suit following recordation of the lien on the property.  (Kerendian Decl., ¶2.)  Mr. Kerendian states that his legal assistant
entered the date 3 months out according to the date of the recordation of the
lien, as opposed to exactly 90 days.  (Id.)  He states that he is a busy solo attorney and
bases his work on what is put into his calendar by his assistants.  (Id.) 
Mr. Kerendian states that he filed the complaint on July 28, 2023, but
the complaint was rejected for clerical errors, which he corrected by July 31,
2023.  (Id., ¶2, Ex. A.)  According to the Notice of Court Rejection of
Electronic Filing, the complaint was received on July 28, 2023, but the notice
was generated on July 31, 2023 at 10:31 a.m. 
Although Plaintiffs rely on CCP § 473(b)
for their opposition arguments, they did not file a noticed motion for relief
from an order pursuant to section 473 nor is there a reservation pending for
such a motion.  Thus, granting such
relief by way of an opposition brief is improper.  Further, even if the Court were to consider a
section 473(b) request, this request in the opposition (and any forthcoming CCP
§ 473(b) motion) would be untimely as over 6 months have elapsed from the
filing of the complaint. Finally, in the Court’s view, section 473 cannot be
used to nullify a statute of limitations.  Thus, this request to apply for section 473(b)
relief is improper.
Next, Plaintiffs argue that the Court
should apply equitable tolling because Plaintiffs complied with the notice and
recordation requirements of the mechanic’s lien law, such that Defendant was on
notice and Defendant would not be prejudiced by any delay.  However, Civil Code, § 8460(a) states that
“[t]he claimant shall commence an action to
enforce a lien within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien. If the
claimant does not commence an action to enforce the lien within that time, the
claim of lien expires and is unenforceable.”  Section 8460 expressly requires Plaintiffs to
have filed an action within 90 days; otherwise, the consequences are made
clear: the claim of lien expires and is unenforceable.  Although the circumstances are unfortunate,
the plain language of the statute makes the mechanic’s lien unenforceable where
an action was not timely filed. 
Plaintiffs have not provided any law that would provide an exception. 
Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that
they filed the complaint originally on July 28, 2023, but that the clerk
rejected the complaint, such that it was filed on July 31, 2023.  Even if the complaint were filed on July 28,
2023, it would still be untimely as the 90-day deadline fell on July 27,
2023.  Thus, this opposition argument too
fails.  
            For these reasons, the petition to
remove the mechanic’s lien against Defendant’s property is granted. 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Defendant demurs to each cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
A.   
FAC
“A party may amend its pleading once without leave
of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to
strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is
filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the
amended pleading is filed and served no later than the date for
filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike. A party may
amend the pleading after the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the parties. The time
for responding to an amended pleading shall be computed from the date of
service of the amended pleading.”  (CCP §
472(a).)  
The due date of Plaintiffs’ opposition to the demurrer was
May 17, 2024.  Plaintiffs electronically
lodged the FAC on May 22, 2024.  As the
FAC was not timely lodged and filed with the Court by May 17, 2024, the FAC
will not be considered the operative pleading. 
As such, the demurrer to the initial complaint shall go forward.  
B.    
1st to 3rd causes of action for
Breach of Contract 
Defendant demurs to the 1st to
3rd causes of action for breach of contract by Restoration,
Abatement, and L.Y., respectively.  
The essential elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.” 
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  
In the 1st cause of action by
Restoration, Plaintiffs allege that in August 2022, Defendant entered into an
agreement with Restoration by which Restoration agreed to furnish certain
labor, services, equipment, and materials for a work of improvement at the
property.  (Compl., ¶17.)  Restoration alleges that it performed all
conditions and obligations imposed by the invoices governing the parties’
contractual relationship.  (Id.,
¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
breached its contractual obligations by failing to and refusing to compensate Restoration
for reasonable value of the labor, services, equipment, and materials provided
to Defendant for use in the property, such that $378,950.05 is now due and
owing.  (Id., ¶19.)  
In the 2nd cause of action by
Abatement, Plaintiffs allege that in August 2022, Defendant entered into an
agreement with Abatement by which Abatement agreed to furnish certain labor,
services, equipment, and materials for a work of improvement at the property.  (Compl., ¶23.)  Abatement alleges that it performed all
conditions and obligations imposed by the invoices governing the parties’
contractual relationship.  (Id.,
¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
breached its contractual obligations by failing to and refusing to compensate Abatement
for reasonable value of the labor, services, equipment, and materials provided
to Defendant for use in the property, such that $16,000 is now due and
owing.  (Id., ¶25.)  
In the 3rd cause of action by L.Y.,
Plaintiffs allege that in August 2022, Defendant entered into an agreement with
L.Y. by which L.Y. agreed to furnish certain labor, services, equipment, and
materials for a work of improvement at the property.  (Compl., ¶29.)  L.Y. alleges that it performed all conditions
and obligations imposed by the invoices governing the parties’ contractual
relationship.  (Id., ¶30.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant breached its
contractual obligations by failing to and refusing to compensate L.Y. for
reasonable value of the labor, services, equipment, and materials provided to
Defendant for use in the property, such that $6,375 is now due and owing.  (Id., ¶31.)  
Defendant argues that the three causes of
action fail to allege whether there is only a single contract or three separate
contracts at issue.  To the extent that
the contracts are written agreements, copies of the agreements are not attached
to the complaint.  If the terms are oral
or a written copy of the agreements cannot be provided upon amendment, then
Plaintiffs should provide additional facts alleging the material terms of the agreements.  The demurrer to the 1st to 3rd
causes of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
C.    
4th to 6th causes of action for
Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Liens 
In light of the ruling on Defendant’s
petition to remove the mechanic’s lien against Defendant’s property, the
demurrer to the 4th to 6th causes of action is sustained
without leave to amend. 
D.   
7th to 9th causes of action for
Quantum Meruit 
Defendant demurs to the 7th to
9th causes of action for quantum meruit against Restoration,
Abatement, and L.Y., respectively.  
“A quantum
meruit or quasi-contractual recovery rests upon the equitable theory that a
contract to pay for services rendered is implied by law for reasons of justice. [Citation.] However, it is well settled that
there is no equitable basis for an implied-in-law promise to pay reasonable
value when the parties have an actual agreement covering compensation.”  (Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First
Alliance Mortgage Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1419.)  “To recover on a claim for the reasonable
value of services under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must establish
both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an express or implied request
for services from the defendant and that the services rendered were intended to
and did benefit the defendant. (Ochs v. PacifiCare of
California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.) 
In the 7th cause of action by
Restoration, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant requested, by words or conduct,
that Restoration perform services at the property for the benefit of Defendant.
(Compl., ¶50.)  Restoration alleges that
it performed works of improvement upon the property as requested, but the cost
and value of the services have not been paid. 
(Id., ¶51.) Restoration alleges that reasonable value of the
services provided is not less than $379,950.05. 
(Id., ¶52.)  Abatement
makes similar allegations, but alleges that the reasonable value of its
services was not less than $16,000.  (Id.,
¶¶54-56.)  L.Y. makes similar
allegations, but alleges that the reasonable value of its services was not less
than $6,375.  (Id., ¶¶58-60.)  
            Defendant demurs to the quantum
meruit causes of action, arguing that Plaintiffs generally and in a conclusory
fashion allege that they rendered services to Defendant that were intended to
and did benefit Defendant.  However,
Defendant argues that there are no fact supporting these allegations.  Defendant also argues that there are no
allegations regarding whether the Plaintiffs acted pursuant to an express or
implied request for services from Defendant.  As currently alleged, the elements of quantum
meruit have not been fully alleged.  
            The demurrer to the 7th
to 9th causes of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Morrison Studios, Ltd. L.P.’s petition
to release the property from the mechanics lien is granted.  Defendant is ordered to prepare and
electronically lodge a proposed order addressing the factors listed in Civil
Code, § 8490 for the Court’s signing.  
Defendant Morrison
Studios, Ltd. L.P.’s demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  The
demurrer to the 4th to 6th causes of action is sustained
without leave to amend. 
The
first amended complaint electronically lodged by Plaintiffs on May 22, 2024
shall not be deemed filed and will be stricken. 
Plaintiffs should file a new FAC based on the Court’s orders.  
            Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
 
DATED: May 31,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court