 Case Number:  23BBCV00638    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Vahe
  bonoughounian dba auto outlet, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Robert wayne collins, et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00638
    
  Hearing Date:  May 31, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
application for writ of possession 



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.    Allegations 
Plaintiff Vahe Bonoughounian dba Auto
Outlet (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on August 26, 2022, he entered into a Motor
Vehicle Sale by Transfer of Title agreement with Defendants Robert Wayne
Collins and Michael Robert Collins.  He
alleges that he paid Michael Robert Collins $28,600 by negotiable instrument
and Michael Robert Collins delivered to Plaintiff the keys and possession of a
2019 Chevrolet Colorado model pick-up truck and a written Certificate of Title,
executed by Defendants.  Plaintiff
alleges that Robert Wayne Collins complained to the Simi Valley Police
Department that his son, Michael Robert Collins, sold the vehicle without his
consent, disavowing the sale and causing the police to seize the vehicle from
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff seeks a return of
the vehicle or a full monetary refund. 
The complaint, filed March 21, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) common counts; (3)
fraud; (4) intentional tort; and (5) exemplary damages.  
B.     Cross-Complaint 
On March 19, 2024, Michael Collins (a
self-represented litigant) filed a second amended cross-complaint (“SAXC”)
against Robert Collins for: (1) breach of oral agreement; (2) specific
performance (deleted); (3) declaratory judgment (deleted); (4) wrongful
eviction; (5) claim and delivery (deleted); (6) conversion; and (7) unjust
enrichment (deleted). 
Michael Collins alleges that in 2002, the
parties entered an oral agreement whereby Robert Wayne Collins would purchase
the property located at 6913 White Oak Ave. in Reseda under his name in order
to obtain a low-interest rate for Michael Collins’s exclusive benefit, while
Michael Collins would renovate the property and eventually have the property
title registered under his own name.  (SAXC,
¶¶12-15.)  Michael Collins alleges that
he made the down payment on the property, the monthly mortgage payments, and
performed all the repairs and improvements. 
(Id., ¶17.)  Michael
Collins alleges that in 2005, he requested that Robert Wayne Collins list the
property for sale in order to liquidate the $300,000 equity that had accrued;
the parties stipulated that the property would not be sold for a price less
than its market value of $500,000.  (Id.,
¶¶18-20.)  Michael Collins alleges that
the property was sold, but Robert Wayne Collins did not provide the proceeds of
the sale to Michael Collins as expected. 
(Id., ¶21.)  To avoid a
lawsuit, they executed an oral agreement in 2008 that the proceeds would be
deposited in Robert Wayne Collins’ retirement account and/or other financial
accounts and Michael Collins was to be designated as the sole beneficiary.  (Id., ¶¶22-23.)  In 2019, Michael Collins and Robert Wayne
Collins lived together and procured a used truck from the sale of the property
held in trust by Robert Wayne Collins, but the truck had issues and so it was
sold in April 2019 for $6,000.  (Id.,
¶¶24-27.)  The proceeds from the sale
were used by Michael Collins to purchase a new 2019 Chevy Colorado Z71 truck,
but Robert Wayne Collins’ name was on the registration because he chose to
finance his portion of the purchase instead of paying cash like Michael Collins.  (Id., ¶¶27-29.)  Michael Collins’ name was added as the
registered owner on the new title and Michael Collins took possession of the
vehicle.  (Id., ¶¶30-31.)  Michael Collins alleges that he was
terminated from his employment and attempted to sell the truck to Plaintiff
around August 29, 2022, he and his father had a dispute, and Robert Wayne
Collins told Michael Collins that he could no longer reside at the
property.  (Id., ¶¶32-36.)  Michael Collins alleges that he attempted to
retrieve his personal property, but Robert Wayne Collins threatened to call the
police, such that he has been deprived of $40,000 of his possession.  (Id., ¶38.)  Michael Collins alleges that he attempted to
sell the truck, but the transaction was nullified due to seizure of the vehicle
by the police department, which was caused by Robert Wayne Collins’ report on
August 30, 2022.  (Id.,
¶¶42-43.)  
C.     Motion on Calendar 
On April 17, 2024, Michael Collins filed
an application for writ of possession against Robert Collins.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP §
512.010 requires that the application for writ of possession be executed under
oath and include affidavits showing the following: 
(1)  
A
showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
(2)  
A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the
manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the reason for the detention.
(3)  
A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value.
(4)  
A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there.
(5)  
A statement that the property has not
been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized,
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
(CCP § 512.010(b).) 
CCP §
512.060 permits the Court to issue a writ of possession when the Court finds
the following:
(1)  
The
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff's claim to
possession of the property.
(2)  
The undertaking
requirements of CCP § 515.010 are satisfied.
(CCP
§ 512.060.)
DISCUSSION  
A.    Probable
Validity of Michael
Collins’s Claims
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Michael Collins filed an application for writ of possession against Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Robert Collins.  The claimed property
includes the silver 2019 Chevy Z71 Crew Cab Short Box Truck.    
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: “(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom. [Citation.]”  (Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1178.)  
In support of the application, Michael
Collins provides his own declaration.  Michael
Collins states that on May 9, 2019, he acquired the vehicle from Simi Valley
Chevrolet to serve as a replacement for his previous Dodge Ram.  (M. Collins Decl., ¶4.)  He states that the purchase of the truck was
facilitated by the sale of his Dodge Ram truck, with the $6,000 proceeds being
used as a down payment.  (Id.,
¶5.)  He states that Robert Collins
generously financed the remaining balance of the truck as a gift to him, under
an installment agreement with the dealership. 
(Id., ¶6.)  He states that
despite the financing agreement requiring the vehicle’s paperwork to be in Robert
Collins’ name, it was mutually understood and agreed that Michael Collins would
be the sole and exclusive owner of the truck. 
(Id., ¶7.)  He states that
he took immediate delivery of the truck from the dealership and has maintained
exclusive use and possession of the truck until around August 30, 2022, when he
attempted to sell it to Robert Collins. 
(Id., ¶8.)  He states that
the sale was nullified because the truck was impounded by the police and
subsequently released to Robert Collins who is currently in wrongful possession
of the truck.  (Id.)  Michael Collins states that Robert Collins
rapidly paid off the loan for the vehicle but the paperwork to transfer
ownership to Michael Collins was not filed with the DMV, as a result both their
names appear on the title.  (Id.,
¶9 at page 3, lines 5-7.)  Michael
Collins believes that Robert Collins used this inclusion to misrepresent the
nature his contribution to law enforcement, claiming ownership of the vehicle
rather than acknowledging his role as benefactor.  (Id., ¶10 at p. 3, lines 8-12.)  He also believes that the police seized the
vehicle and subsequently released it to Robert Collins because of the false
allegations.  (Id., ¶9 at p. 3,
lines 13-17.)  He states that he was the
primary user and possessor of the truck until August 30, 2022.  (Id., ¶10 at p. 3, lines 18-21.)  He states that since he had ownership of the
vehicle, he spent $2,500 to upgrade the audio system and more than $1,000 to
repair damage to the wiring.  (Id.,
¶11.)  
Other than his own declaration, Michael
Collins has not provided any documentary evidence of the sales contract for the
truck, the title/ownership documents, or any other evidence that the parties
had an oral agreement that Robert Collins would gift the truck to Michael
Collins.  Michael Collins’ own declaration
states that the paperwork filed with the DMV lists both Michael Collins and
Robert Collins as the title holders, such that Robert Collins may be in valid
possession of the vehicle.  (A copy of
the DMV document is not provided.) There is no quantification of Michael
Collins’ relative contribution to the purchase of the vehicle, and no
explanation of Plaintiff’s claims.  
At this time, the Court finds that Michael
Collins has not established the probable validity of his claim for possession
of the truck against Robert Collins.  Thus,
he has not shown that he has the right to take immediate possession of the
subject vehicle.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s application
for a writ of possession against Defendant/Cross-Defendant Robert Collins is denied.

Defendant/Cross-Complainant
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: May 31,
2024                                              ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   