  Case Number:  22AHCV01370    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GREG LEWIS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE
  NO.: 22AHCV01370
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
  3, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On December
22, 2022, plaintiff Greg Lewis (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”), which includes Los Angeles
County Department of Children and Family Services (“DCFS”) (DCFS was erroneously
sued as a separate entity). Plaintiff also named Alma Flores (“Flores”) and
Christine Ramirez (“Ramirez”) as defendants. Plaintiff asserts causes of action
for violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, negligence per se, negligence, and violation
of Civil Code section 52.1 (“Bane Act”). 
          On
May 15, 2023, Defendant filed a notice of removal to federal court. While the
action was pending in federal court, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint
(“FAC”), a copy of which is not available in the Court’s records. On April 16,
2024, the district court dismissed Plaintiff’s first and second causes of
action and remanded the remaining third and fourth state law causes of action. 
On May 22,
2024, Defendant filed this demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to
comply with the claim presentation requirements of Government Code section
911.2, et seq. Defendant further demurs to the third and fourth causes of
action because Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action for negligence per se and negligence. 
On September
18, 2024, Plaintiff file an opposition brief. 
On September
25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the
complaint as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.
[Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California
Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) 
III.    DISCUSSION
Defendant demurs to the FAC on the
grounds that Plaintiff failed to comply with the Government Tort Claims Act and
cites to Paragraph 16, which purportedly alleges that Plaintiff filed his
prelitigation claim on March 24, 2022. (Demurrer, p. 6, citing FAC, ¶ 16.) Defendant
also demurs to the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to set forth a
statutory basis for his negligence and negligence per se claims. 
As a demurrer tests the allegations of
the complaint, the Court cannot determine if the FAC’s allegations are
sufficient if the FAC is not on file with the Court. Also, no copy of the FAC
was attached to the demurrer; only a copy of the district court’s order on
Defendant’s motion to dismiss is included. Accordingly, the Court continues the
hearing to ________ so that Plaintiff may file a copy of the FAC for the
Court’s records. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
The hearing is continued to _______ at
8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. Plaintiff must file a
copy of the FAC at least 5 court days before the date of the next hearing. No
further briefing is allowed.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 3rd day of October 2024




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 