  Case Number:  20STCV41519    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



IAN ZACHARY BOTNICK, an individual and CANDY MICHELLE BOTNICK,
  an individual and MARY JONES an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company,
  and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV41519
 Hearing Date:   2/9/24
 Trial Date:        3/5/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant BMW of
  North America, LLC’s Renewed Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
  Regarding Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Breach of Express Warranty
  Under the Song-Beverly Act.



 
Background
Pleadings Framing Motion
Plaintiffs Ian Zachary Botnick,
Candy Michelle Botnick, and Mary Jones sued Defendants BMW of North America, LLC (BMW) and Does 1 through 10 pursuant
to an October 29, 2022 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act Section
1793.2(b).
Motion Before the Court
On May 2, 2023, the Court ruled on
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication filed by BMW against the
Complaint’s three causes of action, granting the motion as to the latter two
claims, but denying as to the first cause of action.
On October 20, 2023, BMW filed a
renewed motion for summary judgment of the Complaint’s sole operative claim:
the first cause of action for Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty (renewed MSJ). The motion is premised on new evidence
upon which BMW seeks a renewed determination regarding summary judgment of the
breach of express warranty claim.
On November 2, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a motion for leave to amend the Complaint to add two new claims to the
pleadings. On December 27, 2023, BMW opposed that motion, and on January 3,
2024, Plaintiffs replied before the Court granted the motion on January 10,
2024.
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC).
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs
opposed the renewed MSJ.
On January 31, 2024, BMW replied to
the opposition.
BMW’s renewed MSJ is now before the
Court.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
In granting
or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court
need rule only on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its
disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for
purposes of the motion shall be preserved for appellate review. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) Evidentiary objections not made either in writing or
orally shall be deemed waived. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b).)
Reply
Objections to Opposition Evidence
Objections:
All OVERRULED as not material to disposition of motion.
 
Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication
Legal
Standard
A
motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact for trial or that the
moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) A party may also seek summary adjudication of select causes
of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which
may be made by a standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary
judgment and proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary
judgment, but which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action,
affirmative defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t).) The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on
summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather
than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for
a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this burden,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
I.
Complaint, First Cause of Action, Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty: DENIED;
Alternatively, MOOT.
The
Court DENIES summary judgment.
First,
“[a] motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Here, the
Complaint’s first cause of action does not limit itself to express warranty
relief pursuant to Civil Code section 1793.2, instead seeking relief pursuant
to “Civil Code sections 1790 et seq.” (Complaint, ¶ 19, italics omitted.)
Relief pursuant to Civil Code section 1795.5 for breach of express warranties
connected to used vehicles is therefore within the scope of the first cause of
action, a conclusion that is logically sound where the Complaint itself
recognizes that the Vehicle was purchased used. (See Complaint, ¶ 8.) BMW’s renewed
MSJ challenges the Complaint’s first cause of action only insofar as it alleges
a breach of express warranty for a new vehicle under the SBA, not for a used
vehicle under the SBA. (See Mot., pp. 6-7 [only two references to Civ. Code §
1795.5 or similar and failing to make argument for no breach of used vehicle
express warranty].) The motion is thus fatally limited (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1)), something noted in passing by the Court in its May 2, 2023
order (5/2/23 Minutes, p. 6). Moreover, while California courts interpreted now-superseded
California law as permitting summary adjudication of alternative bases for a
cause of action pled in a single count (Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior
Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855), those decisions came prior to
a modification to the statutory scheme, which now provides that “[a] motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1)). (See Bagley v. TRW, Inc. (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1094, fn. 2 [questioning application of Lilienthal
in light of practical challenges and changes to the statutory scheme re:
disposing of entire cause of action, defense, claim of damages, or duty].)
While
the above basis is dispositive, the Court notes two other flaws in the motion. First,
“a party may not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior
motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court, unless that party
establishes to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or
circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the
summary judgment motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).) Here, on May
2, 2023, the Court denied summary adjudication of the Complaint’s first cause
of action in part because BMW had failed to attach a declaration showing that
BMW has no relationship with CarMax. (5/2/23 Minutes, pp. 5-6.) BMW now brings
this renewed MSJ on the ground that BMW now presents new evidence that
conclusively establishes that it has no business relationship at all with
CarMax. (See, e.g., Mot., p. 2, Notice, ¶¶ (1)-(3).) However, the motion does
not properly explain why these declarations were not attached to BMW’s February
16, 2023 motion for summary judgment or adjudication. (See Mot., pp. 2-3
[merely arguing that Court has discretion to hear this motion but not
addressing failure to attach evidence to prior motion].) The renewed MSJ
therefore does not satisfy subdivision (f)(2).
The
Court finds it important to note that even if evidence to the above effect had
been attached to BMW’s February 16, 2023 motion, the Court would have still denied
that motion for the reason discussed in the preceding paragraph, a fact specifically
in the Court’s May 2, 2023 order. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 8, 19; 5/2/23 Minutes, p.
6 [“the first cause of action does not limit itself to express warranty relief
pursuant to Civil code section 1793.2”].)
Last,
in the alternative, the Court determines that BMW’s renewed motion was mooted
by Plaintiff’s filing of a FAC on January 10, 2024. (See Perry v. Atkinson
(1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 14, 17-18 [finding “court improperly granted summary
adjudication as to the fraud and deceit cause of action in [the] first amended
complaint” where “[t]he record reflect[ed] the court granted [plaintiff] leave
to file [a] second amended complaint with respect to her causes of action for
fraud and deceit and intentional infliction of emotional distress,” and once
“[plaintiff] did so, that complaint superseded her first amended complaint,”
making the trial court’s “summary adjudication order [re: the first amended
complaint’s claims for fraud and deceit] … void”].) 

Conclusion
Defendant BMW of North America,
LLC’s Renewed Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication Regarding Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action for Breach of Express Warranty Under the Song-Beverly Act
is DENIED.
In the alternative, the Court
determines the motion is MOOT.