 Case Number:  22STCV01130    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant Dejanae
Zelaya
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of David T. Main, D.C
 
Tentative
The motions are denied.
Background
On January 11, 2022, Deshawnbai Davis (“Plaintiff”) filed the
Complaint in this action, which arises out of an alleged motor vehicle accident
on September 12, 2021. In the Complaint, Plaintiff asserts one cause of action
for negligence against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Metro”), Dejanae Zelaya (“Zelaya”), and Does 1
through 50.
Metro filed its Answer to
the Complaint on April 4, 2022.  Zelaya filed her Answer to the
Complaint on December 12, 2022.
Currently before the Court, and set for hearing on June 24, are motions
regarding the depositions of Defendant Zelaya and third-party witness Dr. David
Main.  
Previous motions regarding these same two depositions previously
came before the Court for hearing.  On
January 30, 2024, the Court: (1) granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant
Zelaya to appear for deposition and ordered her to do so within 30 days; and
(2) denied the motion the compel Dr. Main to appear for deposition,
without prejudice, based on the failure to serve him personally (or otherwise
in accordance with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346).
On March 20 and 21, Plaintiff filed the two motions set for
hearing on June 24: (1) another motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for
deposition; and (2) another motion to compel Dr. Main to appear for deposition.  Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions as to the first
motion only.
On June 10, Defendants Metro and Zelaya filed an opposition to the
motion to compel Zelaya to appear for deposition.  No opposition was filed to the motion to
compel Dr. Main to appear for deposition. 

On June 14, Plaintiff filed replies.
 
Legal Standard
Party
Deposition
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
Section
2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  
Any
such motion to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and,
when a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).)  
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses
of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
When a party fails to obey an order compelling attendance and
testimony at a deposition, “the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 [of the Civil Discovery Act.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(h).)  “In lieu of, or in addition to,
this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Ibid.)
Non-Party
Deposition
The process by
which a party may obtain discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action is through a deposition subpoena. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).)  Personal service of the deposition subpoena
on the non-party is required.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
“must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
Motion to
Compel as to Defendant Zelaya
 
The
Court previously determined that Defendant Zelaya failed to appear for her
properly noticed deposition on October 17, 2023.  Accordingly, the Court, in its Minute Order
dated January 30, 2024 (the “Minute Order”) granted Plaintiff’s motion to
compel, ordered Zelaya to appear for her deposition within 30 days, and
sanctioned Zelaya.
 
It appears
that Defendant Zelaya did not appear for deposition as ordered.  (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.) to appear for
deposition.  The remedy when a party
violates a court order to appear for deposition is sanctions under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (h).  Plaintiff does not seek these sanctions.
 
Alternatively,
perhaps, Plaintiff could have re-noticed Defendant’s deposition.  If Defendant  failed to appear, then perhaps Plaintiff could
have brought a second motion to compel seeking a second order requiring
Plaintiff to appear and be deposed.  But
Plaintiff did not re-notice Defendant’s deposition.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is denied.  To the extent that
Plaintiff seeks a second order based on Defendant’s failure to appear for her deposition
that was noticed for October 17, 2023, the motion is denied on the ground that
the Court has already granted relief for that failure to appear, and a request
for further relief is unnecessary, not authorized by the Civil Discovery Act,
and moot.  To the extent that Plaintiff
seeks a second order based on a new deposition notice, it is unsupported by
evidence.  And Plaintiff does not seek
sanctions, as Plaintiff could have, under section 2025.450, subdivision (h).
 
As the
motion to compel is denied, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also
denied.  
 
Motion
to Compel as to Non-Party Dr. Main
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 expressly requires that a motion to compel a
non-party to comply with a deposition subpoena “must be personally served on
the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by
mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.”
 
The
Court denied Plaintiff’s first motion to compel as to Dr. Main based on the
failure to comply with rule 3.1346.
 
The
Court denies this second motion to compel as to Dr. Main based on the failure
to comply with rule 3.1346.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant Zelaya. 
 
The
Court DENIES, without prejudice, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
David T. Main, D.C. 
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.