 Case Number:  22STCV18960    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel
George Mgdesyan.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On June 9, 2022, Leanna Fergusson
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of the wheelchair ramp being deployed onto Plaintiff’s
foot on October 2, 2021. On August 9, 2023, Defendant filed its answer.
On May 29, 2024, George Mgdesyan (“Counsel”)
filed this motion to be relieved as counsel. No opposition has been filed. 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the notice, declaration, and order to be relieved as counsel.  Counsel contends that it has been increasingly
difficult to get a hold of Plaintiff, rendering the attorney-client
relationship broken. Counsel served Defendant with the notice, declaration, and
order. Counsel served the papers to Client’s last known address after calling
the Plaintiff, conducting an online person’s search, and mailing contact
letters with return receipt requested.
 
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved as the communication is
non-existent between Counsel and Plaintiff. 
All substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
 After this
motion was filed, the Court continued the trial date, rendering the dates
included in the proposed order incorrect. (May 31, 2024 Minute Order.)
 Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
The Judicial
Assistant is directed to revise the entries on Items 7, 8, and 9 of the order.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The order is effective upon the filing with the Court of
a proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client. 
 The Judicial
Assistant is directed to revise the entries on Items 7, 8, and 9 of the order.
Moving counsel
is ordered to give notice.