 Case Number:  22STCV31873    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District.
 
Tentative
The Court will call this matter to discuss
scheduling with counsel.
The Court’s tentative ruling is to grant the motion,
at least in part.
Background
This case arises out of a tragic set of
circumstances in which a minor child, Giancarlo Calvo, died on November 17,
2021, following one or more fights with other students at school that had
occurred in the prior period of approximately three weeks.  
On September 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Elvia Celis-Salas
and Carlos Calvo (“Plaintiffs”) filed the initial Complaint in this action against
Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”), and Does 1 through 100, asserting
causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention,
Supervision and Training, and (3) Wrongful Death arising out of the injuries to
and death of Giancarlo.  Defendant filed
its Answer on November 7, 2022.
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant. On January 16, 2024, Defendant filed an
answer to the FAC.
 
On May 17, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment.  The motion is set for hearing
on April 21, 2025.  The current trial
date is September 3, 2024.
 
On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to continue
trial. 
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed what the Court assumes
is an opposition, although (1) it is not signed and (2) it is entitled, “Notice
of Taking of the Deposition of Defendant, LASUD’S Person Most Qualified.”  On June 14, Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendant moves to
continue trial so that its motion for summary judgment, set for hearing on April
21, 2025, can be heard before trial.  The
current trial date is September 3, 2024. 
Defendant has a
right to have its timely filed motion for summary judgment heard before
trial.  (Cole v.
Super. Ct. (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88; Sentry Ins. Co.
v. Super. Ct. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529)
The Court denies
Plaintiffs’ alternative request for a special setting of the hearing prior to the
current trial.  The Court does not have
dates available that satisfy the statutory requirements for a hearing in
advance of the current trial date. 
The Court will
call this matter to discuss advancing the summary judgment hearing date and
then granting a shorter continuance of trial than the one requested by
Defendant.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to
continue trial.
The Court ADVANCES the date of the hearing on
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment (filed May 17, 2024) to _______________.
The Court CONTINUES the trial date to
__________________.  The Final Status
Conference and all discovery deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 