 Case Number:  23STCV14979    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-18-24
Case
#: 23STCV14979
Trial
Date: 10-28-24
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Luis Robles
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, FCA US LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
June 27, 2023, plaintiff Luis Robles filed a complaint against General Motors
LLC for Violation of the Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty, Violation
of the Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Implied Warranty, Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Civil Code section 1793.2, and Violation of the Song Beverly
Act Civil Code section 1793.22—Tanner Consumer Protection Act. On August 21,
2023, General Motors answered the complaint.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Luis Robles moves to compel further responses to
request for production of documents, numbers 13-16 and 34-35. The dispute
involves the request for general categories of documents to which Plaintiff characterizes
as unmeritorious objections and non-responsive statements. While the complaint
lacks a single factual reference to a part or operating system within the
vehicle, Plaintiff maintains the items address “transmission issues,” including
“excessive vibration” and “engine” noise. Defendant in opposition maintains Plaintiff
failed to engage in a meaningful meet and confer effort, the objections remain
valid, and the court should refrain from the imposition of any sanctions. Plaintiff
in reply challenges the narrow definitions applied by Defendant. Plaintiff
maintains it seeks information relevant to make, model and year. Plaintiff
reiterates the request for sanctions.
 
Due to the increasing volume of filed Lemon Law cases
in this courtroom and presumably countywide, including the increasing number of
motions to compel further responses, particularly for document production, this
court generally adheres to certain, consistent guidelines for its cases: an
approach allowing discovery into the relevant make and model year for all
impacted systems or parts, without opening the door for a general inquiry into
any and all lemon law claims filed against vehicle manufacturers for all makes
and models, including varying individual and potential system defects. The goal
is to facilitate robust adjudication of the case, without imposing any burden
on defendant to determine the cause of the purported defects, while also
allowing Plaintiff the opportunity to investigate. The court in no way
doctrinally adheres to this policy. The court established this policy based on
established practice standards common among counsel in this field based on
standards established and reviewed by practice and reviewed at least in party
by appellate courts. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153-154; Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc., supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1104-1105.) No doubt
other courts may take different approaches. The court in no way seeks to invite
comparisons with other courtrooms. The court only notes its reasoning behind
its policy.
 
Under the Song-Beverly Act, “[a] plaintiff pursuing
an action under the Act has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a
nonconformity covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the
use, value or safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the
vehicle was presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of
the vehicle for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or
his representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of
repair attempts (the failure to repair element). (Civ.Code, § 1793.2; Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co.
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878, 886–887, 263 Cal.Rptr. 64.)” (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)
 
The court addresses the categories of documents. 
 
All DOCUMENTS IDENTIFYTNG repurchases made by YOU of the
2018 Chevrolet Silverado, vehicles and allegedly containing any of the
conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which Plaintiff presented the
SUBJECT VEHICLE to YOU for repair. (For purposes of this request, the term
"IDENTIFYING" seeks documents establishing the name of the
complaining PERSON, the complaints made by such PERSON(S), the names of any
lawyers involved as well as case names, court numbers, and locations and
whether such repurchase was voluntary or pursuant to a court order.)
 
All DOCUMENTS evidencing, relating, or referring to
complaints by owners of the 2018 Chevrolet Silverado vehicle regarding any of
the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which Plaintiff presented the
SUBJECT VEHICLE to YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility for repair.
 
All surveys, reports, summaries, or other DOCUMENTS in which
owners of the 2018 Chevrolet Silverado vehicle have reported to YOU problems
with any of the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which Plaintiff
presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE to YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility for
repair. (For example, YOU survey YOUR new car buyers. If any of the survey
responses refer to the above-listed conditions, defects, or nonconformities,
Plaintiffs request these 17 DOCUMENTS be produced.)
 
All DOCUMENTS which evidence, describe, relate, or refer to
the numbers of owners of the 2018 Chevrolet Silverado vehicle who have
complained of any of the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which
Plaintiff presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE to YOU or YOUR authorized repair
facility for repair.
 
All DOCUMENTS which evidence, refer, or relate to technical
service bulletins which have been issued for vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
All DOCUMENTS which evidence, refer, or relate to recalls
which have been issued for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
The
categories limit information to the make, model and year, but the requests
lacks sufficient articulation and indication limiting the inquiry into the
indicated area of failure and attempted repair(s) to said parts or systems. While
the complaint lacks said information, the court assumes the parties are
familiar with the factual basis of the dispute, including “transmission
issues,” “excessive vibration” and “engine” noise. 
 
Assuming
familiarity between the parties, the court finds the general requests overbroad
in that defects, nonconformities, complaints, surveys, and warranty repair
efforts and repurchases, can cover any number of items well beyond the scope of
the subject matter. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
216, 224–225; (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) As stated in the guidelines above, the court
declines to allow open ended broad based discovery phrased like the subject
items in order to allow law firms to build databases with court ordered
discovery of material beyond the scope of the claim. 
 
Notwithstanding
the validity of the objections, the flat out refusal to produce any documents in
response to numbers 13-16, or engage in efforts to refine the search terms, lacks
support. The court declines to determine whether the previously produced
documents sufficiently comply. The requests still seek valid information, as
specifically related to the vaguely defined terms. Thus, if General Motors
maintains ALL of the subject information was previously provided, including for
categories numbers 34 and 35, General Motors may provide a code conforming
response and objections. If General Motors maintains the information constitutes
privileged information in any form, General Motors, at a minimum, must provide
a privilege log. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c).)
 
If
necessary for the presentation of further responses, the court invites the
parties to refine the scope of the inquiry. The court declines to otherwise
engage in specific refinement of the inquiry into terms most likely within the
domain of experts and persons most knowledgeable based on the operative
complaint and phrased requested presented.
 
The
motion is therefore granted subject to refinement to a more precise statement
of categories limited to make, model, year and deficiency(ies), if necessary.
The parties may negotiate search terms, if helpful. The court reserves the
right to direct discovery to a referee, particularly if supervision over
electronic production, any PMQ deposition(s), or other court resource intensive
requests, if the subject action returns to the court on continued overbroad
discovery inquiries.
 
Thus,
subject to further refinement, the court orders General Motors to provide
further, more factually articulated, code conforming responses, which may also
include a privilege log. Intentionally obstreperous objections and/or refusals
to produce documents, without factual accountability of previously produced
documents or a statement of no other existing documents, may lead to further
orders with increasing sanctions and a referee referral.
 
The
minimum amount of sanctions for each motion to compel production of documents
increased to $1,000 per motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.050, subd. (a)(1).)
The court therefore imposes sanctions in the amount of $1,000 joint and
severally imposed against both Defendant General Motors and counsel for
Defendant, and payable within 30 days of this order. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
Trial
set for October 28, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 