 Case Number:  22STCV04773    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Monday, March 11, 2024Case Name:                             Shona Latrece Ware, et al. v. Phillip F. Arrington Jr., et al.Case No.:                                22STCV04773           Motion:                                  Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Sanctions of $3,200.00 Moving Party:                         Defendant Phillip F. Arrington Jr. (“Defendant”)Responding Party:                  *UNOPPOSED*Notice:                                    NONE FILED WITH THE COURT  Ruling:                                    The Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiffs shall serve verified responses, without objection, within 30 days.                                                 The Court DENIES sanctions. Defendant to give notice.  BACKGROUND            On February 8, 2022, Plaintiff Shona Latrece Ware, Justin Heard, Maliyah Mclin, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Jasmine Sutton, Xzavier Mclin, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem Jasmine Sutton (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Phillip F. Arrington Jr., as trustee of the Phillip F. Arrington Jr. Trust, and Does 1 to 50 (collectively, “Defendants”). The complaint alleges the following causes of action: breach of implied warranty of habitability, breach of statutory warranty of habitability, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, negligence, violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, private nuisance, violation of tenant anti-harassment ordinance, and violation of Civil Code section 1942.5.               On August 3, 2023, Defendant propounded the first set of Form Interrogatories on Plaintiff.            Plaintiff failed to respond at all. Plaintiff also failed to respond to meet-and-confer efforts regarding the Form Interrogatories, Set One.            On February 15, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel responses. On the same day, Defendant filed an Ex Parte Application for Shortening Time, and the Court granted the Application on February 16, 2024. Therefore, the hearing was advanced to March 11, 2024, rather than April 19, 2024.            As of March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs have not filed their oppositions. However, Defendant did not file Proof of Service with the Court which suggests that Plaintiffs may have not been served the present Motion. Nevertheless, the Court analyzes the Motion below on its merits.DISCUSSIONApplicable Law            CCP §2031.300(b) states that “[i]f a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it,” “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”            Failure to respond “waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).)            The court “shall” impose monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).) Application to Facts            Defendant served the first set of Form Interrogatories on Plaintiffs on August 3, 2023 and the responses were due on September 7, 2023. (Roque Declaration, ¶ 4 and Exhibit A.) Plaintiffs did not respond or seek an extension before or after the deadline. (Id. at ¶ 5.) To date, Plaintiffs failed to respond to the discovery requests or the meet and confer letter. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) Thus, Plaintiffs waived all objections to Form Interrogatories, Set One. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).)            Accordingly, the motion to compel responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiffs shall serve verified responses, without objection, within 30 days.  Sanctions            Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $3,200.00 against Plaintiffs jointly and/or severally. This amount includes 8 hours at $400/hour for Sabrina L. Roque’s time preparing the present Motion and the Ex Parte Application for Order Shortening Time. (Roque Declaration, ¶ 3.)            Although, Plaintiffs failed to respond to the discovery request, Defendant failed to provide a Proof of Service showing that Plaintiffs were served the present Motion. Thus, Plaintiffs’ lack of opposition, without more proof does not show that they did not act without “substantial justification”. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).). Therefore, it would be unjust to sanction Plaintiffs.            Accordingly, the Court denies sanctions.CONCLUSIONThe Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiffs shall serve verified responses, without objection, within 30 days.The Court DENIES sanctions. 