  Case Number:  20STCV10762    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling Judge Kevin C. Brazile Department 20  Hearing Date:                         Monday, March 11, 2024Case Name:                             Yesenia Amaro et al. v. Hwy 111 Hotel Group, LPCase No.:                                20STCV10762Motion:                                  Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action for MinorsMoving Party:                         Petitioner Marlene Barboza, guardian ad litem for Mar MoralesNotice:                                     OK   Ruling:                                    The petition for approval of a compromise of a pending action for minors by Petitioner Marlene Barboza, guardian ad litem for Mar Morales is GRANTED.     BACKGROUND On March 17, 2020, Approximately one hundred and two Plaintiffs including Marlene Barboza, guardian ad litem for Mar Morales (collectively “Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Defendants HWY 111 Hotel Group, LP, Shields Housing Corporation and Does 1-50 for (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability; (2) breach of statutory warranty of habitability; (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4) negligence; (5) violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4; and (6) private nuisance.Plaintiffs allege Defendant  HWY 111 Hotel Group, LP was the owner of an apartment building in which Plaintiffs were tenants. Plaintiffs allege that, during their tenancy, Defendant’s ownership and management made the premises unsafe and uninhabitable because of various conditions, including a pervasive vermin infestation. After repeated complaints, Defendant failed to correct these problems.   DISCUSSION Applicable Law I.         Minor’s Compromise  A claim by or against a minor can be settled only with court approval. CCP § 372; Probate Code §§2504, 3500, 3600 et. seq.  The petition must contain a full disclosure of all information that bears on the reasonableness of the compromise. See Weil & Brown, Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶12:574.5. The court must not only approve the amount of the settlement, but also the attorneys’ fees, the litigation costs, and other expenses, as well as how the settlement proceeds are to be invested.  See Prob. Code §§ 3600; 3610.  Under CRC Rule 7.950, the petition must be verified, and must include:   (1)¿The name, birthdate, age, and sex of the minor or person with a disability; (2)¿An account of the facts or events and the circumstances out of which the claim or injury arose, including the time, the place, and the identity of the persons involved; (3)¿A description of the nature and extent of the injury giving rise to the claim, with sufficient particularity to inform the court whether the injury is permanent or temporary; (4)¿An original or a photocopy of all doctors' reports containing a diagnosis of and prognosis for the injury, and a report of the claimant's present condition; (5)¿In all cases in which payment for medical or hospital care or treatment for the claimant is sought, the names of the hospitals, doctors, and other providers furnishing the care, the amounts of the respective charges for the care (whether paid or owing), the amounts paid (whether covered by insurance or not), the amounts of any negotiated reductions of the charges, and the net amount owed to each provider; (6)¿The amount of attorney's fees requested and the basis for the fees, with an itemization of the costs sought to be allowed and charged against the settlement; (7)¿The gross and net amounts of the settlement; (8)¿A description of the manner in which the settlement proceeds will be distributed; (9)¿A full disclosure of all amounts, if any, paid or to be paid to other claimants; (10)¿A statement of whether the petitioner is a plaintiff in the same action with the minor or claimant with a disability and, if so, whether the pendency or disposition of the petitioner's claim on his or her own behalf has in any way affected the proposed compromise of the claim; (11)¿A statement of whether the petitioner is a claimant against the recovery of the minor or claimant with a disability and, if so, whether the pendency or disposition of petitioner's claim on his or her own behalf has in any way affected the proposed compromise of the claim; (12)¿If settlement money is to be deposited in an account or accounts subject to withdrawal only upon order of the court, the name and address of the proposed depository; (13)¿A statement whether notice of the action or claim has been given under Welfare and Institutions Code section 14124.73; and (14)¿If the petition requests an order for payment of money to a special needs trust, a statement of the method by which all statutory liens will be satisfied under Probate Code Section 3604. Here, the petition complies with the CRC.  Defendant has agreed to pay a total of $1,500,000.00 for all of Plaintiffs.  The matter involves 102 plaintiffs total – 35 minor children, and 67 adults. When there is a recovery, attorney fees are a percentage of the recovery for each plaintiff, with 40% recovered from adults and 25% recovered from minors.  The attorneys’ fees total $41,387.82 for the action. The settlement is to be distributed $5,000.00 to 35 settling minors. Minor child Mar Morales will receive $5,000.00 less case $137.96 costs and attorneys’ fees at the contingency fee rate at the reduced rate for minors at 25% of $137.96 for a total recovery $1,125.51. Therefore, Mar Morales will receive a total of $3,646.53 which will be deposited in a blocked account with JP Morgan Chase. Mar Morales did not receive medical care or treatment for the injuries sustained, namely bug bites and allergy type symptoms, such as runny nose, cough, and itchy eyes, which have been treated with over-the-counter medications. Mar Morales’ funds will be deposited in an insured account and the funds are subject to withdrawal only upon approval by the Court.  Accordingly, the Petition is reasonable and complies with the CRC and therefore is APPROVED.