 Case Number:  23LBCV01968    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  S25 Tentative RulingThis Court previously sustained with leave to amend Defendant’s previous demurrer to Plaintiff’s IIED claim, allowing Plaintiff one more opportunity to cure deficiencies. The SAC has added the following additional allegations:1. “Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO did not stop his vehicle despite being aware that he had hit Plaintiff with his vehicle. After hitting Plaintiff, Defendant Aiden Nolasco continued flee the scene despite knowing or should have knowing that Plaintiff was injured and required aid.” (SAC at p. 10, ¶ 1.)2. “Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO fled the scene even though he was aware Plaintiff was injured and required aid.” (SAC at p. 10, ¶ 3.)3. “Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO was aware that Plaintiff was likely injured and required help and left the scene despite that fact.” (SAC at p. 10, ¶ 4.)4. “Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO immediately fled the scene after the collision knowing he had just struck Plaintiff with his vehicle and callously left Plaintiff in the parking lot. Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO knew that Plaintiff was injured and, rather than helping Plaintiff, he fled the scene, taking full advantage of Plaintiff’s weakened and injured condition.” (SAC at p. 10, ¶ 7.)5. “Plaintiff suffered separate and additional anxiety, grief and depression from Defendant leaving the scene after hitting him with his vehicle.” (SAC, pg. 10, ¶ 8.)The essential elements for intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct; (2) an intent to cause or a reckless disregard of the possibility of causing emotional distress; (3) severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate cause of the emotional distress by the outrageous conduct. (Symonds v. Mercury Sav. & Loan Ass’n (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1458,1468.) Outrageous conduct is conduct that “exceed[s] all bounds usually tolerated by decent society, of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress of a very serious kind.” (Ochoa v. Superior Court (1985) 39 Cal.3d 159, 166 fn. 5.) “Severe emotional distress means . . . emotional distress of such substantial quantity or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be expected to endure it.” (Fletcher v. Western Nat. Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376.) “[I]t is not enough that the defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.” (Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.) “Liability has been found only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.” (Ibid.) While there is no bright-line as to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at the demurrer stage. (Id., at 494.)A defendant negligently striking someone with a vehicle and then fleeing, while not appropriate or acceptable, is not inherently outrageous conduct beyond reasonable decency. Whether this act would rise to the level of outrageous conduct depends on the context and facts of the case. Fleeing the scene of an auto accident may be reprehensible and outrageous if the Plaintiff was apparently injured and required aid. (See Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679.) In Brooks, the court found that a hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact of the hit and run caused additional damages above and beyond the accident itself. (Ibid.) Brooks did not consider the issue of whether punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit and run. It did, however, hold that such an act only constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional damages above and beyond the damages caused by the accident that precedes the hit and run. (Ibid.) For example, if a plaintiff is struck and is seriously bleeding following the accident, the fact that the defendant hits and runs could cause additional damage due to loss of blood, death, etc. If, however, the accident causes immediate soft tissue damage, no amount of aid would reduce or minimize the future damages, and the act of hitting and running would not give rise to additional damages. If the act of hitting and running, in and of itself, does not give rise to a tort, then it logically follows that the act cannot give rise to a claim for punitive damages.Plaintiff’s new allegations in the SAC do not rise to “outrageous conduct” as required for a claim of IIED. While the SAC adds that Defendant Aidan fled the scene even though he was aware or should have been aware Plaintiff was injured and required aid, Plaintiff alleges in a conclusory fashion that Defendant Aidan’s fleeing the scene caused separate and additional harm to Plaintiff, adding only that Plaintiff “suffered separate and additional anxiety, grief and depression.” (SAC at p. 10, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff conclusory allegations that he suffered severe emotional distress do not rise to the level of “emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.” (SAC at p. 10, ¶¶ 9-10.) (See e.g., Pittman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047 [mere allegation that plaintiff suffered shame, humiliation and embarrassment without further factual explanation fails to state claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress]; see also Bogard v. Employers’ Casualty Company (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602, 617-618 [finding that the trial court did not err in sustaining the demurrer when appellants alleged they suffered severe emotional distress but failed to set forth factual allegations indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of Employers’ alleged outrageous conduct.])As Plaintiff has failed to cure the deficiencies in the complaint related to the IIED claim, the instant demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 4th cause of action.Motion to Strike DiscussionThe instant motion to strike seeks to strike the following portions of the SAC:1. Pg. 9, ¶ 2: “Defendant ADIAN NOLASCO, and each of them, was aware that the outset of the probable consequences of such conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences, an act or omission with conscious disregard for the safety of others. Conscious disregard of the safety of others constitutes malice. Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO, and each of them, was aware of the probable consequences of his conduct and he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”2. Pg. 9, ¶ 3: “Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled, pursuant to Civil Code 3294, to punitive damages in the sum to be ascertained at trial against Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO and each of them, in doing the things herein, ratified and acknowledged the acts of Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO.”3. Pg. 9, ¶ 4: “A driver is liable for injuries caused by driving with an intent to cause injury, or, even without an intent to injure, with either (a) knowledge that serious injury is a probable result or (b) a wanton and reckless disregard of the possible consequences of driving in a particular manner.” (Reuther v. Viall (1965) 62 Cal.2d 470, 475.)”4. Pg. 10, ¶ 2: “Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO failed to stop and provide his current residence address and the registration number of the vehicle he was driving. In addition, Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO failed to stop and render reasonable assistance, including transporting, or making arrangements for transporting, Plaintiff to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment as it was apparent that treatment was necessary, pursuant to California Civil Code § 3294.”5. Pg. 10, ¶ 11: “Defendant AIDAN NOLASCO’s outrageous, malicious, and oppressive and despicable conduct as set forth above was intended to cause injury to the Plaintiff and subjected the Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship with a willful and conscious disregard for the Plaintiff’s rights and safety such that Defendant is subject to punitive damages as set forth in California Civil Code § 3294.”As discussed above, Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient allegations to warrant a claim for punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant Aidan’s instant motion to strike the allegations related to punitive damages on Pg. 9, ¶¶ 2-4 of the SAC is granted. On light of the Court’s ruling on the Demurrer to the 4th Cause of Action Defendant’s Motion to Strike Pg. 10, ¶ ¶ 2, 11 is moot. Brooks, supra, 40 Cal.2d at 679 [finding that a hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact of the hit and run caused additional damages above and beyond the accident itself] and distinguishes the instant matter from Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, Peterson v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 147, and Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82 [cases allowing punitive damages where the plaintiff was driving under the influence with conduct showing conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others].Defendant Aidan to file an answer within 15 days of the date of this ruling.