  Case Number:  20STCV46605    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
ALANNA
  FOUTZ, an individual, JOHN BASSETT, an individual, MARIA KCKENNA, an
  individual, JOSH PETKER, an individual, LAUREN MINTZER, an individual, GREG
  CLARK, and EDWARD BARAN PIECHOCKI, an individual,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
AFTON
  PROPERTIES, INC., a California Corporation; HAROLD HERSKOWITZ, an individual;
  MY MANAGEMENT CO, INC., a California Corporation; and Does 1 through 80,
  inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  20STCV46605
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND TO FILE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
 
Action
  Filed:  12/7/20
Trial
  Date:  10/13/25
 
 



 
Hearing date:              October 23, 2024
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs
Alanna Foutz, John Bassett, Maria KcKenna, Josh Petker, Lauren Mintzer, Greg
Clark and Ed Baran
Responding Party:      Defendants
Afton Properties, Inc., Harold Herskowitz and My Management Co., Inc.
 
Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint
 
The court has
considered the moving and opposition papers. No reply was received.
            The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint.
 
Background
            On
December 7, 2020, Plaintiffs Alanna Foutz, John Bassett, Maria McKenna, Josh
Petker, Lauren Mintzer, Greg Clark and Ed Baran (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Afton Properties, Inc., Harold Herskowitz and Does
1 through 60 alleging six causes of action related to asbestos exposure in
Plaintiffs’ apartment residences, including: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability; (2) Nuisance; (3) Trespass; (4) Breach of Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (6) Breach of
Contract.
On September 20,
2022, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a First Amended
Complaint (FAC), and on September 29, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a FAC adding an
additional named defendant, My Management Co., Inc., and two additional causes
of action for Negligence and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. According
to the FAC, Plaintiffs reside in an apartment complex located at 360 N. Orange
Grove Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90036 (“Premises”) owned and managed by Defendants with
open cavities in their walls, exposed electrical wires, inoperable plumbing,
inoperable heating and gas leaks. In attempting to repair the furnaces,
Defendants created multiple instances of friable asbestos throughout the
apartment complex without notifying Plaintiffs, exposing Plaintiffs to the hazardous
material.
On July 20,
2023, Defendants Afton Properties, Inc. and Harold Herskowitz filed an Answer
to Plaintiffs’ FAC.
On August 11,
2023, Defendant My Management Co., Inc. filed an Answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC and
Cross-Complaint against Defendant Harold Herskowitz with seven causes of action
for: (1) Express Indemnity; (2) Implied Indemnity; (3) Breach of Contract; (4)
Apportionment of Fault; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Contribution; and (7)
Negligence.
On May 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Leave to Amend to File a Second Amended
Complaint. Defendants filed an opposition.
 
Legal
Standard
The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. (CCP
§§ 473, 576.) Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between
the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is generally liberally granted. (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity
of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds
for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1048.)
The application for leave to amend should
be made as soon as the need to amend is discovered. (See Cal. Rules of Court
(CRC), rule 3.1324(b)(3)-(4) [separate declaration accompanying the motion must
specify when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier].) The closer the trial
date, the stronger the showing required for leave to amend. (See Duchrow v. Forrest (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 1359, 1377-78.)  If the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
Discussion
            Plaintiffs
Alanna Foutz, John Bassett, Maria KcKenna, Josh Petker, Lauren Mintzer, Greg
Clark and Ed Baran move for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). Plaintiffs
seek to add two DOE named defendants AQHI Inc. and ACR Heating & Cooling,
and allege a new, ninth cause of action for Tenant Harassment against
Defendants. Plaintiffs contend leave is warranted because they newly learned the
specific companies that were hired to carry out the negligent asbestos-related
work and additional facts supporting harassment claims.
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ motion
should be denied because (1) Plaintiffs’ motion for leave is unreasonably late
and (2) Defendants will be prejudiced.
            First,
Plaintiffs complied with CRC, rule 3.1324(a). Plaintiff includes a copy of the
Proposed SAC with highlighted text indicating the proposed amendments. (Exhibit
1.) Plaintiff also stated the scope of the proposed amendments pursuant to CRC,
rule 3.1324(a)(3). (Mot. 5:3-9.)
            As
to Defendant’s first argument, the court finds it has no merit. California
Rules of Court, rules 3.1324(b)(3)–(4) state, in relevant part: “A separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify . . . [w] hen
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and . . .
[t]he reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” Plaintiffs’
counsel clearly states in his declaration when Plaintiffs discovered the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations: “During the February 2024 depositions
of Harold Herskowitz and the PMK of My Management, Plaintiffs learned the
specific companies that were hired to carry out the negligent asbestos related
work, as well as additional facts supporting harassment/retaliation claims against
Harold and My Management, via the City of Los Angeles Anti-Tenant Harassment
Ordinance.” (Betty Decl., ¶ 5.) Additionally, Plaintiffs’ counsel attests by declaration
that the request for amendment was not made earlier because until Defendants’
depositions, Plaintiffs were “unaware of the extent Defendants Harold and My
Management blamed the newly named defendants for the asbestos removal, as well
as additional facts that came to light during the depositions establishing
facts in violation of the [anti-harassment ordinance].” (Betty Decl., ¶ 6.) The
court thus finds Plaintiffs’ have sufficiently stated when Plaintiffs
discovered the facts giving rise to the amended allegations and why the request
for amendment was not made sooner, pursuant to CRC 3.1324(b)(3)–(4).
As to Defendants’
second argument, the court finds Defendants fail to meet their burden in
establishing that they will be prejudiced. Trial has been scheduled for October
13, 2025, giving the parties nearly a year to prepare. Defendant does not show
that the amendments will substantially delay trial, resulting in the loss of
critical evidence. Additionally, Defendant provides no evidence demonstrating
that the amendments will significantly increase the burden of discovery. The
court finds that granting leave to amend will not significantly prejudice
Defendant and that the liberal policy of resolving actions on the merits
supports doing so. However, based on the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs should
cure the defects discussed above in this motion.
The court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
October 23, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 