  Case Number:  23AHCV01193    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SUMAYA AASI, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01193
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
   FOR PRODUCTION SET ONE FROM AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO. 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   25, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiffs Sumaya Aasi and Huma Aasi
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for an order compelling further responses
from defendant American Honda Motor Co. (“Defendant”) to Requests for
Production (“RFP”) Set One, Nos. 30, 32-33, 37, and 44. The case arises from
Plaintiffs’ purchase of a new 2022 Honda Accord Hybrid (“Subject Vehicle”) from
Honda of Pasadena, an authorized repair facility, on September 8, 2022.
(Compl., ¶ 84.)  
Plaintiffs allege that on or about
November 2, 2022, they complained to Honda of Pasadena that “the Subject
Vehicle’s brake alert system did not work as it should and prompts alerts even
when there is no vehicle around, [] the Subject Vehicle’s keep lane assistance
system [sic] did not work and the systems pulls [sic] away from the lane, and []
the tires feel too low even after filling up with air.” (Compl., ¶ 90.) 
Then, on or around December 8, 2022,
Plaintiffs delivered the Subject Vehicle to Honda of Pasadena for repair.
Plaintiffs complained “that the Subject Vehicle will brake by itself while
driving, that the lane departure will give false warnings when the Subject
Vehicle is not coming out of its lane; that the TPMS light will always come
back on even after the tire pressure is adjusted; that the battery light will
come on when the car is driving at times; that while driving in a 35 MPH zone
the traffic sign recognition system displayed the speed limit as 85 MPH; and
that the Subject Vehicle was slow to charge while driving.” (Compl., ¶ 91.) 
On or around February 23, 2023,
Plaintiffs again delivered the Subject Vehicle to Honda of Pasadena for repair.
Plaintiffs assert “that the brake detection system alerts Plaintiffs to brake
when driving even when there is nothing in front, that the Subject Vehicle’s
brakes do not feel as if the car is going to brake and feel weak, that the
Subject Vehicle prompts warning lights when EV mode is active, prompts ‘low charge’,
‘EV mode cancelled’, ‘accelerate hard, that the gauge cluster and the
infotainment system turn off while driving, and the tire light is persistent
and does not turn off when calibrating the TPMS.” (Compl., ¶ 92.) 
The five RFPs at issue in this motion
use two defined terms. The first term, “SENSING SYSTEM” is defined as: 
the computerized driver-assistance
safety system in 2022 Honda ACCORD HYBRID vehicles that relies in part on radar
sensor and imaging technology mounted on the vehicle, and which includes but is
not limited to the autonomous braking system called “Collision Mitigation
Braking System” (“CMBS,” which may include the Forward Collision Warning
[“FCW”] feature); and the “Road Departure Mitigation” system (“RDM,” which may
include the Lane Departure Warning [“LDW”] feature); all of which are intended
to avoid traffic collisions by detecting vehicle speed and position relative to
other vehicles or objects, and automatically deploying brakes and other control
systems. 
 
The second term, “SENSING DEFECT”, is defined as: 
such quality, design, engineering,
materials, software, programming, and/or manufacturing problems or defects that
impede the SENSING SYSTEM’s ability to reliably and accurately detect and
respond to conditions on the roadway and which result in symptoms and
malfunctions including: (1) numerous warning messages
intermittently appearing on the vehicle’s instrument cluster alerting drivers
to a problem inappropriately or falsely, (2) autonomous fluctuation of the
vehicle’s highway speed without warning when adaptive cruise control is set,
(3) a vehicle alert instructing drivers to apply brakes immediately even though
no obstruction is present, (4) the vehicle independently applying brakes even
though no obstruction is present, (5) vehicle alerts inaccurately alerting
drivers that the vehicle is not driving within road lane markings, (6) the
vehicle autonomously steering itself outside the lane of travel, and other
similar concerns.   
 

          Plaintiffs’ RFP
Nos. 33 and 37 seek documents evidencing “quality problems identified by [Defendant]
in the SENSING SYSTEM used in 2018 Honda Accord Hybrid vehicles” and any agendas
or minutes of Defendant’s board of directors or committee meetings at which
“any quality concerns of the SENSING SYSTEM in 2022 Honda Accord Hybrid vehicles
were addressed or discussed.” (Sep. Statement, pp. 14, 19.) 
Plaintiffs argue that these documents
are relevant to the question of the willfulness of Defendant’s refusal to
repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle and is also relevant to the issue of
civil penalties. Defendant objected on the grounds that the RFPs were vague
ambiguous, overly broad, and seeking information not relevant to the subject
matter of the litigation and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Defendant specifically objected to the use of the terms
“SENSING SYSTEM”, “quality problems” and the extent that Plaintiffs seek
documents regarding symptoms which the Subject Vehicle did not exhibit or that
Plaintiffs did not complain of more than once. Defendant also objected on the
grounds that the RFPs seek confidential, commercially sensitive, and
proprietary information or trade secrets. 
          Defendants’
objections have some merit. The term “quality problems” is too vague and not
specific as to any problems or issues with the Subject Vehicle, let alone those
which were identified by Plaintiffs and complained of more than once. Defendant
points out that “actionable” symptoms are those which it had multiple attempts
to repair. (Silvio v. Ford Motor Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1207
[“The [lemon law] statute does not require the manufacturer to make restitution
or replace a vehicle if it has had only one opportunity to repair that
vehicle.”]) Plaintiffs make no effort to address this argument in their reply
brief or even clarify the particular issues they meant to include so that the
motion could be granted in part. Therefore, the motion is DENIED as to RFP Nos.
33 and 37. 
          Similar deficiencies
exist with respect to Plaintiffs’ RFP Nos. 30, 32, and 44. RFP No. 30 requests
“[a]ll surveys, reports, summaries, and other DOCUMENTS in which owners of 2022
Honda Accord Hybrid vehicles have reported to [Defendant] any HONDA SENSING
DEFECTS.” RFP No. 32 requests all documents which “evidence or describe the
numbers of owners of 2022 Honda ACCORD HYBRID vehicles who have complained of
any of the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which the SUBJECT
VEHICLE was presented.” RFP No. 44 requests all documents “evidencing
complaints by owners of 2022 Honda Accord Hybrid vehicles regarding any of the
complaints for which the SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented for repair.”
          As an initial
matter, information regarding complaints of other 2022 Honda Accord Hybrid
vehicles which exhibit the same symptoms as Plaintiffs’ Subject Vehicle is
relevant to determining Defendants’ knowledge of a defect in Plaintiffs’
Subject Vehicle and whether it acted “willfully” for purposes of assessing a
civil penalty. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Company (2014) 217 Cal.App.4th 138,
154.) However, the term “SENSING DEFECT” consists of 6 different symptoms as
well as a catch-all category for “similar concerns.” Thus, this expansive
definition causes the RFPs to encompass issues which were not identified in
Plaintiffs’ complaint, such as complaints about the cruise control system, let
alone those conditions which Plaintiffs allegedly presented at least twice to
Defendant for repair. Even Plaintiffs’ “meet and confer letter” regurgitates
the Subject Vehicle’s repair orders and does not narrow down (or articulate)
the specific conditions and symptoms which form the basis of their claim. (Ex.
F, p. 3.) The Court also notes that the Complaint is so poorly drafted that it
would even be difficult for Defendant to consult those allegations to independently
determine the parameters of Plaintiffs’ requests (not that Defendant has the
responsibility of ascertaining Plaintiffs’ contentions in this litigation when
responding to Plaintiffs’ discovery). 
          Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED in its entirety. Plaintiffs’ request
for sanctions is DENIED. Defendant’s request for sanctions is GRANTED and
imposed against Plaintiffs and attorney of record, jointly and severally, in
the reduced amount of $900, consisting of 3 hours at a blended rate of $300. The
Court does not award Defendant its request for a filing fee because there is no
authority that requires a party opposing a motion to pay a filing fee. 
          Defendant to
give notice. 
Dated this 25th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 