  Case Number:  21STCV40738    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



THE
  JEFFREY S. MARKS SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
HARB
  FAMILY TRUST, et al. 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  21STCV40738  
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 24, 2024



                                                                                                              
 
Defendant Fusion’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
On 11/4/2021, the Jeffrey S. Marks Separate Property Trust
established under the Jeffery and Loretta Marks Family Trust, Jeffrey S. Mark
as trustee, the Mae Durant family Trust, and South Main Street Properties, LLC
(collectively, Plaintiffs) initiated this action.
 
            On 9/5/2023, Plaintiffs filed a
verified second amended complaint (SAC) against the Harb Family Trust dated
11/1/1996, the Irrevocable Trust of Chou Bo Chan Chiu (1997) for the benefit of
Samson Chiu, and Fusion Investments, LLC (Fusion) alleging: (1) declaratory
relief; (2) quiet title and injunctive relief; and (2) abandonment of easement.

 
Now, Fusion demurs to Plaintiffs’ SAC.
 
Discussion

 
            Fusion argues that Plaintiffs have
not alleged facts to show they have standing, that the FAC is unintelligible
and uncertain, and that Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to
state a claim. 
 
This action arises out of the alleged unauthorized and unlawful use
of a private alleyway located between 120 E. 33rd Street Los Angeles, CA 90011
and 3310 S. Main Street Los Angeles, CA 90007 (the Alley.) Plaintiffs seek “an
order deeming the easement of the portion of the Alley to the south of the
Trusts’ property to be abandoned.” (SAC, Exh. A-2.)
 
            After review, the Court agrees with
Fusion that Plaintiffs have failed to state a claim.
 
            First, there is the difference
between an indenture and an easement. However, the Court need not even
determine this issue, given that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts
even accepting that it is an easement. 
 
Abandonment requires that “the owner stops using it with the
intention of abandoning the right to use it in the future.” (6 Cal. Real Est. §
15:79 (4th ed.).) Civil Code section 887.050 requires: (1) there must be a
complete lack of use of the easement for the past twenty years; and (2) the
easement should not be recorded. (Civ. Code § 887.050, subd. (a)(1), (a)(3).)
Here, Plaintiffs’ own SAC alleges that the entire alley was, and is, being
used, including the southern portion. (See, e.g., SAC, ¶ 27 [“The
portion of the Alley to the south of the boiler was, however, accessible to and
used by the predecessors-in-interest of the LLC, as they were able to access it
by using land which they owned on the western side of the Alley to go around
the area blocked by the boiler.”].) As such, the Court agrees that Plaintiffs
have not alleged facts which could show abandonment,  given that their own allegations do indicate
use of the southern portion within the last 20 years, and their claim is based
on a written indenture and thus was recorded.
 
            Given that the determination of
abandonment underlies all of Plaintiffs’ claims, this is fatal to each cause of
action. Plaintiffs will be afforded one more opportunity to amend to allege
sufficient facts to state a claim. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Fusion’s
demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
January    , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 