 Case Number:  23STCV12949    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ADAN IMAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
THE BUREAU OF SANITATION, CITY OF LOS
  ANGELES, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV12949  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 22, 2024




 
 
            The
City’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the twelfth cause
of action.
            
The City’s motion to strike is
DENIED IN PART, GRANTED IN PART: 
 
-         
The motion is DENIED as to the 2017 failure
to promote allegations. 
 
-         
The motion is GRANTED, WITH 10 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND, as to the allegations concerning the 2017 Complaint. 
 
-         
The motion is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as
to the punitive damages prayer against the City and the first, third, fourth,
sixth, seventh, ninth, and tenth cause of action against Individual Defendants.

 
            On
6/7/2023, Plaintiff Adan Iman (Plaintiff) filed suit against the Bureau of
Sanitation, City of Los Angeles, Rowena Lau, Eva Sung, Lisa Mowery, and Enrique
Zaldivar, alleging: (1) discrimination based on race; (2) harassment based on
race; (3) retaliation based on race; (4) discrimination based on age; (5)
harassment based on age; (6) retaliation based on age; (7) discrimination based
on religion; (8) harassment based on religion; (9) retaliation based on
religion; (10) failure to prevent; (11) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; and (12) wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
 
            Now,
Defendant City of Los Angeles (City) demurs to the twelfth cause of action.
 
            Plaintiff
did not oppose the demurrer. Plaintiff did oppose the motion to strike. 
 
Discussion 
 
            The City
argues that Plaintiff cannot maintain a claim for wrongful termination against
it because public entities cannot be held liable for this non-statutory cause
of action.
 
It is established law in California
that “[e]xcept as provided by statute: a public entity is not liable for an
injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Cal. Gov. Code § 815(a)).
This provision “abolishes all common law or judicially declared forms of
liability for public entities, except for such liability as may be required by
the state or federal constitution.” (Cal. Gov. Code § 815, Editors’ Notes)
 
Based on this language, the Court
in Palmer v. Regents of Univ. of California found that a wrongful
termination claim (otherwise known as a Tameny claim) could not be
properly asserted against the Regents because it “is a common law, judicially
created tort … and not authorized by statute…” The California Supreme Court affirmed
this assertion, ruling that they agree “with the Palmer court that
section 815 [of the California Government Code] bars Tameny actions
against public entities.” (Miklosy v. Regents of Univ. of California
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 900)
 
Similarly, as for the individual defendants,
the California Supreme Court held that its decision that “individual
supervisors may not be sued under the FEHA applies likewise to [wrongful
termination in violation of public policy].” (Reno v. Baird (1998) 18
Cal.4th 640, 663). Indeed, the Court held that “[b]ecause Plaintiff could not
sue [Defendant] Baird as an individual supervisor under the FEHA, she may not
sue her individually for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy.” (Id.
at 664; see also Jacobs v. Universal Development Corp. (1996) 53
Cal.App.4th 692, 704 [“Only an employer can be liable for tortious discharge,
and fellow employees cannot be held accountable for tortious discharge on a
conspiracy theory.”].)
 
Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion, and thus is considered to have conceded to the merits. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the City’s
demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend, as to the twelfth cause of
action. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            In its
motion to strike, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is deficient
because it seeks redress for causes of action barred against public entities
and/or against the individually named defendants.
 
Arguments as to whether or not
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to support a claim are properly raised
in demurrer, not motions to strike. For example, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s allegations related to Plaintiff’s 2017 Complaint against his
supervisor should be stricken because they are time-barred. It is unclear why
Defendant chose to include these arguments in the motion to strike, rather than
the demurrer. 
 
            However, in
the interest of judicial economy, and given that Plaintiff did not object in
opposition, the Court still considers the arguments raised by the City. 
 
            The City
argues that: (1) Plaintiff’s claims arising out conduct that took place in 2017
are time-barred; (2) Plaintiff cannot maintain a prayer for punitive damages
against a public entity; (3) Plaintiff cannot hold the individual defendants
liable under the first, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, ninth, and tenth cause
of action
 
            As for the
first contention, there is a three-year statute of limitations for FEHA claims.
(Cal. Gov. Code § 12960(e)(5); CACI 2508) Plaintiff’s claims arise, in part, on
allegation that, the City failed to promote him based on his race, age, and
religion in July 2017. The City argues that Plaintiff cannot rely on the
continuing violation doctrine because failure to promote is a discrete act
which constitutes a separate actionable unlawful employment practice, citing
the U.S. Supreme Court case National R.R. Passenger Corp. v. Morgan
(2002) 536 U.S. 101, 114 in support. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees only in part. 
 
            As for the
2017 failure to promote, Defendants interviewed Plaintiff in June 2017 and
informed him that he would not be hired for the Senior Management Analyst
position the following month. While the Court understands the City’s contention
that this was a single, discreet act that began in June 2017 and ended in July
2017, Plaintiff alleges that this conduct was part of a larger pattern of
discrimination, retaliation, and harassment based on his age, race, and
religion, that continued until his forced retirement in June 2021. While the
City may contend that the allegations outside the failure to promote are
“relatively innocuous” this is not properly decided at the pleading stage. 
 
As such, the failure to promote
based on those characteristics cannot be said, as a matter of law, not to be
part of an ongoing and continuing violation. Notably, the City’s analysis does
not include any analogous California caselaw where Courts found similar
allegations of failure to promote to be discrete and thus time-barred. There is
nothing in Morgan that forecloses the application of the continuing
violation doctrine.
 
            However, the
Court agrees that the portion of Plaintiff’s claim based on his 2017 Complaint
against his Supervisors is time-barred. This is because, unlike with the
failure to promote, Plaintiff filed a DFEH complaint in April 2019 alleging
retaliation based on his 2017 Complaint. 
The DFEH then investigated Plaintiff’s belief that he was “denied a
transfer to another division in retaliation for filing a discrimination
complaint” against his supervisors. (RJN, Ex. B, p. 3). While Plaintiff does
not allege a failure to transfer as retaliation in the Complaint at issue in
this matter, Exhibit B shows that retaliation pursuant to Plaintiff’s 2017 complaint
against his supervisors was directly at issue in Plaintiff’s 2019 DFEH
Complaint. (See e.g. Closure Letter, Exh. B., “You believe you were
denied a transfer to another division in retaliation for filling a
discrimination complaint against (name redacted) and (name redacted).  On July 24, 2017, you filled a discrimination
complaint against your direct supervisors, for denying you a promotion.”)
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff actually obtained a DFEH Right to Sue Notice on April 6, 2020, which
explained that Plaintiff had one year from April 6, 2020 to file a civil suit
related to the 2017 retaliation claims as outlined in California statute under
Government Code section 12960(f)(1)(B). Plaintiff had until April 6, 2021 to
file this lawsuit but instead waited until June 2023. As a result, the Court
agrees that it appears, from the face of the Complaint, that Plaintiff has lost
his opportunity to litigate the claims contained in his 2019 DFEH Complaint. (See
Williams v. Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 941, 949
[holding FEHA’s one-year deadline to file suit after receiving a right to sue
notice is “a condition on a substantive right rather than a procedural
limitation period for commencement of an action” and, as such “they cause the
right which previously arose and on which a suit could have been maintained, to
expire]). Plaintiff will be afforded one opportunity of leave to amend to
allege facts which could show the claim is not time-barred. 
 
            As for the
second contention, the City argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a claim for
punitive damages against the City because it is fundamental that “a public
entity is not liable for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil Code
or other damages imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant.” (Cal. Gov. Code § 818; see also Cal. Gov. Code §
825). The Court agrees. 
 
            Finally, as
for the third contention, the Court also agrees. While FEHA allows for
assignment of liability to individual employees for harassment, it does not
allow this for discrimination or retaliation. Moreover, language in FEHA makes
clear that it is an “unlawful employment practice for an employer to
fail to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring. (Cal. Gov. Code § 12940(k) [emphasis added]); see
also CACI 2527 [“To establish this claim, Plaintiff must prove all of the
following: (1) that Plaintiff was an employee of Defendant.]). Here, none of
the individually named defendants were Plaintiff’s “employer” and Plaintiff
does not so allege. As such, Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show
that the individual defendants could be liable for failure to prevent. 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the City’s motion to strike is denied in part, granted in part. The
City’s motion is denied as to the 2017 failure to promote allegations. The
City’s motion is granted, with 10 days leave to amend, as to the allegations
concerning the 2017 Complaint. The city’s motion is granted, without leave to
amend, as to the punitive damages prayer against the City and as to the first,
third, fourth, sixth, seventh, ninth, and tenth cause of action against individual
defendants.
            
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 