 Case Number:  24STCP00007    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
6, 2024                                                TRIAL
DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         Estate Research Associates v. Controller of the State of
California
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP00007
 





















 
MOTION
FOR ORDER DETERMINING ENTITLEMENT TO ESCHEATED PROPERTY AND ORDERING PAYMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Estate Research Associates
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On January 2, 2024, Petitioner Estate Research Associates
filed a petition (the “Petition”) to establish a claim to escheated
property.  Petitioner is a private investigator who entered into a
contract with Christine Martinez (“Martinez”) wherein Martinez agreed to assign
Petitioner 35 percent of her interest in funds being held by the California
State Controller for the benefit of Martinez’s maternal first half cousin once
removed, Mary Alvidrez (“Alvidrez”).  
 
On January 25, 2024, Petitioner filed Proof of Service
showing the Office of the Attorney General and the California State Controller
were served with the Petition and notice of the hearing for this Petition. 
 
On February 14, 2024, the California State Controller sent a
letter addressed to this court stating it does not object to the Petition.  
 
II.        DISCUSSION
& LEGAL STANDARD
 
When a person dies without a will and without heirs at law,
as defined by the state laws of intestate succession, all of the unclaimed
portion of the estate of the deceased escheats to the state on the date of the
decedent's death, subject to creditor’s claims and the costs of estate
administration.  (Prob. Code, §§
11900-11904.)  Upon the expiration of five years after the entry of
judgment in any proceeding filed pursuant to the Unclaimed Property Law, the
completion of the notice period in an escheat action filed pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (CCP) section 1415 (money or personal property), or a decree of
distribution of estate assets to the state pursuant to the Probate Code, the
property covered by that proceeding or action permanently escheats to the
state.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1430, subd. (a).)  The purpose of
this five-year period is to protect previously unknown heirs from having the
property permanently escheat to the state and to allow them time to make a
claim to the state for the property.  (Estate of McGuigan (2000) 83
Cal. App. 4th 639, 645.) 
 
During the five-year period, a person may file a petition
showing his claim or right to the money or other property, or the proceeds
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1355.)  CCP section 1355 sets out the
requirements for a petition filed to claim an escheated estate, including the
presentation of detailed information on the identities and whereabouts of all
potential heirs of the decedent or an express statement why the petitioners are
unable to set forth any particular information called for.  (Estate of
Supeck (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 360, 365-66.)  If it is determined that a
person is entitled to the money or other property or the proceeds thereof, the
court must order the property to be delivered to him.  (Id. at p. 366.) 
 
At least 20 days before the hearing of the petition, a copy
of the petition and notice of hearing must be served on the Attorney General
and on the Controller, and the Attorney General may answer the same at his
discretion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1355.) 
 
Here, the court finds that the Petition sets forth the basis
for Martinez’s entitlement to Alvidrez’s property and has provided the Attorney
General and Controller with the requisite notice.  (See Elissiry Decl., Exs. 1-17; 1/25/24 Proof
of Service.)  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the unopposed Petition is GRANTED.  
 
Petitioner to give notice. 

 
Dated:   March 6, 2024                                   




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 
 