  Case Number:  22STCV07737    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
6, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE:  November 4, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Darrylene Corniel,
et al., v. Live Nation Worldwide, Inc, et. al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV07737
 





















 
APPLICATION
FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
MOTION
TO CHALLENGE THE GOOD FAITH OF A SETTLEMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
CI Security Specialist, Inc.  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants,
NPB Global Consulting Group, Inc.,  
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDRUAL BACKGROUND
 
            This is a wrongful
death case.  On December 18, 2021, Darrell
Caldwell (AKA Drakeo the Ruler)(Mr. Caldwell or “Decedent”) was stabbed backstage
at the “Once Upon A Time in LA” music festival (“Music Festival”).  Mr. Caldwell was 28 years old, and a hip hop
recording artist.  He was stabbed and
killed moments before going on stage.  
 
            In their First Amended Complaint Plaintiffs
Darrylene Corniel (Decedent’s mother) and the Estate of Darrell Caldwell, by
and through its Personal Representative Darrylene Corniel (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
allege: “Darrell died at the hands of a violent mob that was allowed into what
should have been a protected and secured area backstage at the Music
Festival.  The violent mob attacked
Darrell as he proceeded through the backstage area of the performer’s stage on
the Premises, where he was scheduled to perform just minutes following this
violent attack. This was a backstage area that was supposed to be secure and
safe. It was not. Instead, due to Defendants’ negligence and total lack of
care, a violent mob was allowed in.” (FAC ¶¶ 2, 3.)  Plaintiffs sued Settling Defendant CI Security Specialist (“CISS”), along with numerous other security
companies, for failing to keep the backstage area secure and safe. 
 
            On or about March 2, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed the instant action, and filed a First Amended Complaint on or about May
18, 2022, alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence (Wrongful Death); (2)
Negligence (Survival Action); (3) Premises Liability (Wrongful Death); (4)
Premises Liability (Survival Action); (5) Negligent
Hiring/Retention/Supervision Training (Wrongful Death); and (6) Negligent
Hiring/Retention/Supervision Training (Survival Action) against Defendants.  
 
            On January
29, 2024, CISS filed a motion for determination of a good faith settlement. 
 
             On February 22, 2024, Defendants LAFC Stadium Co, LLC
(erroneously sued and served as LAFC Stadium Co, LLC), Live Nation Worldwide,
Inc. and C3 Presents, LLC, filed an opposition to CISS’s Motion.   On the same day, Defendant NPB Global
Consulting Group, Inc. filed its opposition.[1]  Defendant NPB Companies, Inc. filed a joinder in
NPB Global’s opposition. (Opposing parties are hereinafter collectively
referred to as Non-Settling Defendants.) 
 
            On February
28, 2024, CISS filed its replies to the Non-Settling Defendants’ Oppositions. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Under section
877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure,[2] “[a] determination by the
court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor . . .
for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity,
based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (§ 877.6, subd. (c).)  Additionally, a determination that a
settlement was made in good faith will reduce the claims against the
non-settling defendants by the amount specified in the settlement agreement.  (§ 877.6, subd. (a).)  “The party asserting the lack of good faith
has the burden of proof on that issue.” 
(§ 877.6, subd. (d).)  
 
Section 877.6
requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements made under its aegis
to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s dual
objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the parties
at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of
settlement).  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).)  Good faith settlements further two sometimes
competing policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs among the parties at
fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements.¿ (Erreca’s v. Superior
Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1487.)¿¿ The evaluation of whether a
settlement was made in good faith is¿required to “be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”¿ (Tech-Bilt, supra,
38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) ¿
In Tech-Bilt,
the California Supreme Court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement was made in good faith.  The Tech-Bilt factors
are: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants.  (Id.
at pp. 498-501.)  
             In City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 (Grand
Terrace) , the Court of Appeal provided the following guidance regarding a
good faith settlement determination:¿¿ 
 
“If the good faith settlement is contested,
section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule for the
hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the
contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the settlor of the
settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to the
nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good faith. If
contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate
the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.” 
 
(City of Grand Terrace, 192 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 1261-62.)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Application of the Tech-Bilt Factors



1.     
Rough Approximation of Plaintiff’s Total Recovery And
The Settlor’s
Proportionate
Liability. 
 
The first Tech-Bilt
factor consists of two parts – a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total
recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability.  When approximating a plaintiff’s total
recovery or the settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should .
. . not yearn for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.  Because the application of section 877.6 requires
an educated guess as to what may occur should the case go to trial, all that
can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive conclusion.”  (North County Contractor’s Assn. v.
Touchstone Ins. Services (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090 (hereafter, North
County).)  “The ultimate determinant of good faith is whether the
settlement is grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time
of the settlement would estimate the settlor’s liability to be.” (City of
Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1262.)  
 
Even though “an
offer of settlement must bear some relationship to one’s proportionate
liability, bad faith is not ‘established by a showing that a settling defendant
paid less than his theoretical proportionate or fair share.’  [Citation.]” 
(North County, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p.1090.)  “Such a rule would unduly discourage
settlements” and “convert the pretrial settlement approval procedure into a
full-scale mini-trial.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)  Rather,
in order to meet the proportionality requirement, “all that is necessary is
that there be a ‘rough approximation’ between a settling tortfeasor’s offer of
settlement and his proportionate liability. 
[Citation.]”  (North County,
supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1090-91.)  In determining whether the settling
defendant’s settlement figure is “within the ballpark” of his fair share of
liability, the Court may rely on “the judge’s personal experience” and the
experience of “experts in the field.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 500.)

            Additionally, “a court not
only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s liability to the plaintiff, but it must
also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged
to be responsible for the same injury. 
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. 
[Citation.]”  (TSI Seismic
Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.) [3]

            Under the terms of the
settlement, Plaintiffs agree to dismiss CISS in exchange for payment of $86,042.52,
which is the balance of CISS' $100,000 burning limits policy.  In exchange, Plaintiffs will release any and
all claims that arise out of or relate to Plaintiffs' complaint as to CISS.  
 
CISS argues it has
little to no liability because the scope of its responsibility at the Performance
was to “simply perform access control at designated locations by” Defendant
C3.  (Mot. at p.10.)  CISS argues it did not provide security to
the perimeter of the festival and did not perform searches for weapons.  Non-Settling Defendants challenge CISS’s severance
of “access control” from security responsibility.  Non-Settling Defendants succeed.  Non-Settling Defendants argue CISS was
responsible for security and searches where the incident occurred and in the
surrounding area, and CISS was out of compliance with its security services
agreement.  The Non-Settling Defendants
properly call into question CISS’s claim that it has no liability.  Non-Settling Defendants meet their burden to
demonstrate CISS may have liability because CISS had some responsibility for
security in the area where the stabbing occurred.  For example, not only did CISS post guards and
have roaming security guards at the Music Festival, CISS’s security guards were
assigned to the Artist Search/Parking area in positions C43-C49 near the
location where the incident occurred. (Williams Decl., at ¶ 7; Beattle Decl., at
¶ 5.)[4]  CISS does not present substantial evidence
that it has no liability.[5] 
 
Moreover, insurance
coverage issues persist. Non-Settling Defendants advance two arguments: 1) CISS
may have claims against its insurance companies and/or 2) CISS failed to
procure the required coverage.  Either
way, there may be more assets available from the insurance companies or CISS
may have more exposure for failing to procure the required insurance amounts. 
 
Because CISS’s
argument that it has no liability whatsoever fails, CISS must present a reasonable
estimate of Plaintiffs’ total recovery in order for the court to evaluate the
appropriateness of the settlement.  But CISS
does not present an approximate figure of the Plaintiffs’ total recovery.  While rough figures were presented regarding economic
damages, CISS does not present any information regarding the total recovery,
including non-economic damages. [6]  NPB Global estimates that Plaintiffs will seek
damages in the tens of millions of dollars, “if not more.” (NPB Global, Opp. at
p. 3)[7]  In a wrongful death case such as this, the
figures may well exceed millions.  (See Mattco
Forge, Inc v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal. App.4th
1337, 1351[“In view of the absence of any substantial evidence to show the
$250,000 value of the guarantee was within the reasonable range of Helmer &
Neff’s proportionate liability, Young met its burden in attacking the
settlement as lacking good faith”].)       
 
The Non-Settling
Defendants have met their burden to show CISS’s settlement figure is “not
within the ballpark.”  In this wrongful
death action with significant financial exposure, CISS liability for failing to
properly perform security control may far exceed the settlement amount. CISS’s
liability for indemnity to Non-Settling Defendants may also be grossly
disproportionate to the settlement amount. The first Tech-Bilt factor
weighs heavily against CISS’s good faith settlement. 
 
2. The Amount Paid
In Settlement.


CISS will pay $86,042.52.  
 
3. The Allocation Of Settlement Proceeds Among
Plaintiffs. 
            
The allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs is only relevant if there is more than one
plaintiff.  (See Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
939, 968 (Cahill).)  Here, there are two plaintiffs.  The amount will be divided equally between
Decedent’s mother and the Estate.  CISS
gave notice to any other objecting parties. 
This factor weighs in favor of the good faith settlement.

            
4.  A
Recognition That A Settlor Should Pay Less In Settlement Than He Would If   
     He
Were Found Liable After Trial. 


The Court
expressly recognizes that a settlor should pay less in settlement that he would
if he were found liable after trial. 
This factor weighs in CISS’s favor. (See Cahill, supra, 194
Cal.App.4th at p. 968.)  

             5.  The
Financial Conditions And Insurance Policy Limits Of Settling Defendants. 

            An exception to the proportionality
requirement described above is that “a disproportionately low settlement figure
is often reasonable” when the settling defendant is “relatively insolvent” and
uninsured or underinsured.  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499; see Schmid v. Superior Court
(1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1244, 1245–6 [holding that “a settlement of a personal
injury lawsuit is in ‘good faith[]’ . . . where a defendant pays the plaintiff
the limit of the defendant’s insurance policy and has no assets, even though
the amount paid in settlement is far less than the likely amount of a judgement
against the defendant were the case to go to trial”]; see also County of Los
Angeles v. Guerrero (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1157–8 [finding that the
settling defendant’s “modest” financial condition and insurance limits “are
necessarily controlling and effectively override the other Tech-Bilt factors”].)  
 
However, the court
must be able to ascertain the information regarding the settling party’s
financial condition or insurance coverage. “The wealth or nonwealth of settling
defendant is a factor for the trial court to consider under Tech-Bilt.” (Grand
Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at 1263-64 [“Nonsettlors assert that
there was insufficient evidence presented as to settlor’s financial condition
and he availability of additional money from USAA, both of which could have
added to the pot, if available, to make up his proportionate share in settlement.  As to this contention, we agree”].)[8]
 
Here, CISS fails to describe its financial condition.  CISS’s stands pat on its claim that it has no
liability and, hence, no need to disclose its financial information.  As discussed above, if CISS has exposure,
then without evidence of CISS’s financial condition, the court cannot evaluate CISS’s
ability to pay an appropriate settlement amount in relationship to its
liability.  Moreover, as discussed above,
there remain open questions regarding insurance issues. This factor weighs
against a good faith determination. 
 
              6. The Existence Of Collusion,
Fraud, Or Tortious Conduct Aimed To Injure  

                  The Interests Of The Non-Settling
Defendants.

            “Any negotiated settlement
involves cooperation, but not necessarily collusion.  It becomes collusive when it is aimed to
injure the interests of an absent tortfeasor. 
Although many kinds of collusive injury are possible, the most obvious
and frequent is that created by an unreasonably cheap settlement.”  (River Garden Farms, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 986, 996.) 
“Prevention of collusion is but a means to the end of preventing
unreasonably low settlements which prejudice a nonparticipating
tortfeasor.  The price of a settlement is
the prime badge of its good or bad faith. 
Construed in the light of [section 877.6’s] objectives, the good faith
release clause extends the obligation of good faith beyond the parties to the
negotiations, embracing an absent tortfeasor.” 
(Ibid.) 
            Here, there is no evidence to show
the settlement agreement was made the product of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct.  However, the impact of the good
faith settlement would be injurious to the Non-Settling Defendants’ rights of
indemnification.  The court has
considered information regarding indemnification elsewhere.  This factor weighs slightly in favor of a good
faith settlement.      
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            After
weighing the relevant Tech-Bilt factors, the court finds the settlement
between Plaintiffs and CISS does not pass the test for a good faith settlement.   
 
            Accordingly,
CISS’ Motion for a Determination of a Good Faith Settlement is DENIED.
            
            Moving
party to give notice.  
 
Dated:   March 6, 2024                                                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            
 
 


