


[1] NPB Global Consulting Group, Inc’s opposition
contains redactions.  NPB Global
Consulting lodged an unredacted copy with the court.  NPB Global’s filing does not comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC), rules 2.550 and 2.551. 
However, given that other parties did not redact or file their pleading under
seal, the court need not address the issues raised by NPB Global’s redactions.  


[2] All statutory references are to
the Code of the Civil Procedure unless otherwise specified. 


[3] Certain Non-Settling Defendants’ ask
the court to consider as part of the calculus the fact that they want to file a
cross-complaint.  That fact has no
bearing on the court’s consideration of the issues herein.  The arguments regarding CISS’s liability for
indemnification, however, are relevant to the court’s consideration of the Tech-Bilt
factors.  Whether Non-Settling Defendants
may prevail on a motion for leave to amend involves other factors and is left
for another day.      


[4] CISS objects to the court’s
consideration of Beattle’s Declaration. 
CISS does not object to the admission of William’s Declaration.  The court overrules the objections. Beatte lays
sufficient foundation for the court’s consideration of his declaration.   


[5] While the court certainly
recognizes the vagaries of trial, nonetheless, CISS must concede it has some
liability otherwise it would not be paying $86,042.52.   


[6] The parties refer to Darrylene’s
economic damages.  In a wrongful death
action, the plaintiff may recover the following economic damages for the death
of the decedent: financial support, loss of gifts or benefits, funeral and
burial expenses, and the reasonable value of household service that the
decedent would have provided.  (CACI No.
3921.)  A plaintiff may also recover
non-economic damages for loss of love, companionship, comfort, care, assistance
protection, affection, society, and moral support.  (Id.) 
In fact, in their Prayer for Relief Plaintiffs seek:  “non-economic damages suffered by Plaintiff
Darrylene Corniel, including, but not limited to, loss of love, affection,
care, society, service, comfort, support, right to support, companionship,
solace or moral support, expectations of future support and counseling, other
benefits and assistance of Decedent Darrell Caldwell” (FAC, Prayer for Relief,
¶ 1.) and “non-economic damages suffered by Decedent Darrell Caldwell as a
result of the injuries he sustained prior to and at his death, including, but
not limited to, pain and suffering causing shock and injury to his nervous
system in an amount in excess of the jurisdictional minimum, according to proof
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 377.34[.]”  (FAC, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 3.)  


[7] With respect to non-economic
damages, Civil Code section 1431.2 states that “each defendant shall be liable
only for the amount of non-economic damages allocated to that defendant in
direct proportion to that defendant’s percentage of fault…”  If, as the Non-Settling Defendants propose
and their evidentiary submission supports, CISS may bear some responsibility
and liability for breaches in security, a reasonable evaluation of CISS’s potential
exposure to liability based upon the circumstances of the case may be grossly
disproportional to the settlement amount. 


[8] The court is unaware if
Non-Settling Defendants attempted to obtain discovery of CISS’s financial
condition.    

