  Case Number:  22STCV23653    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
 Plaintiffs’ Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
of Ingenious Asset Group, Inc.
BACKGROUND
LEO GONZALEZ et al. (“Plaintiffs”) brought this
lawsuit based on allegations that Plaintiffs are tenants at 625 S. Burlington
Ave., Los Angeles, which has uninhabitable conditions, including cockroach
infestations, widespread mold contamination, open exposure to raw sewage,
plumbing issues, faulty and insufficient utilities, structural defects, and
deficient security.  
Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant INGENIOUS ASSET
GROUP, INC. (“Ingenious”) filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”),
alleging that it was harmed by Plaintiffs and the new property owners due to
their failure to timely correct the habitability issues that allegedly existed
during or before the property transfer on 3/4/20.
Plaintiffs demur to the First, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth
Causes of Action in the FACC. Ingenious opposes the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Demurrers are to be sustained where a pleading fails
to plead adequately any essential element of the cause of action. Cantu v.
Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 879-880.
 
ANALYSIS
1.      First
Cause of Action – Negligence 
Plaintiffs’ demurrer contends that the negligence
claim fails as a matter of law because Plaintiffs, who are tenants, owe no legal
duty to Ingenious. 
Ingenious contends that Plaintiffs owe a duty to
Ingenious pursuant to Civil Code Section 1714 and 1928, as well as the definition
of “landlord” in the Los Angeles Municipal Code. But the statutes and municipal
code section referenced in Defendants’ opposition- none of which are alleged in
the FACC- are not directly on point. Section 1714 merely recites the general
rule for negligence, Section 1928 states the statutory duty of a hirer of a
“thing,” and the municipal code’s internal definition of a “landlord” includes
an “agent.” Defendants do not cite any legal authority for the proposition that
these statutes and city code, taken together, provide legal support for the claim
that Plaintiffs owed a duty to Ingenious. Nor do Defendants cite any legal authority
supporting the argument that a city municipal code section defining “landlord”
has any applicability whatsoever to determining the scope of the Civil Code
sections relied on by Defendants. The case relied on by Defendants is distinguishable
because it addressed a duty owed to a landlord at the end of the lease term. Haupt
v. La Brea Heating & Air Conditioning Co. (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d Supp.
784, 788–89. That holding does not address any duty of tenants that is owed to
the landlord’s agent during the pendency of the lease term.  
The Court’s independent research reveals that there is
no governing case directly on point as to tenants’ duties to landlords’ agents.
Nevertheless, sparse case law makes clear that tenants’ duties in general are
not as broad as Ingenious has alleged—i.e., to take steps to prevent
uninhabitable conditions.  Glenn R.
Sewell Sheet Metal, Inc. v. Loverde (1969) 70 Cal.2d 666, 671 (lessee has
no general duty to fix poor conditions at property “except when necessary to
prevent waste or to rectify dilapidations caused by his own lack of ordinary care”.)  Here, the instant pleading is unclear as to
whether the recognized tenant duties are being alleged.
Plaintiffs further argue that, even if the FACC
properly alleged the existence of a duty, it fails to state sufficient facts regarding
the breach of any duty. Plaintiffs specifically contend that alleging facts
applicable to all Plaintiffs is inadequate. General allegations against all
defendants are permitted. See, e.g., Lee v. Escrow Consultants, Inc.
(1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 915, 925 (alleging conduct of defendants and each of them
was sufficient to charge each with liability). Additionally, negligence claims
may be pled generally. “Ordinarily, negligence may be pleaded in general terms
and the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or omission alleged to
constitute the breach of duty.” Lopez v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.
Therefore, the demurrer is sustained as to the issue
of the existence of a duty but not on the basis of alleging breach with sufficient
detail. 
2.         Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action
Plaintiffs’ demurrer argues that the Fourth Cause of
Action for Equitable/Implied Indemnity, Fifth Cause of Action for Apportionment
and Contribution, and Sixth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief fail to
state sufficient facts.  Plaintiffs
contend that these claims require finding that Plaintiffs engaged in tortious
conduct and/or that Plaintiffs owe a duty to Ingenious, and because the
negligence claim fails as a matter of law, these claims necessarily fail as
well. 
Ingenious did not include any argument in the
opposition specifically addressing these claims. A judge in a civil case is not
“obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate
… that which … [a party] has left unspoken.” Mesecher v. County of San Diego
(1992) 9 Cal App.4th 1677, 1686 (internal quotation omitted).
Hence, the demurrer is sustained as to the Fourth, Fifth,
and Sixth causes of action because of Ingenious’s inadequate briefing in
opposition.
CONCLUSION
The demurrer is sustained for the First Cause of
Action for failure to sufficiently allege facts in support of the tenants’
duty, overruled as to the specificity of the allegations regarding breach, and
sustained as to the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action.  
The Court allows leave to amend the FACC, in light of Defendants’
offer to amend as to the question of duty, which necessarily impacts the allegations
regarding Plaintiffs’ tort liability in the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of
Action. Defendants have 20 days to amend.