 Case Number:  23STCV03194    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Plaintiff for Leave to File First Amended Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
In this case, NATASHA IVOSEVIC (“Plaintiff”) seeks
damages against STERN PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC. et al. (“Defendants”) related
to her tenancy. 
The initial Complaint alleged ten causes of action against
Defendant: (1) Breach Of Contract, (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (4)
Breach of the Implied Warranty Of Habitability - Civ Code §1941.1, (5)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Intentional  Misrepresentation (Civ Code§1709), (7) Abuse of
Process,  (8) Landlord Retaliation (Civ.
Code § 1942.5), (9) Violation Of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et. seq.,
Unlawful, Fraudulent and Unfair Business Acts and Practices, and (10)
Negligence.
Plaintiff now seeks leave to file a proposed First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to allege additional causes of action for Quiet Title,
Violation of Beverly Hills Rent Stabilization Ordinance - Wrongful Eviction
Attempt, Wrongful Use of Civil Proceedings, and Declaratory Relief. The
proposed FAC also includes additional factual allegations which occurred after
the filing of the initial Complaint, which relate to both the existing causes
of action and the new causes of action. Defendants oppose the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD
A trial court has discretion to allow a party to amend
a pleading in the furtherance of justice. Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a). “If
discovery and investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely
amendment to a pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.”  Mabie v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
581, 596.  “It is a rare case in which
denial of leave to amend can be justified.” Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1422, 1428.







­




 


 The Court does have
the discretion to deny leave to amend if it finds the party’s delay in
presenting the amendment was unwarranted, or when it determines that the other
party will be prejudiced due to needing more discovery or delay of the trial. Miles
v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 728, 739. Even if a party
delays in moving to amend, however, it is an abuse of discretion for a court to
deny leave to amend a pleading where the opposing party is not prejudiced by
the proposed amendment. Kittredge Sports Co. v Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1048.
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply
with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a), (b).) 
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff contends that, since the filing of the
initial Complaint, she has learned additional facts related to Defendants’
alleged misconduct with respect to Plaintiff’s tenancy. (Ivosevic Decl., ¶¶ 5-8, 22-28; Mot. 16.)
Specifically, Defendants started refusing Plaintiff’s rent and pursued several
unlawful detainer actions against Plaintiff. (Id.) The proposed new
allegations and causes of action are based on Plaintiff’s contention that
Defendants’ conduct amounts to violations of the Beverly Hills RSO and the
wrongful use of civil proceedings and necessitates Plaintiff also seeking to
quiet title and for declaratory relief. (Id.) Plaintiff filed this
motion once she determined that further settlement discussions with defense
counsel had broken down. (Ivosevic Decl., ¶¶ 29-44.)
Defendants contend that the proposed new causes of
action are duplicative of existing causes of action and will not result in any
additional liability for Defendants or damages for Plaintiff. But courts generally
do not consider the validity of proposed amendments to a pleading when considering
a motion for leave to amend. Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 760 (“the better course of action would have been to allow …
[plaintiff] to amend the complaint and then let the parties test its legal
sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”).  Thus, the legal sufficiency of Plaintiff’s
proposed amendments does not factor into whether leave to amend is warranted
because Defendant can challenge the sufficiency of the FAC once it is filed and
served.
The Court disagrees with Defendants that the delay in
filing this motion is unwarranted and will prejudice Defendants. Plaintiff’s
reasons for delaying the request for leave, which include settlement
negotiations and substitution of defense counsel, constitutes a satisfactory
excuse for delay in prosecution or filing documents. E.g., San
Bernardino City Unif. Sch. Dist. v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d
233, 239. Similarly, an opinion determined it was an abuse of discretion to
deny leave to amend a complaint, because a recent substitution of attorney was one
good reason for delay. See Richter v. Adams (1941) 43 Cal.App.2d 184,
187.
Defendants’ contention that they would be prejudiced
by an amendment at the stage of this case because it will prolong litigation
and increase costs and fees is unavailing. This contention contradicts
Defendants’ other contention that the amendment should be denied because it
adds nothing to Plaintiff’s existing claims. Defendants’ claim that the new
causes of action duplicate existing ones infers that they would have little
more to prepare to defend against the new claims, which suggests that in fact,
Defendants will not need to expend additional resources to litigate the new
claims. Additionally, a possible trial continuance would avoid prejudice by
allowing more time to prepare a defense. Indeed, Plaintiff has indicated she
intends to seek such a continuance to alleviate any potential prejudice to
Defendants. “[I]f an amendment is appropriate the trial
Court should continue the trial if necessary,…” 
Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960,
967.
Finally, Plaintiff
has satisfied the procedural requirements for filing an amended complaint. Plaintiff
has included a copy of the proposed FAC, specified by reference to pages and
lines of the allegations that are to be added, and included a declaration detailing
when Plaintiff discovered the facts giving rise to the proposed amendment and
why Plaintiff waited to seek leave to amend. (Ivosevic Decl., ¶¶ 5-8, 22-44; Mot.
16; Notice of Refiling Proposed FAC).  Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to
provide justification for why new claims are necessary and proper as required
by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b). The Court concludes that the
detailed explanation of how Plaintiff discovered the new facts and how those
facts fit into the proposed new allegations and causes of action substantially
complies with Rule of Court
3.1324(b). Moreover, any rule noncompliance is only minimal and
does not affect the ability to soundly analyze the motion; it certainly does
not provide a basis to deny the motion. E.g., McAllister v. County of
Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253 (court is bound to ignore any ‘defect …
in the pleadings or proceedings which, in the opinion of said court, does not
affect the substantial rights of the parties.’ ”).
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the motion. The proposed First
Amended Complaint may be served and filed, as a separate document, within 10
days. 