 Case Number:  23BBCV02207    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 5, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02207

 



MP:  


The
  People of the State of California acting by and through the Department of
  Transportation (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On September 25, 2023, The People of the State of California,
acting by and through the Department of Transportation, (Caltrans) brought this
action against Apex Development, Inc. (Apex), Anthony Nowaid (Nowaid), Eriks
Towing, The Habibi Shack, Challenger Trucking Express, Stone Concrete Mix, and
Valley Green Tree Services (collectively Defendants). This is an unlawful
detainer matter in which Caltrans seeks possession from Defendants of the
property located at 12398 Sheldon Street, Sun Valley, CA 91352. Some Defendants
have been subsequently dismissed from this action, but Apex and Nowaid remain. On
November 11, 2023, Apex and Nowaid filed a collective Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Before the Court are the following eight motions brought by Caltrans:

 
1.     
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories as to Apex.

 
2.     
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories as to
Apex. 
 
3.     
Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted as to
Apex.
 
4.     
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of
Documents as to Apex.
 
5.     
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories as to
Nowaid. 
 
6.     
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories as to
Nowaid 
 
7.     
Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted as to
Nowaid. 
 
8.     
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of
Documents as to Nowaid. 
 
Defendants have not opposed any of these motions. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
Finally, in this instance
the motion is unopposed.  A failure to
oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.  Failure to file an opposition to the motion
indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC
Rule 8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On
February 5, 2024, Caltrans propounded its written discovery on Apex and Nowaid
consisting of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for
Admission (RFA), and Requests for Production of Documents (RFPD). (Choi Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. 1.) The requests were directed to Apex and Nowaid separately for
a total of 8 separate discovery requests. Discovery was served via email on counsel
for Apex and Nowaid. (Id.) Caltrans states that they have received no
responses to any discovery from Apex or Nowaid, despite the fact that the
discovery deadline was February 13, 2024. (Choi Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) Caltrans further
states that they have received no request for extension from Apex or Nowaid. (Id.)

 
Failure to file an
opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the
motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c). 
Based on the foregoing, Caltrans’ unopposed motions to compel
initial response to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD as
to Apex and Nowaid are GRANTED. 
 
Caltrans’
unopposed motions to deem RFA matters admitted as to Apex and Nowaid are
also GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may impose
a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) In
contrast, the Court shall impose monetary sanctions for failure to
timely respond to requests for admission unless the party acted with
substantial justification, or the circumstances render imposition of sanctions
unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) The Court
must impose a monetary sanction on the party or attorney whose failure to serve
timely Requests for Admission responses necessitated the motion. (Id.) Additionally,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here, Caltrans
prepared and filed eight separate motions to compel discovery/deem RFA matters
admitted. Caltrans requests sanctions of $1,250 be granted with respect to each
motion. Caltrans’ counsel states their office has expended three hours in
preparing each motion. (Choi Decl. ¶¶ 8-10.) Although Caltrans’ counsel does
not bill hourly, they assert a reasonable minimum rate of $250 per hour.  Caltrans’ counsel also factors an anticipated
additional hour for replying to any opposition and appearing at the hearing. (Choi
Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
Given the
nearly identical nature and relative simplicity of these motions, the Court
finds Caltrans’ request to be excessive. While sanctions are in order, they
should be granted in a lesser amount. The Court finds a base $1,000 assessed
for attorney time in preparing the motions would be appropriate. The Court also
finds that the $60 filing fee for each of the eight motions should be accounted
for. Accordingly, the Court grants sanctions against Apex, Nowaid, and their
counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,480 (($1,000) + (8 x $60) =
$1,480). 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The People of the State of California acting by and through
the Department of Transportation’s
Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery and Deem Request for Admissions
Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on April
5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.
 
THE MOTIONS TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED ARE
GRANTED. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,480.
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY AGAINST DEFENDANTS AND THEIR
COUNSEL. 
 
RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CALTRANS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
April 5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 