 Case Number:  23BBCV01494    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 5, 2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01494

 



MP:  


American Express National Bank
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
American Express
National Bank (American Express) brings this action against Artem Sargsyan
(Defendant). American Express alleges Defendant maintained a credit card with
them for a number of years but stopped monthly required payments in 2023. American
Express seeks to recover the outstanding balance on the account, which is $309,410.32.

 
American
Express now moves for summary judgment of its Complaint. Defendant has rendered
no opposition to the motion.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 437c(a).)
“[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to
summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.)
 
The
moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he
does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing
of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord C.C.P. § 437c(p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangsterv. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Where the
plaintiff is the moving party, the plaintiff’s burden of proof on such a motion
is defined by C.C.P. § 437c(p)(1); the plaintiff must prove each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on that cause of action. (Paramount
Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court notes that
American Express’ motion improperly identifies the causes of action in their
Complaint. The notice of motion identifies causes of action for (1) Open Book
Account and (2) Account Stated. Upon review the Complaint in this matter
contains a single cause of action for Common Count. Accordingly, the Court will
consider the merits of American Express’ motion as they apply to a cause of
action for Common Count. 
 
The required elements of a Common
Count claim are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.” (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, [citation and quotation marks omitted].) Rather
than “a specific cause of action,” a common count “is a simplified form of
pleading normally used to aver the existence of various forms of monetary
indebtedness” often “used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery
demanded in a specific cause of action.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 394.)
 
American Express states
that in November of 2022, Defendant opened an American Express Credit Card with
a current account number ending in 1008. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. B.) American
Express further states that this card was governed by the Cardmember Agreement,
which was presented to Defendant at the time he received the card. (Touhidi
Decl., Exh. A p. 3.) American Express states that Defendant accepted the terms
of the Cardmember Agreement by virtue of his keeping and using the card.
(Touhidi Decl. Exh. C.) American Express has presented evidence, through the
form of credit card statements, that Defendant failed to make the required
monthly payments on the account. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. C.) According to American
Express’ statements, Defendant’s last payment on the account occurred July 10,
2023. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. D.) American Express states that Defendant had a
60-day window in which to dispute any charges present in American Express’
accounting but did not do so. (Touhidi Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. A p. 9.) American
Express indicates through these credit card statements that the current balance
on the account due and owing is $309,410.32. (Touhidi Decl. Exh. B.)
 
Even if unopposed, the
moving party may still be denied summary judgment unless their papers clearly
establish that there is no triable issue of fact, and they are entitled to
judgment. (Harman v. Mono General Hospital (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 607,
613.) Here, the Court finds that American Express has satisfied its initial
burden that no triable issue of material fact exists as to the Common Count
claim. As such, the burden shifts to Defendant to show a triable issue of fact
exists. Defendant, by virtue of his failure to oppose the motion, has not shown
a triable issue of fact. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for
summary judgment is granted. Judgment is granted for American Express against
Defendant in the amount of $309,410.32. The Court will incorporate American Express’ request that
the judgment include $503 in costs. (See Touhidi Decl. ¶ 15.) The Cardmember
Agreement contains an explicit provision that Defendant agreed to pay all
reasonable costs, including attorney’s fees, incurred in collection efforts.
(Touhidi Decl. Exh. A p. 6.) The Court finds that $503 in costs are reasonable
for a lawsuit of this nature.   
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the Court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the Court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
American Express
National Bank’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on
regularly for hearing on April 5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED. 
 
JUDGMENT IS ENTERED IN THE AMOUNT OF $309,410.32 PLUS $503.00 IN COSTS.

 
AMERICAN EXPRESS TO FILE A JUDGMENT CONSISTENT
WITH THIS RULING WITHIN THE TIME REQUIREMENTS IN THE RULES OF COURT.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, AMERICAN
EXPRESS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 