  Case Number:  22BBCV01270    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 5, 2023

MOTION
TO CHALLENGE GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01270

 



MP:  


The City of Los Angeles (Defendant)


 




RP:  


Pacific
  Bell Telephone Company dba AT&T (Defendant/Applicant)


                  



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This is a
personal injury action in which Cathy Feindel (Plaintiff) seeks damages from
falling on the sidewalk near 11942 Saticoy Street, North Hollywood, California
91605. Plaintiff named as defendants the City of Los Angeles (the City), the
County of Los Angeles (the County), Pacific Bell Telephone Company dba AT&T
(PacBell), and Lissett Avila & Elvys A. Martinez (Property Owners).
Plaintiff alleges the sidewalk was fractured, sunken, and dipped which caused
her to fall and break her ankle. Plaintiff further alleges that the sidewalk in
the area surrounded a manhole cover owned and installed by PacBell. 
 
PacBell
and Plaintiff appear to have reached a settlement and seek a Determination of
Good Faith Settlement (Application.) The City now moves to contest the
settlement on grounds that it fails to meet the criteria for determining good
faith under C.C.P. § 877.6 and Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates. PacBell opposes and the City replies.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under C.C.P.
§ 877.6, “[a] determination by the court that [a] settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from any further claims
against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (C.C.P. § 877.6(c).) “The party asserting the lack of good
faith has the burden of proof on that issue.” (C.C.P. § 877.6(d).)
 
C.C.P. §
877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements made under its
aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s
dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the
parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of
settlement). (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488, 494.) 
 
In Tech-Bilt,
the California Supreme Court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement was made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Id. at
pp. 498-501.) “Practical considerations obviously require that the [trial court’s]
evaluation [of the settlement] be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.” (Id. at p. 499.)
 
Substantial
evidence showing the nature and extent of the settling defendant’s liability is
required. Without such evidence, a “good faith” determination is an abuse of
discretion. (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1337, 1348; see Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 822, 834 [attorney’s declaration re settling defendant’s liability
insufficient where he failed to provide specific supporting facts or expert
opinion].)
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to demonstrate, if
he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the
above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of [Section
877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500.) “The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (C.C.P. §
877.6(b); see also City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
PacBell applies for a determination
of good faith settlement between themselves and Plaintiff. The agreement
requires PacBell to pay $20,000 in settlement of Plaintiff’s claims against
them. (App., Kadomatsu Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
The Court first addresses
whether PacBell has shown substantial evidence to support its critical
assumption as to its liability. Here, because Plaintiff’s action sounds in
negligence, critical factors in assessing PacBell’s liability are PacBell’s
duty to Plaintiff and any breach of that duty by PacBell. The City argues that
PacBell has offered no substantial evidence supporting the claim that they were
not liable. The City’s argument that PacBell must offer evidence of “good faith”
remains salient as per Mattco. 
 
In reviewing the evidence
offered both in the motion and PacBell’s opposition, the Court is satisfied
that PacBell has shown key information necessary to support its application.   PacBell’s
evidence which shows that the City received and responded to several Sidewalk
Repair Requests prior to the incident is persuasive with the Court. PacBell
submits Sidewalk Repair Requests dated May 10, 2018, December 19, 2018, and
August 30, 2022. (Kodamatsu Decl., Exh. D. Special Interrogatories Nos. 47, 49,
72, 73, 74.)  Additionally, the City appears
to have performed a small asphalt repair on the location prior to the incident.
(Kodamatsu Decl., Exh. D. Special Interrogatories Nos. 19 and 20, 30.) These
showings are strongly indicative of a duty owed by the City to maintain the
sidewalk, rather than primarily PacBell. 
 
PacBell also offers the declaration
of Stavros Chrysovergis (Chrysovergis), a geological scientist and civil
engineer. Chrysovergis states that PacBell installed a utility vault and
manhole cover at the location around 1979. (Chrysovergis Decl. Exh. A.) Chrysovergis
states, based on his personal inspection of the location, that the failure of
the sidewalk around the manhole cover was not due to PacBell’s facility or
installation of the manhole/vault. (Chrysovergis Decl. ¶ 12.) Chrysovergis
instead posits that the sinking sidewalk was caused by a sudden condition such
as water source which eroded the soil beneath the sidewalk. (Chrysovergis Decl.
¶ 15.) Chrysovergis points to excavations in 2014 between a nearby water meter
and fire hydrant as the likely culprits of the erosion. (Chrysovergis Decl.
¶ 17, Exh. E.) 
 
In contravention of PacBell’s
argument, the City offers the declaration of Arnold A. Rodio (Rodio), a
licensed plumbing contractor. Rodio states that based on his own site
inspection, the collapse of the sidewalk is attributable to improper compaction
of the soil around the PacBell vault when it was installed. (Rodio Decl.
¶ 6.) Rodio states that over time water would seep into the improperly
compacted soil and create a void under the sidewalk. (Id.) 
 
The Court notes that Chrysovergis
argues Rodio’s conclusion to be incorrect. Chrysovergis states that failure to
properly compact the soil would result in the sidewalk sinking almost
immediately, not 40 years after the vault was installed. (Chrysovergis Decl.
¶ 13.) 
 
PacBell argues that the
City has admitted it was responsible for maintaining the sidewalk at the
location in a condition safe for public use. (Kodamatsu Decl., Exh. E, RFA No.
12.) PacBell’s argument appears to be that the City has admitted ultimate or sole
responsibility in this matter. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive.
PacBell’s argument ignores the City’s responses to RFAs which ask the City to
admit (1) that they created the dangerous condition, (2) that they maintained
exclusive right to control the location, (3) that they were responsible for
repairing the sidewalk, and (4) that they were aware of the dangerous condition
and did nothing to repair the sidewalk. (Exh. E, RFA Nos. 7, 2, 14, 15-17.) The
City denied all of these admissions, indicating that the City has not admitted
sole or even primary responsibility for the condition of the sidewalk. 
 
The Court finds the
existence of the Sidewalk Repair Requests and the declaration of Chrysovergis
serve as substantial evidence supporting PacBell’s theory of liability. The
Court is not determining whether PacBell or the City bore sole
responsibility to maintain the sidewalk. Nor is the Court determining the exact
percentage of liability borne by both parties. Instead, the Court is
determining whether PacBell has provided substantial evidence in concert with its
theory of potential liability. While PacBell appears to be arguing the sidewalk
was completely within the City’s control, the reality is that PacBell is
offering $20,000 to Plaintiff in settlement of any claims against them. Unfortunately,
as highlighted in the City’s opposition, the Court is unable to apply its
experience to determine if this amount is within the scope of compensation for
a partial tortfeasor for a personal injury action of this nature. The Court is only
able to determine that the current medical bills are $62,000, immediate future
treatment of at least $24,000, but the Court is unable to determine the extent
of any other treatment needed.   The City
of Los Angeles has asserted that another party has already settled a portion of
the case for $300,000, which far exceeds the medical information that was
provided in this application.   A
reasonable assumption is that damages exceed $386,000 should this matter go to
trial.   However, the Court does not have
sufficient information to determine the ultimate exposure at jury trial.   
 
The Court will address the City’s
argument that the Tech-Bilt factors are unsatisfied here. As previously
stated, the Tech-Bilt factors need not all be present for the Court to determine
the settlement was in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are
guidelines for determining good faith, not requirements that need to be exhaustively
proved by the party applying for a determination. This is particularly relevant
as to the City’s claim that PacBell has not included any information as to
their financial condition or insurance policy limits. This is an insignificant
factor for the Court.  It is commonly
known that PacBell is a large well-funded corporation.   For this type of case, insurance coverage is
of little concern to the Court in determining a good faith settlement. The
Court does not believe that as a defendant, PacBell would be unable to pay any monetary
judgment based on the facts underlying this case and apportionment of fault.  Nonetheless, the Court believes that the
factor of a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability is essential. 
This information is absent.  While
the contesting party has the burden to challenge the settlement, the
information provided has done so.  
 
The City’s substantial argument
contends that the settlement is grossly disproportionate to the amount of
damages Plaintiff claims. Plaintiff claims damages “in excess of $25,000”, as
reflected in her Claim for Damages filed with the City of Los Angeles on September
6, 2022. (Mot. Exh. A.) As evidence of Plaintiff’s claimed damages, the City points
to a medical bill from Saint Joseph Medical Center for $62,000. (Mot. p. 3, ¶
1.)  The Court believes that the City has
shown that insufficient evidence is before the Court to determine Plaintiff’s
damages, and as such, the Court is unable to determine if a $20,000 settlement
by a partial tortfeasor is appropriate, especially in light of another
defendant having settled for $300,000.   Furthermore, the proximity of the sidewalk
defect to the manhole cover and underground vault is consistent with a jury
finding PacBell more than nominally at fault in the case.
 
PacBell has presented
evidence indicating that their liability was partial and, in many ways, smaller
than that of the City and other defendants. This is not to say the Court’s
determination here is dispositive of causation at trial or any other point of
the case. (See Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 894, fn. 11 [ holding that any finding or determinations made on
contested issues of liability are tentative and solely for the purpose of
evaluating the food faith of the proposed settlement.].) 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Challenge
the Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. The Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The City of Los
Angeles’s Motion to Challenge Good Faith Settlement
came on regularly for hearing on April 5, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO CHALLENGE GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS
GRANTED.
 
THE APPLICATION FOR
DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CITY OF LOS
ANGELES TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: April
5, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 