 Case Number:  23BBCV01635    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 5, 2024

MOTION
TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01635

 



MP:  


Erik Sords (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Erik
Sords (Plaintiff) brings this action against LA Sun Partners, Inc. (Defendant)
for Breach of Contract and Quantum Meruit. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
refused to pay him some $74,653.67 in commissions for services Plaintiff
performed on Defendant’s behalf. 
 
Before the Court
is a motion brought by Plaintiff to deem matters in his Request for Admissions
(RFA) admitted. Defendant has provided no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission responses
necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Background

 
On
February 16, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant’s Amended
Answer filed on December 11, 2023. Defendant’s Amended Answer indicated that
Defendant, a corporation, intended to represent itself in pro per. The Court
found that striking the Amended Answer with leave to amend was proper, given
that California law has long held a corporation cannot represent itself in a
civil action. 
 
Between
the granting of the motion to strike and the hearing of this motion it appears
that Defendant has retained counsel to represent them in this matter. On
February, 20 2024, Defendant filed a substitution of attorney stating they are
now represented by an Omer Baron. Defendant thereafter filed an Answer and a
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Motion to
Deem RFA Admitted
 
On
December 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel propounded his RFA (Set One) on
Defendant via mail. (Kraft Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendant’s responses were due on
January 18, 2024, but no responses were received. (Kraft Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) The
RFA are attached to the motion as Exhibit A. The proofs of service for both the
RFA and this motion show a service address of 14320 Ventura Blvd. Ste #333
Sherman Oaks, CA 91423, which appears to be Defendant’s business address. The
Court notes that the RFA are not directed at any particular agent or employee
of Defendant.
 
The Court
has concerns with the service of the RFA and this motion, though this is no
fault of Plaintiff’s. Given the Court’s ruling striking the pro per Answer and
Defendant’s subsequent retaining counsel, the Court is concerned that Defendant
and their new counsel have not received notice of the outstanding RFA. This
concern is heightened by Defendant’s failure to oppose the last two motions,
despite the fact that it appears they are active in the case. 
 
While the
Court understands that motions brought pursuant to C.C.P. § 2033.280 must be
granted for non-response, it is unclear whether Plaintiff’s service has been
adequate to give notice to Defendant. The Court notes the proof of service of
the Summons and Complaint reflects personal service at the Ventura Blvd.
Address. Despite this, Defendant’s Ex Parte Application for Extension of Time
to Serve Answer stated that Defendant only became aware of the suit when
informed by a third party. (See October 25, 2023, Ex Parte App.)
 
Further,
Plaintiff’s declaration contains no statement that he communicated with
Defendant regarding the outstanding discovery. While the statute does not
require meet and confer efforts, they would go some ways to assuaging the
Court’s concerns about Defendant’s notice. All of this concern is further
compacted by the dire nature of a motion to deem RFA matters admitted. “A
deemed admitted order establishes, by judicial fiat, that a nonresponding party
has responded to requests for admission by admitting the truth of all matters
contained therein.” (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 776.) 
 
The Court
believes that new counsel for the previously unrepresented defendant should
have an opportunity to advise the client to answer the admissions; however, the
Court is also sensitie to Plaintiff having to incur more costs to file a new
motion, as such, the Motion to Deem RFA Matters Admitted is continued to May 17,
2024 at 9:00 AM. Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to meet and confer with
Defendant’s counsel regarding discovery prior to the next court date. The Court
is confident that whatever issues currently exist with discovery can be
resolved informally; however, if this is not the case then the motion to compel
may be heard.
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Erik
Sords’ Motion to Deem Request for Admissions
Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on April
5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS CONTINUED
TO MAY 17, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.  PARTIES ARE
ORDERED TO MEET AND CONFER REGARDING DISCOVERY ISSUES.  
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
April 5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 