 Case Number:  23BBCV02240    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 5, 2024

MOTION FOR
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02240

 



MP:  


Ann Shabtay (Plaintiff)




RP:  


JR Jainclan Foundation
  & Total Lender Solutions, Inc. (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Ann
Shabtay, as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust, (Plaintiff) brings
this action for quiet title on the property commonly known as 4833 Morella
Avenue, Valley Village, California 91607 (the Property). Plaintiff alleges the
title to the Property was improperly used by her son, Eran Shabtay, who has no
ownership interest in that property, to secure a loan. Eran Shabtay
subsequently defaulted on the loan and the lenders issued a notice of
non-judicial foreclosure. 
 
Plaintiff
initially asserted claims for (1) Quiet Title, (2) Cancellation of Instruments,
and (3) Declaratory/Injunctive Relief. The only named Defendants in Plaintiff’s
initial claim were JR Jainclan Foundation & Total Lender Solutions, Inc.
 
Plaintiff
has since amended her complaint. The First Amended Complaint (FAC) names the
following as Defendants: 
 
·        
JR
Jainclan Foundation (Jainclan)
·        
Total
Lender Solutions, Inc. (Total) 
·        
Eran
Shabtay, individually and as Successor Trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate
Grandchildrens Trust dated May 1994 (sued as DOE 1) (Eran)
·        
Red
Dragon Investments (Red Dragon)
·        
Amit
Dhir, Trustee of The Amit Dhir and Sonia Chopra Dhir Living Trust, 
·        
Sonia
Chopra Dhir, Trustee of The Amit Dhir and Sonia Chopra Dhir Living Trust, 
·        
Vikas
Dhir, Trustee of The Vikas and Rachna Dhir Family Trust, 
·        
Rachna
Dhir, Trustee of The Vikas and Rachna Dhir Family Trust, 
·        
FCI
Lender Services, Inc. (FCI) 
·        
California
TD Specialists (TD)
·        
Shaurya
Ray Jain 
·        
HML
Investments
·        
Yanni Raz
·        
Daniel
Tepper
 
The FAC
now asserts claims for (1) Quiet Title (against all Defendants), (2) Cancellation
of Instruments (against all Defendants), (3) Declaratory/Injunctive relief
(against all Defendants), (4) Fraud and Deceit (as to Eran, HML Investments,
Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper, and Jainclan), (5) Elder Abuse (as to HML
Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper, and Jainclan), and (6) Racketeering, and
Unfair Business Practices (as to HML Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper,
Jainclan, and Red Dragon)
 
Before
the Court is Plaintiff’s motion for Preliminary Injunction, prohibiting the
foreclosure sale of the Property by Jainclan. Jainclan opposes the motion and
Plaintiff Replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
Judicial
Notice 
 
Jainclan
requests the Court take judicial notice of the dockets for various bankruptcy
proceedings initiated by Eran, Yerev Shabtay (Yerev), and Plaintiff. (See RJN
Exhs. 1-7.) Jainclan asserts notice of these documents is proper considering
they are records of the United States Bankruptcy Courts. (See Evid. Code §
452.) The Court GRANTS the request. 
 
Timeline
for this Motion
 
This
motion has appeared on the Court’s calendar numerous times and presents a
complicated fact pattern. Accordingly, the Court finds its helpful to summarize
the events leading up to this hearing. 
 
On
September 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint. Also on September 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Ex Parte Application for Temporary Restraining Order (TRO).
This TRO sought to restrain Jainclan from executing a trustee’s sale of the
Property. That same day the Court granted the TRO and set a hearing for a
Preliminary Injunction on November 3, 2023. 
The partes thereafter stipulated to continue this hearing to November
21, 2023. Jainclan and Plaintiff then filed their opposition and reply papers.
The Court approved the stipulation but moved the date to November 30, 2023 to
prevent calendaring conflicts. 
 
At the
November 30, 2023 hearing, the parties represented that Plaintiff was in the
process of a refinance of the Property which would potentially moot the issue.
To allow Plaintiff more time to complete this potential refinance, the Court
once more continued the matter to December 21, 2023. On December 21, 2023,
Plaintiff informed the Court that she was still undergoing the refinance
process. Defendant requested the Court place a date for the Preliminary
Injunction hearing sometime in January. The Court informed the parties that the
Judicial Officer who had handled the matter up to this point would be out on
leave during the month of January. Regardless, the Court set January 17, 2024
as the hearing date for the Preliminary Injunction. 
 
On
January 12, 2024, a non-party by the name of Rev Shabtay filed an “Objection
and Reply” to Jainclan’s opposition of the Preliminary Injunction. On January
17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to her Complaint to correct a fictitious
or incorrect name, more commonly known as a Doe Amendment. Plaintiff sought to
add Eran Shabtay as a Doe party
 
On
January 17, 2024, the motion for Preliminary Injunction came on for hearing
before an interim Judicial Officer. Rev Shabtay attempted to electronically
file a C.C.P. § 170.6 preemptory challenge to the interim Judicial Officer,
asserting belief of prejudice against her. It is unclear who filed this
document and whether Rev Shabtay and Eran are the same person. The preemptory
challenge was rejected as it was both improperly electronically filed and filed
by a non-party to the action. On January 18, 2024, the Court issued its final
ruling denying Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction. 
 
On
January 24, 2024, the Court heard Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to reinstate
the TRO. The Court vacated its January 18 order denying the motion for
Preliminary Injunction, reinstated the TRO, and set the motion for Preliminary
Injunction for February 2, 2024. The Court also noted that Eran had not paid
the initial appearance fee as a party in the matter. Eran insisted that he was
Rev Shabtay and that he had paid the initial appearance fee in that name on
January 12, 2024. The Court disagreed, citing that Eran was not added as a
party to the action until January 17, 2024, making his payment of an appearance
fee five days earlier nonsensical. Regardless, the motion for Preliminary
Injunction remained on the Court’s calendar. 
 
On
January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
Plaintiff’s
FAC
 
This
amendment adds a host of Defendants which appear to be associated with Jainclan.
The FAC maintains Eran as a Defendant. Plaintiff has also added causes of
action for Fraud and Deceit (as to Eran, HML Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel
Tepper, and Jainclan), Elder Abuse (as to HML Investments, Yanni Raz, Daniel
Tepper, and Jainclan), Racketeering, and Unfair Business Practices (HML Investments,
Yanni Raz, Daniel Tepper, Jainclan, and Red Dragon Investments). Plaintiff’s
FAC alleges that Eran fraudulently conveyed interest in the property to
Jainclan and forged Plaintiff’s signatures on two Trust Transfer Grant Deeds.
(FAC ¶¶ 21-22.) Plaintiff alleges Eran conspired with various Defendants
to secure a loan against the property under the name of the fictitious “Ann
Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildrens Trust Dated May 1994”. (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges the Property was improperly used as collateral on three loans to Eran.
The first loan is alleged to have been from Defendants Amit Dhir and Sonia
Chopra Dhir Living Trust, The Vikas and Rachna Dhir Family Trust, and Shaurya
Ray Jain as lenders in the amount of $1,700,000.00. (FAC ¶ 25(a).) The second
loan is alleged to be from Defendant JR Jainclan Foundation as lender in the
amount of $1,000,000.00. (FAC ¶ 25(b).) The third loan is alleged to also be
from Defendant JR Jainclan Foundation as lender in the amount of $1,250,000.00.
(FAC ¶ 25(c).) This third loan was also secured by another property, which
Plaintiff alleges was foreclosed upon to satisfy the loan. (FAC ¶ 26.) 
 
Lastly,
Plaintiff now alleges that her refinance attempts have been sabotaged by
Jainclan. (FAC ¶¶ 28-29.) 
 
Facts
Regarding Transfer 
 
On
February 3, 2003, Plaintiff appears to have created the “Ann Shabtay Children’s
Trust”, naming herself and Yerev as trustees. (FAC Exh. A.) The trust document also
provided for the transfer of the Property to the trust. (Id.) Plaintiff
also attaches a quitclaim deed reflecting this transfer dated May 2, 2004. (FAC
Exh. B.) 
 
Plaintiff
attaches a number of Trust Transfer Deeds recorded on October 11, 2019, October
6, 2020, November 10, 2021, November 10, 2021, and June 27, 2022. (FAC Exhs.
C-G.) Plaintiff alleges all of these documents were produced as the result of
the conspiracy between Eran, HML Investments, Yanni Raz, and Daniel Tepper. The
transfers in these documents are as follows: 
 
·        
The
October 11, 2019 Trust Transfer Grant Deed reflects a transfer of the Property
from “Eran Shabtay as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust” to “E. Ron
Shabtay Trustee for Shabtay Childrens Trust”. (FAC Exh. C.) 
·        
The
October 6, 2020 Trust Transfer Grant Deed reflects a transfer of the Property
from “Eran Shabtay trustee for Shabtay Childrens Trust” to “Ann Shabtay Sole
Separate Grandchildrens Trust Dated May 1994, Ann D. Shabtay Trustee and Yrev
Breskin Trustee.” (FAC Exh. D.) 
·        
The first
November 10, 2021 Deed of Trust reflects a loan encumbering the Property to “Eran
Shabtay, successor trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildrens
Trust date May 1994” from HML Investments. (FAC Exh. E.)
·        
The
second November 10, 2021 Deed of Trust reflects a loan encumbering the Property
to “Eran Shabtay, successor trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate
Grandchildrens Trust date May 1994” from Jainclan.  (FAC Exh. F.)
·        
The June
27, 2022 Deed of Trust reflects a loan encumbering the Property to “Eran
Shabtay, successor trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildrens
Trust date May 1994” from Jainclan. (FAC Exh. G.)
 
Plaintiff
also includes two Grant Deeds which she alleges Eran forged her signature on.
(FAC Exhs. H-I.) The contents of these documents are as follows: 
 
·        
The June
2, 2023 Trust Transfer Grant Deed purportedly transferring the Property from “Ann
Shabtay Grantor and Trustee” to “Ann D. Shabtay Grantor and Trustee of the Ann
Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildrens Trust date May 1994”. (FAC Exh. H.) 
·        
The June
27, 2023 Trust Transfer Grant Deed purportedly transferring the Property from
Ann D. Shabtay Grantor and Trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate
Grandchildrens Trust date May 1994” to “Yerev Breskin…Ann Shabtay…and Ann
Shabtay Sole Separate Grandchildrens Trust, as joint tenants in common.” 
 
In
evaluating the likelihood of success on the merits, the Court must also
consider statements and documents from Plaintiff’s initial moving papers. In
her moving papers, Plaintiff stated that for a brief time in 2019 the title was
returned to her individually; however, she does not include any documents that
such a transfer occurred. Plaintiff provides documents that the property was
conveyed to “Ann Shabtay, Trustee of Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust” again on
April 17, 2019 and the deed was filed April 24, 2019. (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 5, Exh.
C.) 
 
On
November 3, 2021, Eran signed a Deed of Trust encumbering the property, naming
Jainclan as the lender. (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) The borrower on this deed
is listed as “Eran Shabtay, as successor trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole
Separate Grandchildren’s Trust”. (Id.) 
 
On the
Propriety of the Amendment 
 
At the
January 17, 2024 hearing, the Court expressed concerns about the validity of
the Doe Amendment adding Eran as a party. Doe Amendments are those made
pursuant to C.C.P. § 474, which permits a plaintiff to amend a pleading to name
a party to whose name they were ignorant of at the time of filing. The Court
expressed doubt that Eran was a party to whom Plaintiff was ignorant at the
time of initially filing her quiet title action. 
 
Regardless,
the Court notes that neither Plaintiff nor Jainclan have submitted any briefing
concerning the amendment. The Court also finds any improper amendment under
C.C.P. § 474 has been superseded by the filing of the FAC on January 31, 2024. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court sees no reason why the addition of Eran as a Defendant is improper. 
 
Preliminary
Injunction 
 
“To
obtain a preliminary injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present
evidence of the irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an
injunction is not issued pending an adjudication of the merits. (White v.
Davis (2003) 30 Cal. 4th 528, 554; see generally C.C.P. § 426(a)(2) [a
preliminary injunction “may be granted … [w]hen it appears … that the
commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce …
great or irreparable injury … to a party to the action].)
 
“The
extraordinary remedy of injunction cannot be invoked without showing the
likelihood of irreparable harm.” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.
4th 1342, 1352 [internal citation and quotation marks omitted].) The threat of “irreparable
harm” must be imminent. “An injunction cannot issue in a vacuum based on the
proponents’ fears about something that may happen in the future…[i]t must be
supported by actual evidence that there is a realistic prospect that the party
enjoined intends to engage in the prohibited activity.” (Korean Philadelphia
Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1069,
1084.)
 
“If the
threshold requirement of irreparable injury is established, then [the court]
must examine two interrelated factors to determine whether … a preliminary
injunction should be [issued]: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will
ultimately prevail on the merits and (2) the relative interim harm to the
parties from issuance or non-issuance of the injunction.” (Costa Mesa City
Employees Assn. v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 298, 306
[internal citation and quotation marks omitted].) The greater the showing on
one factor, the lesser the showing must be on the other. (Butt v. State of
California (1992) 4 Cal. 4th 668, 678.) 
 
Before
issuing a preliminary injunction, the trial court must carefully weigh the
evidence and decide whether the facts require such relief. (Fleishman v.
Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 350, 356.) The Court evaluates the
credibility of witnesses and makes factual findings on disputed evidence. (Id.)
In the absence of a reasonable probability of success, a trial court should
deny a preliminary injunction. (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Ass’n
(1983) 142 Cal. App. 3d 454, 458.) 
 
The Court
evaluates first Plaintiff’s claim for Quiet Title. While Plaintiff states additional
claims for Cancellation of Instruments and Declaratory/Injunctive relief, these
both stem from her Quiet Title claim. As discussed below, the Court finds
Plaintiff has shown a reasonable probability of success on her Quiet Title
claim. As such, the Court need not evaluate Plaintiff’s newly added claims for
purposes of this motion.  
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff has sufficiently made the threshold showing of irreparable
injury should the injunction not issue. As concerns irreparable injury, the
general legal maxim is that real property is unique and that the loss of real
property through foreclosure proceedings cannot be adequately compensated by
money damages. Civil Code § 3387 states “It is to be presumed that the breach
of an agreement to transfer real property cannot be adequately relieved by
pecuniary compensation. In the case of a single family dwelling which the party
seeking performance intends to occupy, the presumption is conclusive. In all
other cases, the presumption is a presumption affecting the burden of proof.” 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has demonstrated that she lives at the Property and has for the last
50 years. (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff also states that she suffers
from Parkinsons Disease and the Property has been modified to accommodate her
illness. (Id.) Jainclan has submitted no evidence in contravention of
these claims. These showings are sufficient to establish that the foreclosure
sale of the Property would result in irreparable injury to Plaintiff. 
 
With
respect to the likelihood of success on the merits, the Court finds the
evidence currently presented weighs in favor of granting the preliminary
injunction. Plaintiff presents the document which created the Childrens Trust
in full as Exhibit A to her FAC. This document shows that Plaintiff and Yerev
were the only named trustees. (Fac Exh. A.) Eran’s name and signature are
present on this document only as a witness to its signing. (Id.)
Although the Property was supposedly transferred to Plaintiff individually at
some point in 2019, Plaintiff has shown that the Property was transferred back
to the “Ann Shabtay Childrens Trust” via Grant Deed filed April 24, 2019.
(Shabtay Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) This transfer to the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust
took place before the Jainclan loan and before any documents listing Eran as a
trustee. In the absence of a document adding Eran as trustee of the “Ann
Shabtay Childrens Trust” or a document conveying interest to him, it is clear
that Eran had no authority to encumber the Property. 
 
In an
attempt to establish legitimate transfer from Eran, Jainclan submits the
declaration of its member Sanjiv Jain (Sanjiv). Sanjiv states that “On November
3, 2021, the Shabtay Grandchildren Trust, through the signature of its
successor trustee, Eran, obtained a loan from Jainclan by executing and
delivering to Jainclan a promissory note in the principal amount of
$1,000,000.00.” (Sanjiv Decl. ¶ 2.) The Court finds this declaration
unpersuasive as to Eran’s authority to encumber the property. For the November
3, 2021 transfer to be valid, Eran must have had authority to make that
transfer. Though the chain of transfer is long and includes multiple parties,
the validity of Eran’s authority boils down to the validity of the October 11,
2019 Trust Transfer Grant Deed. This deed purportedly transferred the Property
from “Eran Shabtay as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust” to “E. Ron
Shabtay Trustee for Shabtay Childrens Trust”. (FAC Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s claim
is that Eran could not do so because he was never a trustee for the “Ann
Shabtay Children’s Trust”. Plaintiff has provided the foundational trust
documents which show Eran was not a trustee. Jainclan, nor any other party, has
even so much as claimed that Eran was added as a trustee at any point. 
 
Jainclan’s
offerings of the various bankruptcy filings by Eran, Yerev, and Plaintiff are
similarly unpersuasive. Jainclan offers the various bankruptcies as evidence of
an attempt to stall creditors. (See Sanjiv Decl. ¶ 14.) The Court first
notes that only Yerev’s bankruptcy filing was stayed as the result of an
alleged “scheme to delay, hinder, or defraud creditors…” (Id., RJI Exh.
7.) No evidence of a similar stay obtained in Plaintiff’s bankruptcy has been
presented. 
 
In short,
Plaintiff has provided evidence that the Property was owned solely by the Ann
Shabtay Children’s Trust” at the time it was purportedly encumbered by the loan
from Jainclan. The evidence also shows Eran had no authority to transfer the
Property away from the “Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust”. In the absence of any
evidence showing Eran was a trustee, the subsequent chain of transfers would be
invalid. In essence, the Court finds the evidence shows a reasonable
probability of success on Plaintiff’s Quiet Title claim. 
 
As a
final matter, the Court notes that Jainclan’s opposition papers are silent as
to what interim harm would result should the injunction be granted. On its
face, a delay of a foreclosure sale by a creditor does not appear to the Court
as an interim harm significant enough to outweigh Plaintiff’s harm should she
be successful on her underlying action. Given the alternative, requiring
Jainclan to wait until the matter has been resolved to sell the property does
not appear to be a significant interim harm. 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
Undertaking

 
Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1150, the Court finds that a surety bond
in some amount is in order. Jainclan suggests a bond in the amount of
$1,500,000 in order to cover lost profits and attorney’s fees incurred in any
appeal or subsequent defense. The Court notes that Jainclan provides no
evidence in support of its claim of lost profits; however, they do support
claims based on the note’s balance, including interest of over $1,300,000. The
Property is estimated to be worth somewhere near $6,000,000 and Jainclan has
provided no reason why a delay in its sale would affect the equity in the home,
but the Court is also aware of other encumbrances on the property.
 
Regardless,
some amount of surety is still appropriate. Given the nature of the litigation
and the amount of motion work already involved, the Court finds that a surety
in the amount of the loan would be an appropriate undertaking.   The surety is set at $1,200,000.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Ann
Shabtay’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction came on regularly for hearing on April 5, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION IS
GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF IS TO SUBMIT A PROPOSED ORDER FOR THE
COURT’S APPROVAL WHICH SHALL INCLUDE THE $1,200,000 SURETY BOND. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 