 Case Number:  23SMCV04468    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   A&M ENGINEERING, INC.,    Plaintiff, v.  CHRISTOPHER KLEIN, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04468     Hearing Date:  December 6, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:    PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS FOR WRIT     ATTACHMENT      MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff A&M Engineering Inc. RESPONDING PARTY:  Defendants Christopher Klein, Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC,     Stelaro, LLC, Alondra Group, LLC, Executive Auto Rentals LLC,  Luxury Lifts, LLC  BACKGROUND This action arises from a breach of promissory notes.  Plaintiff A&M Engineering Inc. made three short-term loans to two Defendants, Global Automotive Solutions LLC (“GAS”) and GAS’s successor in interest, Stelaro LLC (“Stelaro”).  The loans total $14 million, only $1 million of which Plaintiff claims has been repaid.  The loans were purportedly used to buy cars in Mexico which were re-sold for a profit in other countries.   Defendant Christopher Klein served as the CEO of GAS and Stelaro.  Defendant Alondra Group, LLC is the sole shareholder of Stelaro.  Plaintiff has sued other corporate defendants who it claims are the alter egos of Klein, including Executive Auto Rentals, LLC (“EAR”), Christopher Klein Enterprises, LLC (KLE) and Luxury Lift, LLC (“Luxury”).     Plaintiff filed the instant action alleging ten causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud-misrepresentation, (3) fraud-concealment, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) receiving stolen property – Penal Code § 496(a), (c); (6) fraudulent transfer – Civ. Code § 3439 et seq.; (7) breach of fiduciary duty, (8) unfair competition – Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; (9) constructive trust, and (10) unjust enrichment.   This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motions for writ of attachment.  Plaintiff claims that without a writ, it fears that Klein may form a new entity to shield his assets from a judgment against him personally or against GAS, Stelaro, Alondra, CKE, Luxury and EAR, or transfer his funds to an unknown existing entity.       LEGAL STANDARD “Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”¿ (CCP § 484.010.)¿¿ The application shall be executed under oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.020.)¿¿ “The application [for a writ of attachment] shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”¿ (CCP § 484.030.)¿¿¿ The Court shall issue a right to attach order if the Court finds all of the following:¿ (1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.¿ (2) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.¿ (3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.¿ (4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.¿ CCP § 484.090.¿ “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”¿ (CCP § 481.190.)  In determining the probable validity of a claim where the defendant makes an appearance, the court must consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a determination of the probable outcome of the litigation.”¿ (See Loeb & Loeb v. Beverly Glen Music, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1120.)¿¿ At the times prescribed by Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b), the defendant must be served with summons and complaint, notice of application and hearing, and the application and supporting evidence.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.040.)¿¿¿ “The Attachment Law statutes are subject to strict construction.”¿(Epstein v. Abrams¿(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.) EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS ¿ The Court overrules Defendants’ Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3 and sustains Objection Nos. 4-29.  ANALYSIS ¿ Plaintiff’s application is defective because it is verified by plaintiff’s counsel, not plaintiff.  “An attorney should not verify an Application for an RTAO [right to attach order] unless the attorney has personal knowledge of every fact alleged therein (a rare event).”  (Cal. Practice Guide: Enforcing Judgments and Debts (The Rutter Group 2021) ¶4:202.)   Further, Plaintiff has not shown it has a probability of prevailing on its alter ego claims against Klein, Alondra, CKE, Luxury and EAR.  Alter ego liability requires two elements: (1) “such unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the corporation and the individual no longer exist,” and (2) whether “adherence to the fiction of separate existence would, under the circumstances, promote fraud or injustice.” (Watson v. Commonwealth Ins. Co.¿(1936) 8 Cal.2d 61, 68.)¿ Factors a trial court may consider when deciding unity of interest and whether the fiction of a separate existence would promote fraud and injustice include the following: “Commingling of funds and other assets … ; the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation as his own [citations]; … the failure to maintain … adequate corporate records … ; … sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by … the members of a family [citations]; … the use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an individual … ; … [the] concealment of personal business activities [citations]; the use of the corporate entity to procure labor, services or merchandise for another person or entity [citations]; … or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal transactions.” (Associated Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co.¿(1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 838–840.) Plaintiff has not shown there was a commingling of funds between the separate defendants, that Klein or the other defendants treated Stelaro’s assets as their own, that there was a failure to maintain adequate corporate records, that Stelaro was a mere shell, or that Stelaro was used as a subterfuge for illegal transactions.  Plaintiff offers the declaration of Boris Beljak, Jr., but Beljak lacks personal knowledge to attest to these facts.  Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for a writ of attachment.         CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Plaintiff A&M Engineering, Inc.’s motions for a prejudgment writ of attachment against Stelaro LLC, Christopher Klein, Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC, Alondra Group LLC, Luxury Lifts LLC and Executive Auto Rentals, LLC.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: December 6, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 