 Case Number:  23AHCV02935    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING HG’S MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHOUT PREJUDICEI.         INTRODUCTION
This case involves a contractual dispute between three brothers:
Plaintiffs Yu Li and Yong Li, and Defendant Ji Li. Plaintiffs allege that Ji Li
defrauded them in connection with their family business, Plaintiff JWY Group,
Inc. (collectively, "Plaintiffs").
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant action alleging seven
causes of action: (1) Cancellation of Written Instruments, (2) Fraud, (3)
Intentional Concealment, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (5) Conversion, (6)
Breach of Contract, and (7) Injunction.
On February 27, 2024, Defendant HG Realty Investment & Management
Inc. ("HG") filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) against JWY Group,
Inc., and Ji Li (collectively "JWY") for ten causes of action,
including multiple claims for breach of promissory notes, judicial foreclosure,
fraud, and declaratory relief.
On December 12, 2024, HG filed the instant motion for leave to amend its
cross-complaint to file a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC). HG seeks to
add new causes of action and additional parties based on facts allegedly
discovered by its new counsel. On January 6, 2025, JWY filed an opposition to
the motion. No reply has been filed by HG.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a) provides: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see Code
Civ. Proc., § 576.)¿¿¿ ¿ 
Permissible amendments pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) include amendments which
add causes of action.¿ A plaintiff that fails to plead a cause of action
arising out of the transaction or occurrence that gave rise to the complaint
may apply to the court for leave to amend the complaint to assert the cause of
action, whether that failure was the result of oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ The motion to amend may be filed at any time
during the course of the action, on notice to the adverse party.¿ (Id.,
§ 426.50.)¿ ¿ 
The court has broad discretion to
permit amendments to pleadings, and “the court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.”¿ (Howard v.
County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)¿ “The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend . . ..”¿¿ (Morgan v. Superior Court
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)¿ Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”¿ (Solit v. Tokai Bank,
Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿ ¿ 
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must
also be supported by a declaration which specifies the following: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)¿
III.      ANALYSIS
            HG brings
this motion seeking leave to amend to file a SACC arguing that the proposed
amendments are necessary to address new facts discovered by its counsel
regarding the authority of Ji Li and the involvement of Yu Li, Yong Li, and Jia
Wang in managing JWY Group. HG contends that the amendments will allow it to add
causes of action for recovery of the loan deficiency and appointment of
receiver and for damages. (Jung Decl. ¶¶3-5) 
HG asserts that its motion complies
with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, citing the inclusion of the
proposed SACC and a declaration outlining the necessity of the amendments. HG
also argues that no party will be prejudiced, as the trial date is set for
January 2026, leaving sufficient time for discovery.  (Motion, p.7) HG
claims it sought to amend earlier through stipulations, but opposing counsel’s
failure to cooperate delayed the filing of the motion. (Motion, p.3)
In opposition, JWY contends that
HG’s motion fails to comply with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) and
(b). JWY argues that HG’s declaration does not identify the specific amendments
or their location in the SACC, nor does it adequately explain the effect of the
amendments, when the facts were discovered, or why the motion was delayed.
(Opposition, p. 2.) JWY further argues that the proposed amendments are
meritless and inconsistent with prior allegations in HG’s pleadings. 
The Court finds that HG’s motion
does not comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324(a) and (b). Although HG includes a copy of the proposed SACC, the motion
fails to identify the specific allegations being added or removed, along with
their precise location in the amended pleading, as required under Rule
3.1324(a)(2)-(3). The lack of specificity impedes the Court’s ability to
evaluate the proposed changes.
Moreover, HG’s declaration does not
fully address the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b). While HG generally describes
the necessity of the amendments, it fails to specify when the facts underlying
the amendments were discovered. Additionally, although HG asserts that prior
counsel did not include the additional claims, it does not adequately explain
why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Based on the foregoing, the Court
DENIES HG’s motion for leave to amend SACC without prejudice.
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            The Court DENIES
HG’s motion for leave to file the SACC without prejudice. 
HG is to give notice. 
 
Dated: January 9, 2025                                                                         
 
 
                                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 