 Case Number:  24AHCV00221    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING CROSS-DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT and DENYING MOTION TO STRIKEI.         INTRODUCTION
In this action, Plaintiffs The One
Pioneer LLC dba One Up Insurance Agency (“TOP”), Dandan Song aka Alex Song
(“Song”), Peiran Li aka Alice Li (“Li”), Feng Tang aka Jenny Tang (“Tang”), and
Annie Yuan On (“On”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege that their competitors
in the Asian-American insurance and wealth management industry, Defendants Pom
Insurance Agency Inc. dba Peace of Mind Wealth Management (“POM”), Alan Wen
(“Wen”), and Angel Wenjun Tang (“Tang”) (collectively, “Defendants”), caused
the termination of Plaintiffs’ contracts (allegedly valued in millions and
billions), the loss of Plaintiffs’ clients, and significant financial damages
to Plaintiffs. The complaint asserts 15 causes of action, including breach of
contract, intentional interference with contractual relations, misappropriation
of trade secrets, defamation, assault, and battery.
On August 27, 2024,
Cross-Complainants POM and Wen (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants TOP, Song ,Li, Tang, and On
(collectively, “Cross-Defendants”), asserting eight causes of action: (1)
Trespass, (2) Conversion, (3) Assault, (4) Defamation, (5) Defamation, (6)
Defamation, (7) Unfair Business Practices, and (8) Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage.
On October 1, 2024,
Cross-Defendants filed a demurrer with motion to strike to the Cross-Complaint.
On December 26, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed an opposition, and on January 2,
2025, Cross-Defendants submitted a reply.
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the
responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video
conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.
Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing
the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to
meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer
or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.
(a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)
Here, Cross-Defendants counsel sent
a meet and confer letter to Cross-Complainants’ counsel on September 16, 2024,
outlining alleged deficiencies in the Cross-Complaint and requesting amendments
or dismissal (Rothman Decl., ¶ 3). Cross-Complainants’ counsel responded via
email on September 23, 2024, declining to amend or dismiss the claims and
inviting Cross-Defendants to proceed with their motions (Rothman Decl., ¶ 4).
While correspondence occurred, no
meet and confer discussion was held via the required methods of phone, video,
or in person. Thus, the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41 were not satisfied.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”
they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be
accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible
a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
III.      ANALYSIS
Cross-Defendants demur to the
Cross-Complaint’s third cause of action for Trespass, fourth cause of action
for Assault, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action for Defamation, eighth
cause of action for Unfair Business Practices, and ninth cause of action for
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, arguing that the allegations
fail to state sufficient facts to constitute valid claims under California law.
First cause of action: Trespass
Cross-Defendants
contend that this cause of action fails to state a cause of action against Cross-Defendant
Song because the Cross-Complaint does not allege that Song personally entered
the Las Vegas office on October 26, 2023 (Demurrer, p. 2). Cross-Defendants
maintain that Cross-Complaint merely alleges that Song “directed” Feng Tang and
Annie On to access the premises, which is insufficient to support a claim for
trespass.  Cross-Defendants further argue that the allegations do not
demonstrate the absence of permission to enter, particularly given that the
office was used for business purposes and open to the public (Reply, p. 3)
In
opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that under California law, trespass may be
committed not only by an unauthorized physical entry but also by causing
another person to enter the property unlawfully (Opposition, p. 2) They rely on
Martin Marietta Corp. v. Ins. Co. of N. Am. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1113,
1132, to assert that a defendant may be liable for trespass if they directed or
caused a wrongful entry.
To set
forth a cause of action for trespass, Defendants must allege (1) Defendants’
lawful possession or right to possession of real property; (2) Plaintiffs’
wrongful, intentional, reckless, or negligent act of trespass on the property;
(3) Defendants did not give permission for the entry or scope of permission was
exceeded; and (4) damage to Defendants caused by the trespass. (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245,
262.)  
The Court
finds that the allegations in the Cross-Complaint are sufficient to state a
cause of action for trespass against Cross-Defendant Song at the pleading
stage. Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendant Song directed Feng Tang
and Annie On to enter the Las Vegas office without authorization, intending to
disrupt the meeting between Angel Tang and Alan Wen (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 50,
54). Under California law, trespass may be committed not only through direct
physical entry but also by causing or directing another person to unlawfully
enter the property.
At this
stage of the proceedings, the allegations are taken as true, and the
Cross-Complaint adequately pleads the requisite elements for trespass,
including Song's liability for directing the unauthorized entry. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
Third cause of action: Assault
Cross-Defendants
argue that the third cause of action for assault fails because the allegations
in the Cross-Complaint are contradictory. Specifically, Cross-Defendants
highlight that while the Cross-Complaint alleges that Angel Tang "was
assaulted and knocked to the ground" (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 28), it
simultaneously asserts, in support of the trespass claim, that Alan Wen
interceded to prevent harm to Tang by pushing Feng Tang away (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 53). Cross-Defendants argue that this contradiction undermines the claim for
assault. (Demurrer, p.6) 
In opposition,
Cross-Complainants argue that the allegations are not contradictory and that a
cause of action for assault does not require actual physical harm or contact.
Under California law, an assault claim is established if the defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or if the plaintiff
reasonably believed that such contact was imminent (So v. Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669). Cross-Complainants contend that the alleged
actions of Feng Tang and Annie On, including their refusal to leave and
aggressive behavior, created a reasonable belief on Tang's part that she was
about to be harmed (Opposition, p. 4). They further argue that the allegation
of Wen’s intervention does not negate the assault claim, as the fear and harm
were already caused by the actions of the Cross-Defendants prior to Wen's
involvement.
“The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
[he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it
reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the
threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was
harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
668-669.) 
Here, the
Cross-Complaint alleges that Feng Tang and Annie On acted aggressively and
verbally abused Angel Tang, which escalated into a physical altercation during
which Tang was allegedly assaulted and knocked to the ground (Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 28, 50-53). While the allegations regarding Alan Wen’s intervention suggest
that Tang may not have been physically harmed as initially alleged, an assault
claim does not require actual contact. The key inquiry is whether Tang
reasonably believed she was about to be harmed, and the allegations support
such a belief based on the conduct of Feng Tang and Annie On.
At this
pleading stage, inconsistencies do not defeat the claim. The Court must accept
the allegations as true and construe them in the light most favorable to the
Cross-Complainants. The allegations that Tang, a 60-year-old disabled woman,
faced aggressive and threatening behavior, coupled with the Defendants’ refusal
to leave, are sufficient to establish the elements of assault.
Thus, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to this cause of action.
Fourth cause of action:
Defamation
Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because the alleged defamatory statements
lack specificity. Specifically, Cross-Defendants contend that the statements
attributed to Dandan Song in the October 26, 2023, letter, including assertions
that Angel Tang’s behavior was “unethical” and violated TOP’s ethical
standards, are not actionable because they are protected opinions rather than
provable falsehoods (Demurrer, p. 7). Cross-Defendants also argue that the letter
was distributed internally to TOP’s agents and, under the “totality of the
circumstances” test, cannot reasonably be construed as defamatory (Demurrer, p.
8).
In
opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that the statements in the letter are
defamatory because they falsely imply that Tang engaged in unethical and
unprofessional behavior. There are not mere opinions, but false factual
assertions intended to harm Tang’s reputation in the insurance industry.
(Opposition, p.5) 
The
elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3)
defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or
causes special damage. (See Wong v. Tai Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th
1354, 1369.
Here, the
Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendant Song published a letter to TOP’s
agents falsely accusing Tang of unethical behavior (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 71-75).
These statements are actionable if they imply provably false factual
assertions. The allegations that Song’s statements were knowingly false and
made with the intent to damage Tang’s professional reputation sufficiently
plead the falsity and defamatory nature of the statements.
The
publication element is met because the letter was shared with TOP’s agents, and
California law does not require publication to the public; communication to
even a single third party is sufficient (Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 637, 645). The Cross-Complaint further alleges that Tang suffered
financial harm and reputational damage within her professional community as a
result of the statements, satisfying the element of injury or special damages.
At the
pleading stage, the Court accepts the allegations as true and evaluates them in
the light most favorable to the Cross-Complainants. The allegations
sufficiently state a claim for defamation,
Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to this cause of action.
Fifth cause of action:
Defamation
Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because the allegations regarding the
social media post on We-Chat by Cross-Defendant Li fail to specify defamatory
statement. They contend that the statements allegedly made are non-actionable
opinions. (Opposition, p.9) They further assert that the Cross-Complaint fails
to attach the defamatory posts, which is insufficient and prevents them from
understanding the allegations against them. (Opposition, p. 10)
In
opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that the social media post by Li is
defamatory because it falsely portrays Wen as unethical and incompetent,
harming his reputation in the Asian-American financial services community
(Opposition, p. 6). They contend that Li’s statement falsely suggested that
Cross-Complainants were engaged in improper or immoral conduct, which amounts
to a false factual assertion rather than an opinion. Additionally,
Cross-Complainants allege that Li’s false claim that Cross-Defendants called
the police during the October 26, 2023, altercation is intended to mislead
readers and harm Wen’s credibility. Cross-Complainants argue that these
statements were made maliciously and with the intent to cause reputational harm
(Opposition, p. 7).
The Court
finds that the Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges that Cross-Defendant Peiran
Li made false and defamatory statements about Alan Wen on the social media
platform WeChat, including claims that impugned his business ethics and
professional reputation, with the intent to cause harm (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶
79-84). The allegations further assert that these statements led to financial
harm, including the resignation of a top-performing agent. At the pleading
stage, these allegations are sufficient to state a claim for defamation. 
The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer as to this cause of action.
Sixth cause of action:
Defamation
Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because the allegations regarding
defamatory emails are vague. They contend that the Cross-Complaint does not
provide the exact language or the full context of the alleged emails, making it
impossible to determine whether the statements are actionable as defamation.
Cross-Defendants further argue that the alleged statements, such as accusing
Alan Wen of being a “criminal mastermind,” are likely non-actionable opinions
rather than provably false factual assertions (Demurrer, p. 10).
In
opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that the email alleging Alan Wen was a
“criminal mastermind” engaged in criminal conduct (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 88)
sufficiently supports a claim for defamation. While Cross-Defendants contend
that the Cross-Complaint fails to specify the recipients or locations of the
emails (Demurrer, p. 10), Cross-Complainants counter that they have adequately
alleged the email’s date (e.g., May 5, 2024) and defamatory content. They
assert that these allegations provide sufficient notice of the defamation
claim, and they are entitled to use pre-trial discovery to determine the
recipients and scope of the communications (Opposition, p. 6)
The Court
finds that the Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges that Cross-Defendants sent
emails containing false and defamatory statements about Alan Wen, including
accusations of criminal conduct, which were intended to harm his professional
reputation (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 86-91). At the pleading stage, these
allegations are sufficient to state a claim for defamation. 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
Seventh cause of action: Unfair
Business Practices
Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because it is derivative of the
defamation and trespass claims, which they contend are insufficiently pleaded
(Demurrer, p. 11). However, as discussed above, the Court finds that the
defamation and trespass claims withstand demurrer at this stage. Accordingly,
the Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges that Cross-Defendants engaged in
unlawful and unfair business practices, including defamation and trespass, with
the intent to harm Cross-Complainants’ business operations and reputation
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 92-97). At the pleading stage, these allegations are
sufficient to state a claim under section 17200. The demurrer to the Seventh
Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
Eighth cause of action:
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because the Cross-Complaint does not
allege specific economic relationships with which Cross-Defendants interfered.
In response, Cross-Complainants argue that they have adequately alleged these
elements, pointing to their reasonable expectation of business with groups
seeking insurance in California, Nevada, and other states where they are
licensed, including their association with carriers like NLG (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 99). They further assert that they are active participants in the
Asian-American financial services industry and service many clients, which
supports their claim of existing relationships subject to disruption.
Under Youst
v. Longo (1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71, the elements of the tort of intentional
interference with prospective economic relationship (IIPER) include the
following: 
(a) An
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff. 
(b) The
defendant's knowledge of the relationship. 
(c)
Intentional acts by the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship. 
(d)
Actual disruption of the relationship. 
(e)
Economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant. 
(f)
Conduct that was wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of
interference Itself.  
“[W]hile intentionally interfering
with an existing contract is a wrong in and of itself, intentionally
interfering with a plaintiff's prospective economic advantage is not. To
establish a claim for interference with prospective economic advantage, therefore,
a plaintiff must plead that the defendant engaged in an independently wrongful
act. An act is not independently wrongful merely because the defendant acted
with an improper motive…We conclude, therefore, that an act is independently
wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal
standard.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1158–59, internal citations omitted.)  
Here, the
Court finds that California law does not require an existing contractual
relationship to state a claim for interference with prospective economic
advantage; rather, a probable economic relationship with the likelihood of
future benefit is sufficient (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1158–59; Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130).
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges the elements of
interference with prospective economic advantage. Cross-Complainants have
pleaded probable economic relationships, Cross-Defendants’ knowledge,
intentional and independently wrongful acts, actual disruption, and economic
harm across the Cross-Complaint.
Thus, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to this cause of action. 
Motion to strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.)
(1) Punitive Damages 
California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294(a).)  
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1).)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to defendant with the intention on the
part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
Punitive damages thus require more
than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) And specific facts must be pleaded in support of
punitive damages. (See Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d
374, 391-92.)  
Cross-Defendants seek to strike the
following: the prayer for punitive damages in connection with the Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action for Defamation (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 76, 85,
and 92) and the general prayer for punitive damages against Cross-Defendants
(Cross-Complaint, Prayer, ¶ 14:28).
Cross-Defendants argue that
generalized statements accusing them of "reckless disregard" and
"malicious intent" are insufficient to meet the heightened pleading
standard for punitive damages under Civil Code § 3294. They further claim that
the allegations lack factual detail, which cannot support an award of exemplary
damages (Motion, p. 7).
In opposition, Cross-Complainants
argue that their allegations are sufficient to support claims for punitive
damages at the pleading stage. They contend that the Cross-Complaint includes
specific allegations showing that Cross-Defendants knowingly made false and
defamatory statements with the intent to harm Cross-Complainants’ business
reputation (Opposition, p. 4). Cross-Complainants further assert that these
allegations demonstrate malice as defined by Civil Code § 3294(c)(1), which
includes intentional conduct carried out with a willful and conscious disregard
for the rights of others.
The Court finds that the
Cross-Complaint sufficiently alleges facts to support a claim for punitive
damages at the pleading stage. Cross-Complainants assert that Cross-Defendants
knowingly made false and defamatory statements with the intent to harm Cross-Complainants’
professional reputation and business relationships. Specifically, the
Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants falsely accused Alan Wen of
criminal conduct and disseminated these defamatory statements through emails
and social media, causing harm to Cross-Complainants’ business and standing in
the Asian-American financial services community (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 76, 85,
92, and Prayer, ¶ 14:28).
These allegations could establish
malice under Civil Code § 3294(c)(1), as they describe intentional conduct
carried out with a willful and conscious disregard for Cross-Complainants’
rights. 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
to strike is DENIED in its entirety.
IV.       ORDER
            The Court OVERRULES
the demurrer to the Cross-Complaint.
            Cross-Defendants
motion to strike is DENIED in whole.
            Cross-Defendants
are to give notice. 
            
Dated: January 9, 2025
                                                                        
 
 
 
             
 JARED D. MOSES  
             JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 