 Case Number:  YC072916    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR
COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                                                           Monday,
June 10, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                                  Calendar No. Add-On
 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
John Q. Rodgers v. HB Construction,
et al.
            YC072916
1.      HB
Construction’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees on Appeal

TENTATIVE RULING
 
HB
Construction’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees on Appeal is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff
filed his Complaint on May 30, 2018. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
and Defendant HB Construction entered into an oral contract wherein Defendant
agreed to perform construction and re-modification work on an office building
owned by Plaintiff.  Unknown to Plaintiff,
however, Defendant failed to have a valid contractor’s license. Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: 1. Declaratory Relief under CCP § 1060
and Bus. & Prof. Code § 7031(a); 2. Disgorgement under Bus. & Prof.
Code § 7031(b).   
 
Timothy
Roth, the owner of HB Construction initiated an arbitration proceeding seeking
compensation, in the form of capital credits, which he believed was owed to him
by Plaintiff under the operating agreement. The subject property was apparently
owned by an entity named 2601 PCH LLC which was formed by Plaintiff and Roth. The
arbitration commenced pursuant to an arbitration clause in the operating
agreement of 2601 PCH LLC.  The instant
action was stayed pending completion of arbitration. 
 
The
arbitration was heard by Judge Margaret M. Grignon (Retired).  Ultimately on October 9, 2019, Judge Grignon
issued her Arbitration Award. The parties disputed who actually prevailed in
the arbitration.  On February 17, 2021,
Plaintiff dismissed the instant action without prejudice. On October 4, 2021,
the Court granted Defendant’s motion for attorneys’ fees.  On December 27, 2023, the Court of Appeals
affirmed the trial Court’s order granting Defendant’s motion for attorneys’
fees. 
 
Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
 
Defendant
moves for an award of attorney’s fees on appeal in the amount of $26,388.00 as
the prevailing party on appeal pursuant to Civil Code § 1717.  Here, the moving party prevailed on appeal and
was not awarded costs on appeal.  An
award of appellate costs does not preclude a party from seeking attorney fees. The
statutory language does not specifically address the situation where a
prevailing party on appeal is not awarded costs. “Unless the court orders
otherwise, an award of costs neither includes attorney's fees on appeal nor
precludes a party from seeking them under rule 3.1702.” Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 8.278(d)(2). Thus, the language in the statute suggests that the appellate
court’s decision on costs does not affect the right to seek attorneys’ fees in
either scenario. The Court notes that the Appellate Court decision does not
address attorneys’ fees on appeal, at all.
 
The
Court will not repeat the underlying basis for the attorneys’ fees pursuant to
the contractual provision as set forth in the Court’s decision in 2021 and the
Court of Appeal’s decision to affirm the Court’s ruling in 2023.
 
“The
trial court has “broad authority” to determine the amount of a reasonable
attorneys’ fees.  PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.  “[T]he fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.”  Id.
[“California courts have consistently held that a computation of time spent on
a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a determination
of an appropriate attorneys' fee award.”]. 
“The experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of
professional services rendered in his court, and while his judgment is of
course subject to review, it will not be disturbed unless the appellate court
is convinced that it is clearly wrong.”  Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132 (internal quotation omitted.)  
 
Thus,
Defendant is entitled to attorneys’ fees under the lodestar method based on the
reasonable amount of time the attorney spent multiplied by a reasonable rate.  Defendant’s counsel has provided a list of the
numerous post-judgment tasks that he undertook on this case, the hours
expended, his qualifications and experience, and his hourly rate of $390.00 per
hour.  (Decl., Einar Wm. Johnson, ¶¶ 4-8.)
 The Court finds that the hourly rate is reasonable
considering the facts of this case and the attorney’s experience.  The Court finds that Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient to determine whether the amount of time expended was
reasonable. Defendant’s counsel’s declaration set forth the total hours expended,
and the nature of the services provided within the hours expended. “[A]n award
of attorney fees may be based on counsel's declarations, without production of
detailed time records.”  Raining Data
Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.  
 
Therefore,
the Court awards attorneys’ fees on appeal in favor of Defendant in the total
amount of $26,388.00.
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.