  Case Number:  23TRCV03182    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                                           Monday,
June 10, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Karen Johnston as Successor Trustee of the Morrow
Family Trust Dated July 9, 1998 v.
Stacey Morrow, et al. 
            23TRCV03182
1.      Stacey
Morrow’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Stacey Morrow’s Motion to Quash Service of
Summons is granted.            
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on September 26, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following
facts. Plaintiff is the legal owner of property located at 5017 W. 142nd
Street, Hawthorne CA 90250. Defendant was allowed to remain at the property
pending the exercise of Defendant’s right to purchase the property within six
months after the death of settlor. Defendant did not purchase the property
within the six-month period. Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for Ejectment.

 
            Motion
to Quash 
 
            Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.10 states: 
            “A
summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed
complete at the time of such delivery. The date upon which personal delivery is
made shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the summons at
the time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such date shall
be valid and effective.”
 
            Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20 states, in relevant part: 
            “(a)
In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the
person to be served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or
416.50, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is
known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal
Service post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof,
and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class
mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy
of the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a
person at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing.”
 
            Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10 states, in relevant part: “(a) A defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the
court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one
or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”
 
            Substantial compliance requires a showing
of the following: there must be some degree of compliance, that the
circumstances show that it was highly probable that attempted service imparted
the same notice as full compliance, and that the attempted service provided
sufficient notice to Defendant to put on a defense. Carol Gilbert, Inc. v.
Haller (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 852, 865-66.
 
            Pursuant
to CCP § 418.10(a)(1), Defendant moves to quash service of the summons on the
grounds that she was not properly served with the summons and complaint under CCP
§ 415.10. Defendant contends that she was never personally served as reflected
in the proof of service. But, in fact, Defendant states that the trustee Plaintiff
broke into the residence with the process server and left the summons and
complaint in the foyer. 
 
            Plaintiff
filed no written opposition to this motion. Unlike the typical motion where the
moving party has the burden of proof, here the Plaintiff has the burden of
proof. “When a defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the
ground of improper service of process the burden is on the plaintiff to prove …
the facts requisite to an effective service.”  Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
403, 413 (internal quotes omitted).
 
            Therefore,
Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons is granted. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.