 Case Number:  24AHCV00135    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S
COUNSEL’S MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
This
case involves claims for negligence and medical malpractice against a doctor
and the Regents of the University of California.  Attorney Steven P. Goldberg moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff,
asserting that “[t]here has been a breakdown in attorney/client relationship.”Tentative RulingThe Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff filed by Steven
P. Goldberg, Esq. is GRANTED.Legal Analysis “The question of
granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code
Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of
the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice
in the handling of the case.’ [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The Court should also consider whether the
attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the
client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v.
Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support of an
attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made
on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial
Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought
instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of
service evidencing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and
proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the
case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).)Counsel for
Plaintiff, Steven P. Goldberg, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) and California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362.  A declaration on
Judicial Council Form MC-052 accompanies the motion, as required by California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, stating: “There has been a breakdown in
attorney/client relationship.”  Proof of
service of the motion was served on Plaintiff and on counsel for Defendants on
August 13, 2024.No oppositions have
been filed.The Court finds good
cause to grant the request to be relieved as counsel.  Plaintiff will not be prejudiced if counsel’s
motion is granted.  There is sufficient
time for Plaintiff to engage new counsel and/or request a continuance before
the next hearing, the latter of which is a Trial Setting Conference on November
13, 2024.  Regarding the latter, counsel
properly noted the remaining hearings in his MC-052 form.ConclusionThe Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff filed by Steven P. Goldberg, Esq. is granted.  Counsel is ordered to file proof of service of the signed MC-053 on Plaintiff and all other parties within five court days after the date of this order.