 Case Number:  23STCV16842    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  14 #6Case Background
This is an action for fraudulent conveyance and for a
creditor’s suit under Code Civ. Proc., section 708.210. Plaintiff alleges that Young
No Lee, Eun Joo Lee, and other Defendants began shifting income, assets, sales,
and business from Defendant Dollar Fashions, Inc. (DFI) to other business and
to themselves, leaving DFI insolvent. DFI became indebted to Plaintiff in the
amount of $300,000 in trade debt after Plaintiff sold supplies for the apparel
industry to DFI. After Plaintiff filed a lawsuit against DFI, Young No and Eun
Joo Lee transferred DFI’s property to Eun Joo Lee. In July 2019, Eun Joo Lee
transferred the property to her company, Defendant 1114 LA Street, Inc. (1114
LA). Defendants made these transfers to prevent Plaintiff and other creditors
from recovering against DFI and Eun Joo Lee.
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff FCI Group, LLC filed its
Complaint against 1114 LA and DFI.
On July 2, 2024, Defendants filed this demurrer and
motion to strike.
Instant Pleading
Defendants demur to the Complaint and move to strike paragraph
26.
Decision
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendants are to file an answer to the Complaint
within 10 days of this order.
Judicial Notice
Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice
of the order dismissing the Lee Defendants from another action, 18STCV03041
(the 2018 case), a stipulated judgment entered against DFI in the 2018 case, a
marriage dissolution decree, and a grant deed transferring property from Young
No Lee to Eun Joo Lee. 
The requests are granted. However, the Court may not take judicial notice
of the truth of the matters asserted in these documents. Although a
court may take judicial notice of court records and files, judicial notice is
limited to matters that are indisputably true. (Evid. Code, section 452(d); Arce
v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.)
The truth of the matters asserted in these records is not subject to judicial
notice. (Arce at p.483.) A court may take judicial notice of a
document’s legal effect. (Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca
Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 600.)
Discussion
Demurrer
Defendants demur to the first and second causes of
action on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to
support a cause of action against them.
The Court notes that Plaintiff filed an amended
complaint on September 20, 2024. However, Plaintiff was required to file the
amended complaint by the time the opposition was due under Code Civ. Proc.,
section 472(a). Here, Plaintiff filed the amended complaint too late, just two
calendar days before the hearing on this motion. Therefore, the amended
complaint is stricken and the demurrer will proceed as scheduled.
1.    
First Cause of Action – Fraudulent Conveyance
Defendants first argue that the first cause of action is time-barred.
A fraudulent conveyance under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act
(“UFTA”) involves “a transfer by the debtor of property to a third person
undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to
satisfy its claim.” (Filip v. Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825,
829.) A transfer under the UFTA is fraudulent as to a creditor if the debtor
made the transfer with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor
of the debtor. (See Civ. Code, section 3439.04(a); Filip, supra, 129 Cal.App.4th
at 829.)
A constructive fraudulent transfer cause of action under the UFTA must
be brought within four years after the transfer was made or the obligation was
incurred or, if later, not later than one year after the transfer or obligation
was or could reasonably have been discovered by the claimant. (See Civ. Code,
section 3439.09(a)-(b).) Furthermore, notwithstanding any other provision of
law, a claim under the UFTA must be brought within seven years after the
transfer was made or the obligation was incurred. (Id., subd. (c).)
Here, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff relied on DFI’s assets for
payment, including a building located at 1114 S. Los Angeles St., Los Angeles,
CA 90015, which Defendants told Plaintiff it owned. (Compl., ¶¶12, 14.) Eun Joo
Lee made the alleged fraudulent transfer to 1114 LA, a company she was a member
of, on July 18, 2019. (Compl., ¶18.) 
The Court granted Defendants’ request for judicial notice of a grant
deed dated December 19, 2019 wherein Eun Joo and Young No Lee transferred the
property to Eun Joo Lee. (RJN Exh. D.) The grant deed was recorded on March 22,
2019. (Id.) Defendants argue that this is the alleged fraudulent
transfer and that the deadline for Plaintiff to file a lawsuit was March 22,
2023. 
It does not appear that the December 19, 2019 transfer is the transfer
which is the subject of this lawsuit. The Complaint alleges that Eun Joo Lee
transferred the subject property to 1114 LA on July 18, 2019. The grant deed shows
a transfer from Eun Joo and Young No Lee to Eun Joo Lee, not a transfer from
Eun Joo Lee to 1114 LA. Therefore, the grant deed does not reflect the transfer
described in the Complaint. Plaintiff’s deadline to file this action was July
18, 2023, the date this lawsuit was filed, according to the facts alleged in
the Complaint. Therefore, this action was timely filed.
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED because
this action was timely filed within four years of the alleged fraudulent
transfer.
2.    
Second Cause of Action – Creditor’s Suit
Defendants next argue that the second cause of action against them fails
because DFI was never an owner of the property and there is no evidence that
DFI ever transferred the property to Young No or Eun Joo Lee.
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.210 provides “If a third person has
possession or control of property in which the judgment debtor has an interest
or is indebted to the judgment debtor, the judgment creditor may bring an
action against the third person to have the interest or debt applied to the
satisfaction of the money judgment.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 708.210.)
Here, Defendants allege that DFI never had an interest in the subject
property. Although Defendants submitted the grant deed showing the property was
transferred from Eun Joo and Young No Lee to Eun Joo Lee, the grant deed does
not show that the property was never owned by DFI or that DFI had no interest
in the property. Whether DFI in fact ever had an interest in the property is a
dispute of fact which may not be resolved through a demurrer. Defendants’
assertions that DFI never had an interest in the property are facts extraneous
to the Complaint which may not be considered on demurrer.
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED because
Defendants’ arguments rely on facts extraneous to the Complaint. 
Motion to Strike
Defendants move to strike paragraph 26 from the Complaint on the grounds
that the Complaint fails to state allegations against any of the defendants
that would allow for the imposition of punitive damages. 
In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the
elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section
3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704,
721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
Here, Defendants allege that the alleged fraudulent transfers were part
of the Lee Defendants’ divorce and that the transfer was not done with intent
to defraud FCI. As discussed above, the grant deed provided by Defendants does
not appear to reflect the transfer that is the subject of this lawsuit.
Additionally, whether the subject property was in fact owned by DFI and whether
the Lees intended to defraud Plaintiff is a dispute of fact which may not be resolved
through a motion to strike. 
The cause of action for fraudulent conveyance survives demurrer. Plaintiff
states a claim for punitive damages because it alleges that Defendants engaged
in fraudulent conduct. Therefore, the Complaint states sufficient facts to
support a claim for punitive damages. 
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED because Defendants’ arguments
rely on facts extraneous to the Complaint and because the Complaint alleges
sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages.
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendants are to file an answer to the Complaint
within 10 days of this order.