  Case Number:  21STCV47403    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
This is a lemon law case.
On December 29, 2021, Plaintiff Fernanda Arce filed her
Complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
On April 18, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for
summary adjudication.
On July 29, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to maintain
confidentiality of documents and associated testimony.
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
motion for summary adjudication.
On August 15, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to the
motion for summary adjudication.
On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to
continue trial. 
On September 19, 2024, Defendant AHM filed an
opposition to the motion to continue trial.
On September 20, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte motion to advance the hearing on the motion to continue trial to
September 23, 2024.
Instant Pleading
Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the third
cause of action for fraudulent inducement. Defendant also moves to seal
evidence submitted in support of the motion.
Defendant moves to continue trial.
Decision
The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
Plaintiff’s request to seal documents lodged in support
of this motion is GRANTED.
Defendant’s request for certification under Code Civ.
Proc., section 166.1 is DENIED.
Defendant’s motion to continue trial is DENIED. 
Objections
Plaintiff objects to the deposition testimony Defendant
submitted in support of the motion for summary adjudication. Objections 1 and 2
are SUSTAINED.
Documents filed conditionally under seal
Plaintiff filed documents conditionally under seal and
lodged them with the Court. Specifically, Plaintiff lodged Exhibits 1-8 to the
declaration of Tach Tran under seal. Plaintiff is warned that in the future,
she is required to file a motion to seal accompanied by a supporting memorandum
and declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing within ten
days of lodging the documents to be sealed. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(b)(1), (b)(3)(B). Here, because the documents filed conditionally under
seal include documents designated confidential subject to the parties’ protective
order, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to file these documents under seal.
Discussion: Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the cause
of action for fraudulent inducement on the grounds that the cause of action is
barred by the economic loss doctrine. Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot
establish a special or transactional relationship with Defendant such that
Defendant had a duty to disclose information to her, Plaintiff cannot prove
active concealment by Defendant, and Plaintiff cannot prove damages caused by
Defendant’s alleged fraudulent concealment. Defendant requests that the Court
certify the issue for appellate review under Code Civ. Proc., section 166.1 if it
rules that the economic loss doctrine does not bar the claim.
Although Defendant argues extensively that it made no
misrepresentations, there is no dispute that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
fraud is based on allegations that Defendant concealed the existence of defects
with her Honda Accord when she purchased the vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶31, 71, 131,
132.) 
With respect to the argument that Plaintiff is only
seeking economic damages for the alleged fraudulent conduct, the economic loss
requires purchasers to recover in contract for pure economic loss if a contract
exists between the litigating parties. (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) The rule does not state that all tort claims
involving pure economic loss are barred. As will be discussed below, California
courts recognize circumstances where the same conduct constituting a breach of
contract would also be tortious, placing the dispute outside the economic loss
rule. The parties dispute whether this dispute falls within the economic loss
rule. Thus, this motion turns on whether the economic loss rule bars
Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraudulent inducement by concealment.
1.    
Economic Loss Rule
The economic loss rule posits that a purchaser of
a product that does not live up to the buyer’s expectations can only recover in
contract and not tort, “unless [the purchaser] can demonstrate harm above and
beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe
Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (quoting Robinson
Helicopter Company, Inc. v. Dana Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988).) Conduct
constituting a breach of contract may become tortious if it also violates a
duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law or arises
from conduct that is both intentional and intended to harm. (Robinson
Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 989, 990.) A tort claim for fraud must be
sufficiently independent from a breach of contract claim for which the
plaintiff suffered economic loss. (Id. at p. 991.) The court in Robinson Helicopter
declined to examine whether intentional concealment constituted an
independent tort and stated its holding was narrow and only applied to the
intentional misrepresentations made in that case. (Id.) 
Absent a fiduciary relationship between the
parties (which Plaintiff does not allege here), a duty to disclose can arise in
only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the
material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the material fact; or (3)
the defendant made partial representations while also suppressing the material
fact. (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311 (Bigler-Engler); LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit
based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”
(Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)
Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff will rely erroneously on Dhital v. Nissan
North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th, 828 (Dhital) and that the
case has no binding or precedential authority. 
In
Dhital, “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan
dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that
Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of
Nissan vehicles to consumers. (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843.) The court found that the economic loss rule
does not bar causes of action for fraudulent inducement by concealment because
fraudulent inducement claims wall within an exception to the economic loss
rule, citing Robinson Helicopter. (Id. at p.841.) The
court held that fraudulent inducement, regardless of whether it is achieved by
intentional concealment or intentional misrepresentations, is independent conduct
from a breach of contract. (Id.) Although
the California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital, the case remains
published and has persuasive value. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (Cal.
2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82; Cal. Rules of Court Rule 8.1115(e)(1).) Thus, the Court may consider Dhital
and its reasoning as persuasive.
Defendant
also argues that Robinson Helicopter excludes fraudulent concealment
claims from the exceptions to the economic loss rule. Although the court in Robinson Helicopter limited its
holding to the intentional misrepresentation claims there, the case does not
stand to bar all fraudulent inducement by concealment claims under the economic
loss rule. The court there merely declined to consider the issue. Therefore, Robinson
Helicopter does not require a plaintiff to show that a defendant made
affirmative misrepresentations to fall outside of the economic loss rule. 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to
disclose defects with the subject vehicle’s computerized driver-assistance
safety system and the collision mitigating braking system at the time of
purchase or repair. (Compl., ¶71.) Additionally, Defendant never made
information about the defect publicly available. (Compl., ¶130.) The Complaint
also alleges that Defendant actively concealed the defects and prevented
Plaintiff from discovering them. (Compl., ¶131.) 
Because the Complaint alleges Defendant had
exclusive knowledge of the defects and actively concealed the defects at the
time of Plaintiff’s purchase and subsequent repairs, Plaintiff pled sufficient
facts to show that Defendant had a duty to disclose the subject defects.
Defendant fails to provide evidence of whether it had exclusive knowledge of
the defects or actively concealed the defects. Thus, Defendant fails to show it
did not have a duty to disclose the subject defects. Therefore, the Court finds
that Defendant had a duty sufficiently independent from its duties under the
parties’ warranty to support a tort claim for fraud. Defendant fails to meet
its burden on summary judgment of proving no triable issue of material fact
remains over whether the cause of action for fraud by concealment is barred by
the economic loss rule. The burden does not shift to Plaintiff.
At oral argument, Defendant brought to the
Court’s attention the existence of new authority on the economic loss rule, Rattagan
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 324 Cal.Rptr.3d 433, 449 (Rattagan).)
In Rattagan, the court there held that tort recovery for breach of
contractual duty is barred unless a defendant’s conduct violated a duty that is
independent of the duties and rights assumed by the parties when they entered
the contract and the conduct caused injury to the person not reasonably
contemplated by the parties when the contract was formed. (Rattagan at
p. 1224.) The court also held that fraud based on concealment may fall within
the exception to the economic loss rule because concealment is treated equally
to fraud based on affirmative misrepresentation. (Id. at pp.1237-1248.) To
determine whether a cause of action arises from a duty independent of the
parties’ contractual rights and obligations, a court must consider the scope of
the parties’ contractual agreement, whether there is an independent tort duty
to refrain from the alleged conduct, and whether the plaintiff can establish
all elements of the tort independently of the rights and duties assumed by the
parties under the contract. (Id. at p.1228.) 
The Rattagan court cited Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 923 as an example of when a tort
duty was not independent of a party’s contractual duties and rights. There a
plaintiff sued his bank after the bank rejected his loan modification request,
leading to his home being sold at a foreclosure auction. (Rattagan at
p.1229.) The plaintiff alleged that because the bank rejected the modification
request, plaintiff forewent alternatives to foreclosure, causing plaintiff’s
home to be sold at foreclosure. However, because the plaintiff and his bank had
anticipated the possibility that the loans would not be paid and specifically
provided for remedies, the conduct was not independent of the contract. (Id.)
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of
action for fraud is barred because Plaintiff did not allege he suffered any
physical injury or that there was any physical damage to property other than to
the vehicle itself. However, Rattagan does not stand to limit tort
recovery to damages for physical injury or damage. Rather, the court in Rattagan,
examining Robinson Helicopter, noted that where a defendant
breaches an independent tort duty, the defendant also exposes a plaintiff to a
risk of harm beyond those contemplated in the parties’ contract. (Rattagan at
p.1233.) Thus, even if a plaintiff only alleges economic losses, a plaintiff
may recover damages for the breach of duty independent of the contract. 
As discussed above, Plaintiff alleged facts which
show Defendant owed a duty to disclose the subject defects. There is no
evidence that the duty to disclose was encompassed by the parties’ warranty. Defendant
likewise provides no evidence that the parties considered or allocated the risk
that Defendant and its agents would conceal safety defects within the subject
vehicle at the time the contract was formed. Thus, there is no evidence that
the duty to disclose is dependent upon the warranty. The facts here are
distinguishable from the scenario described in Sheen. The economic loss
rule does not bar Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud based on concealment
because the cause of action arises from a tort duty independent from the warranty.
Therefore, Rattagan does not change the Court’s analysis of the economic
loss rule here. The Court finds that it does not.   
Summary adjudication is DENIED on this ground.
2.    
Existence of a special or transactional relationship
The California Supreme Court “has described
the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’
between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7
Cal.App.5th at p. 311.) 
Here,
Defendant, citing Bigler-Engler, argues that there is no special or
transactional relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant because Plaintiff
did not purchase the vehicle directly from Defendant and because Defendant
could not control the actions of the dealership which sold the vehicle.
However, Defendant concedes that it entered into a warranty with Plaintiff.
(UMF No. 2.) Additionally, the Complaint alleges that authorized sales
representatives and service technicians were agents of Defendant and failed to
disclose the subject defects. (Compl., ¶¶89-91.) Defendant provides no evidence
of whether the sales representatives or service technicians were its agents. 
Although
Defendant argues there is no evidence Defendant had control over the dealership
where Plaintiff purchased her vehicle, Defendant relies on portions of
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony which state that she called American Honda about
inspecting the vehicle and obtained a case number, that Plaintiff could not
remember the exactly when she contacted American Honda, and that there were no
other discussions besides the inspections during these phone calls. (UMF No. 32;
Arce Depo. at 172:9 – 173:19; 175:9-15; 177:10-15; 179:11-18;
180:16-19.) This evidence does not show whether the
dealership or its employees were in fact agents of Defendant because these
deposition excerpts merely describe how Plaintiff requested inspections of the
vehicle. Plaintiff would not know whether the dealership was an agent of
Defendant. The factual issue of whether the dealership and its employees were agents
of Defendant and transacted with Plaintiff remains. Therefore, Defendant fails
to meet its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact exists over
whether a transaction existed between Defendant and Plaintiff. The burden does
not shift to Plaintiff.
Summary adjudication is DENIED on this ground.
3.     Certification for appellate review under Code Civ. Proc.,
section 166.1
Defendants
request that the Court certify the economic loss rule issue for
appellate review under Code Civ. Proc., section 166.1 if it rules that the
economic loss doctrine does not bar the claim.
Code
of Civil Procedure section 166.1 provides in pertinent part: 
“Upon
the written request of any party or his or her counsel, or at the judge's
discretion, a judge may indicate in any interlocutory order a belief that there
is a controlling question of law as to which there are substantial grounds for
difference of opinion, appellate resolution of which may materially advance the
conclusion of the litigation . . ..” (Code Civ. Proc., section 166.1.) 
Here,
the Court finds that appellate review of the economic loss doctrine would not materially
advance the conclusion of the entire matter because the cause of action for
fraud is just one of many causes of action having to do with the defective
vehicle. The Court, in its discretion, declines to certify this order for
review under Civ. Code, section 166.1
Discussion:
Motion to Continue Trial
Plaintiff
moves to continue trial on the grounds that Plaintiff requires more time to
complete her expert witness deposition. Plaintiff’s counsel represents that the
parties agreed to depose Plaintiff’s expert witness, Anthony Micale, on
September 13, 2024. (Lupinek Decl., ¶3.) Due to technical difficulty, the
deposition was not completed on that date. (Id., ¶8.) Defendant AHM
opposes the motion on the grounds that deposing Micale again would increase the
cost to AHM and prejudice AHM. Plaintiff moved separately to reopen discovery
for the limited purpose of concluding Plaintiff’s expert deposition. 
After
oral argument, the Court finds that no good cause exists to continue trial and
reopen discovery. 
Conclusion
The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
Plaintiff’s request to seal documents lodged in support
of this motion is GRANTED.
Defendant’s request for certification under Code Civ.
Proc., section 166.1 is DENIED. 
Defendant’s motion to continue trial is DENIED.