 Case Number:  23AHCV02484    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



STACY LOPEZ-PADILLA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RESURRECTION
   CEMETERY, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02484
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO
   REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY
   SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   14, 2024



 
On October 26,
 2023, plaintiff Stacy Lopez-Padilla (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (“Defendant”)
(erroneously sued as “Resurrection Cemetery” and “Catholic Cemeteries &
Mortuaries”). Plaintiff alleges that on October 26, 2021, she fell in a dip in
a turf in Defendant’s cemetery. 
On June 4,
 2024, Defendant served Requests for Production of Documents
(Set One) on Plaintiff. No responses were received by the deadline
and Plaintiff did not request an extension to the deadline to serve responses.
Defendant filed this motion on July 29, 2024. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) A party that fails to serve timely
responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff
did not oppose the Motion and it is undisputed responses were not served. Accordingly,
 Defendant’s motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff
is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to Defendant’s
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) within 20 days of the date of
this Order. 
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) The Court finds evidence of
neither. Therefore, Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED
and imposed against Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the reduced amount of $405.00
for 1
hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $345.00
and $60.00
in filing fees, to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order.
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 14th
day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 