 Case Number:  23AHCV02704    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EFRAIN DE LA FUENTE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02704
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS, LLC’S DEMURER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   14, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         Plaintiff
Efrain de la Fuente (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant General
Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) on November 17, 2023. On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Plaintiff asserts causes
of action for fraud, violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“SBA”), and violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200 et seq.
(“UCL”) arising from his acquisition of a 2021 Chevrolet Bolt on March 15, 2021.
(FAC, ¶ 6.) 
          On
June 24, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s fraud and UCL claims on the grounds that they fail to
state sufficient facts. Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs request for
exemplary or punitive damages. 
Plaintiff
filed a combined opposition brief on October 5, 2024. 
Defendant
filed a combined reply brief on November 1, 2024. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
1.  
Fourth
Cause of Action: Fraud
Defendant first demurs to Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for fraud on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to plead a
claim for affirmative fraudulent misrepresentations with specificity. California
law requires that every element of a fraud cause of action “must be alleged in
the proper manner[,] and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with
sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the
charge made.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
Here, the Complaint alleges a litany of
misrepresentations allegedly made in marketing materials for the Chevrolet
Bolt’s battery range and charging capabilities from 2015 to 2020. However, the
only actionable misrepresentation appears to be limited to a marketing brochure
for the 2020 Chevrolet Bolt (which is a different model year than the vehicle
at issue in this litigation). (FAC, ¶ 30-32.) In this brochure, Defendant
allegedly represented that the Chevrolet Bolt could be charged safely at home
in the garage to full capacity. Plaintiff alleged he reviewed this brochure and
relied upon it prior to purchasing his vehicle, but Plaintiff does not specifically
identify when the marketing brochure was reviewed. (See Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Plaintiff also does not allege
specific facts demonstrating Defendant's knowledge of the purported battery
defect and risk of fire at the time Plaintiff purchased his vehicle. Plaintiff
only alleges that in March 2019 Defendant “became aware of the first battery
fire involving the Chevrolet Bolt,” but does not allege that it was aware of
the reasons for the fire or that charging the batteries to 100 percent would be
unsafe. Plaintiff refers to a warning issued in 2017 by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration advising that “overcharging lithium ion batteries, such
as the battery in the Bolt, can result in spontaneous ignition.” (FAC ,¶ 23.)
However, “overcharging” a battery is different from charging batteries to full
capacity. Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to plead affirmative misrepresentations
with the requisite specificity. 
Next, Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s
theory of fraudulent concealment. In Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 43, the California Supreme Court stated that a plaintiff
must allege a sufficient factual basis for establishing a duty of disclosure
independent of the parties contract. “A duty to disclose a material fact can
arise if (1) it is imposed by statute; (2) the defendant is acting as
plaintiff's fiduciary or is in some other confidential relationship with
plaintiff that imposes a disclosure duty under the circumstances; (3) the
material facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows
those facts are not known or reasonably discoverable by plaintiff (i.e.,
exclusive knowledge); (4) the defendant makes representations but fails to
disclose other facts that materially qualify the facts disclosed or render the
disclosure misleading (i.e., partial concealment); or (5) defendant actively
conceals discovery of material fact from plaintiff (i.e., active concealment).”
(Id., p. 40.) The Rattagan court continued, “Circumstances (3),
(4), and (5) presuppose a preexisting relationship between the parties, such as
‘between seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and
patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.
[Citation.] All of these relationships are created by transactions between
parties from which a duty to disclose facts material to the transaction arises
under certain circumstances.’ (Id., pp. 40-41 [citing LiMandri v.
Judkins 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337].) 60 Cal.Rptr.2d 539.) “Such a transaction
must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.” (Id.,
p. 41[citing Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312].)

Here, Defendant argues, and the Court
agrees, that Plaintiff fails to allege a duty of disclosure. Plaintiff admittedly
did not purchase his vehicle directly from Defendant, but from a third-party
dealership which acted as Defendant’s agent for sales purposes. Plaintiff
relies on Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
828, 844, in which the Court of Appeal held that identical agency allegations regarding
a dealership and manufacturer were sufficient to state a relationship giving
rise to a duty to disclose. However, district courts have cast doubt on the analysis
in Dhital, especially in light of the Dhital court’s
acknowledgment that the issue of a transactional relationship was not fully
briefed. (See e.g., Antonov v. General Motors LLC (C.D. Cal. 2024) 2024
WL 217825, at *11.) Therefore, in order to successfully state a duty to
disclose, Plaintiff must include specific allegations regarding the existence
and nature of the transactional relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant. (See
Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 312.)
Additionally, as stated above,
Plaintiff fails to allege with specificity the facts demonstrating Defendant's
knowledge of the purported battery defect and risk of fire at the time
Plaintiff purchased his vehicle. In Rattagan, the California Supreme
Court emphasized that “California courts apply the same specificity standard to
evaluate the factual underpinnings of a fraudulent concealment claim at the
pleading stage, even though the focus of the inquiry shifts to the unique
elements of the claim.” (Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 43.) The
Rattagan court stated that a fraudulent concealment claim must include
“specific allegations”, including “(1) the content of the omitted facts, (2)
defendant's awareness of the materiality of those facts, (3) the
inaccessibility of the facts to plaintiff, (4) the general point at which the
omitted facts should or could have been revealed, and (5) justifiable and
actual reliance, either through action or forbearance, based on the defendant's
omission.” (Id., pp. 43-44.) “[M]ere conclusionary allegations that the
omissions were intentional and for the purpose of defrauding and deceiving
plaintiff[ ] ... are insufficient for the foregoing purposes.” (Ibid.
[citing Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 347].)
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
2.  
Fifth
Cause of Action: Violation of UCL 
The UCL prohibits unfair competition,
including the use of unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices. (BPC §
17200 et seq.) Since the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
fraud claim, the Court only addresses Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff does
not allege any unfair or unlawful activity. 
First, unlawful business practices
under BPC section 17200 are "violations of other laws…and makes those
unlawful practices actionable under the UCL." (Lazar v. Hertz Corp.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1505). To allege a violation of section 17200 under
the “unlawful” prong of the UCL, a violation of another law must be alleged. (Berryman
v. Merit Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) Here,
in addition to alleging violations of the SBA, Plaintiff has adequately stated
a claim for unfair competition by alleging violations of Business and
Professions Code section 17500 et seq.
Second, a business practice is “unfair”
when “any injury it causes outweighs any benefits provided to consumers and the
injury is one that the consumers themselves could not reasonably avoid.” (Camacho
v. Auto Club of Southern California (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1403.) Here,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that Defendant’s use of the allegedly defective
battery did not benefit Plaintiff (FAC, ¶ 111) and caused injuries to consumers
and Plaintiff (¶¶ 112-114), thus creating risks which outweighed the benefits.
(See McKell v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.)  
Last, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has not established equitable jurisdiction for his UCL claim. (Demurrer, p.
21.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff must allege that “there is no adequate
remedy at law available” because the UCL only provides equitable remedies. Defendant
claims that because Plaintiff has adequate remedies at law under the SBA,
Plaintiff’s UCL claim should be dismissed. This argument is unpersuasive
because it is contrary to the language provided in Business and Professions
Code section 17205, which states: “Unless otherwise expressly provided, the
remedies or penalties are cumulative to each other and to the remedies or
penalties available under all other laws of this state.” Defendant also claims
that Plaintiff is required to plead an actual or imminent threat of future
injury to obtain injunctive relief, but Defendant ignores Plaintiff’s
allegation that the use of a defective battery “causes injuries to consumers,
like Plaintiff, who cannot use their vehicle commensurate with their reasonable
expectations.” (FAC, ¶¶ 112-114.)
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for exemplary and punitive damages. Since the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fraud claim, Plaintiff’s FAC fails to include any basis
for punitive damages. (See Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries, Inc.
(1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 227–228 [determining that punitive damages are not
recoverable under the Song–Beverly Consumer Warranty Act]; Bank of the West
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 125, 1266 [no damages for UCL
action].) Therefore, the motion to strike is GRANTED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 day’s leave to amend. 
Defendant’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED.
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 14th day of November
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 