 Case Number:  23STCV05681    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
NASER RABIZADEH;
  SHARON RABIZADEH, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
provident title company; commerce escrow company; et al.
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23STCV05681
 
  Hearing Date: October 24, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant provident title company’s
  demurrer to the FIRST AMENDED complaint



 
Procedural Background
            On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Naser
Rabizadeh and Sharon Rabizadeh (jointly “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant action
against Defendants Provident Title Company (“Provident”) and Commerce Escrow
Company (“Commerce”) (jointly “Defendants”). 
On May 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants Provident and Commerce.  The FAC asserts six causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Negligence, (4) Slander
of Title, (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6) Tort of
Another.
            On June 23, 2023, Defendant Provident
filed the instant demurrer to the FAC. 
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  On October 17, 2023, Defendant Commerce filed
a reply.
 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
            The FAC alleges the following:
            In January 2021, Plaintiffs were the
owners of two real properties – 5811
Topeka Drive, Tarzana, California and 5815 Topeka Drive, Tarzana,
California.  (FAC ¶ 9.)  
            In January 2021,
Plaintiffs contracted with Defendants to assist with the sale of the real
property located at 5815 Topeka Drive, Tarzana, California.  (FAC ¶ 10.) 
“In or about March 2021, Defendants made an egregious error in the legal
description attached to the Grant Deed for the conveyance of the 5815 Topeka
Drive residence and mistakenly conveyed both of Plaintiffs’ homes in the sale,
instead of one, and failed to discover or remedy the mistake in a timely
manner.”  (FAC ¶ 11, Exh. 1.)
            In 2022, Plaintiffs
became aware of this issue due to not receiving their tax bills for the 5811
Topeka Drive property – which Plaintiffs continued to pay online.  (FAC ¶¶ 12-13.)  Upon contacting the Tax Assessor’s office, Plaintiffs
were informed that the Tax Assessor’s files did not show Plaintiffs as the
owners of 5811 Topeka Drive any longer. 
(FAC ¶ 14.)
            Plaintiffs hired an
attorney to investigate this problem. 
Plaintiffs’ attorney discovered the issue with the 2021 Grant Deed
erroneously transferring both properties and not merely just the 5815 Topeka
Drive property.  (FAC ¶¶ 15-16.)  
            “Plaintiffs' attorney
notified Defendants of the error in 2022 and spent many further months of work
on this matter, including but not limited to, further investigation, management
of the remediation process including continuously prompting Defendants to work
on rectifying their egregious mistake and assisting them in such, consulting
real property and tax experts on the proper remedy for the mistaken sale as
well as the property tax implications, substantive work with the County
Assessor's Office, going through all proper steps and procuring documents
necessary to rectify the chain of title to meet the County Assessor's
requirements in order to reverse all negative tax implications, including the
vastly increased tax liability as well as all interest and penalties.”  (FAC ¶ 17.)
 
Legal Standard
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)
Defendant Provident
has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.  (Johnson Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
Discussion
First Cause of Action:
Breach of Contract
            Defendant Provident contends that the first cause of
action for breach of contract fails because Provident is not a party to the
written contract.
            “The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are:
‘(1) the contract,
(2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant's breach, and (4)
the resulting damages to plaintiff.’”  (Coles
v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391 [internal citations omitted].)
 “A contract is an agreement to do or not
to do a certain thing.”  (Civ. Code, §
1549.)  The essential elements of a contract are parties capable of
contracting; their consent; a lawful object; and a sufficient cause or consideration.  (Civ. Code, § 1550.)  “To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, it is absolutely essential to plead the terms of the contract either
in haec verba or according to legal effect.” (Progressive West Ins. Co. v. Yolo County Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 270, Fn. 1.)
            Here, the FAC alleges in relevant
part that “Plaintiffs and Defendants Provident, Commerce, and DOES 1-10,
entered into a written agreement.”  (FAC
¶ 19, Exh. 2.)  However, the attached
written agreement consists of the supplemental and amended escrow instructions
between Plaintiffs and Defendant Commerce. 
(FAC, Exh. 2.)  The attached
exhibits take precedence over contrary allegations of the FAC.  (Moran
v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1145–1146, [“While
the ‘allegations [of a complaint] must be accepted as true for purposes of
demurrer,’ the ‘facts appearing in exhibits attached to the complaint will also
be accepted as true and, if contrary to the allegations in the pleading, will
be given precedence.’ ”].)   Thus, the
attached exhibits make clear that Defendant Provident is not a party to the
alleged written contract between Plaintiffs and Defendant Commerce.  
            Because plaintiffs fail to allege any contract between
Plaintiffs and Defendant Provident, there can be no breach of said nonexistent
contract.  To the extent that Plaintiffs
contend that they are third party beneficiaries of some unspecified agreement
to which Defendant Provident is a party, Plaintiffs have not alleged nor
identified such a contract.  Accordingly,
Defendant Provident ’s demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Second Cause of Action:
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            Defendant Provident asserts that the second cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty fails because Plaintiffs fail to allege
facts giving rise to a fiduciary duty.
            “‘The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) the breach of
that duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.’”  (IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 630, 646, [internal citation omitted].)  A fiduciary duty is founded upon a special
relationship imposed by law or under circumstances in which “confidence is
reposed by persons in the integrity of others” who voluntarily accept the
confidence. (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan
& Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150; see CACI 4100, et
seq.)
            “‘[B]efore a person
can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake
to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a
relationship which
imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.’” (City of Hope Nat'l
Med. Ctr. v. Genentech (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.)  Facts giving rise to a confidential,
fiduciary or trustee relationship must be pled, and a “bare allegation that
defendants assumed a fiduciary relationship” is a conclusion. (Zumbrun v.
Univ. of So. Cal. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1, 13.)
            Here, the FAC alleges that “[b]y virtue of handling
Plaintiffs’ real estate transaction and agreeing and being paid by Plaintiffs
to do so, Defendants, and each of them, assumed and owed a fiduciary duty to
Plaintiffs at all times relevant herein.” 
(FAC ¶ 24.)  However, being merely
involved in a real estate transaction does not make one a fiduciary.  (See e.g., Summit Financial Holdings, Ltd.
v. Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 705, 711-714.)  
            Undoubtedly, the escrow holder is a fiduciary to
Plaintiffs.  (Id. at p.711, [“An escrow holder is
an agent and fiduciary of the parties to the escrow.”].)  However, there is no allegation that
Defendant Provident was the escrow holder. 
The FAC merely alleges that “[i]n or about March 2021, Defendants made
an egregious error in the legal description attached to the Grant Deed for the
conveyance of the 5815 Topeka Drive residence and mistakenly conveyed both of
Plaintiffs’ homes in the sale, instead of one, and failed to discover or remedy
the mistake in a timely manner.”  (FAC ¶
11.)  As shown in the attached exhibits,
Defendant Provident recorded the erroneous grant deed, (FAC, Exh. 1), and it
appears from the amended and supplemental escrow instructions that Defendant
Commerce was the escrow holder, (FAC Exh. 2).[1]  However, Defendant Provident is not a party
to the attached escrow agreement. 
            As Defendant Provident is not a party to the escrow
agreement, and Plaintiffs fail to allege facts that Defendant Provident was
acting as a fiduciary, Defendant Provident’s demurrer to the second cause of
action is SUSTAINED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action:
Tort of Another
            Defendant Provident asserts that the sixth cause of
action for tort of another fails as a matter of law.  The Court agrees.
            “A person who through the tort of another has been
required to act in the protection of his interests by bringing or defending an
action against a third person is entitled to recover compensation for the
reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney's fees, and other expenditures
thereby suffered or incurred.”  (Prentice
v. North Am. Title Guaranty Corp., Alameda Division (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618,
620.)  “In the usual case, the attorney's
fees will have been incurred in connection with a prior action; but there is no
reason why recovery of such fees should be denied simply because the two causes
(the one against the third person and the one against the party whose breach of
duty made it necessary for the plaintiff to sue the third person) are tried in
the same court at the same time.”  (Id. at p.621.) 
The claim for tort of another must be pleaded and proven.  (Hsu v. Abbara (1995) 9 Cal.4th 863,
869, Fn. 4 [“Unless the parties stipulate otherwise, a claim for attorney fees
under the ‘tort of another’ doctrine may not be asserted by post-trial motion
but rather must be pleaded and proved to the trier of fact.”].)  
            However, “[t]he tort of another doctrine does not allow a
party to recover the fees and costs involved in litigating directly with a
negligent defendant.”  (Gorman v.
Tassajara Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 80.)  Similarly, “the tort of another doctrine does
not apply to the situation where a plaintiff has been damaged by the joint
negligence of codefendants.”  (Ibid.)  “The
rule of Prentice was not intended to apply to one of several joint
tortfeasors in order to justify additional attorney's fee damages. If that were
the rule there is no reason why it could not be applied in every multiple
tortfeasor case with the plaintiff simply choosing the one with the deepest
pocket as the ‘Prentice target.’ Such a result would be a total
emasculation of Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 in tort cases.”  (Vacco Industries, Inc. v. Van Den Berg
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 34, 57.)
            Here, the FAC alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of Defendants' tortious and wrongful conduct, Plaintiffs were required
to act in the protection of their interests by hiring an attorney to
investigate and help repair the then unidentified problem with their home title.”  (FAC ¶ 43.) 
Further, the FAC alleges that based on the tort of another doctrine, “Plaintiffs
had no choice but to bring the current action against Defendants in order to
protect their interests, and are entitled to the reimbursement of all
reasonable costs they incurred, including the attorney’s fees expended to
investigate and then right Defendants' wrong, as well as attorney’s fees and
costs incurred by Plaintiffs in connection with this action.”  (FAC ¶ 48.) 
This is plainly improper.  As
noted in the authority above, “[t]he tort of another doctrine does not allow a
party to recover the fees and costs involved in litigating directly with a
negligent defendant.”  (Gorman, supra,
178 Cal.App.4th at p.80.)  Further, Plaintiffs
cannot claim tort of another for conduct for which Defendants are allegedly
jointly liable.  (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiffs’ reliance on Third Eye Blind, Inc. v. Near
North Entertainment Ins. Services, LLC (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1311 is
misplaced.  In Third Eye Blind, members of a band were sued by a former band member for right of
publicity and trademark violations. (Id. at pp.1315–1316.)  Their liability insurance carrier denied
coverage based on an ambiguous exclusion in the policy, and the band members
defended the lawsuit on their own, expending over $3 million to settle the
case, including attorney's fees. (Id. at p.1316.)  Thereafter,
the band members sued the insurance carrier for refusing to defend and to
indemnify in the trademark lawsuit.  (Ibid.)  The
band members also sued their broker for negligence, seeking “ ‘all
covered defense costs’ [the band members] had incurred.”  (Ibid.)
            After
summary judgment was entered in favor of the band members finding that there
was a duty for the insurance carrier to defend in the underlying trademark
suit, the broker moved for judgment on the pleadings, which the trial court
granted finding that the claims against the broker were predicated on finding
that the insurance policy was insufficient to provide coverage in the
underlying trademark action.  (Id.
at p.1317.)  The Court of Appeal reversed
reasoning – in relevant part – that “[a]s a result of [the broker’s] allegedly
negligent failure to advise [the band members] about the [the ambiguous policy
exclusion] and the need for errors and omissions insurance, [the band members]
were required to sue [the insurance carrier] for coverage. [The band members]
allege that if they had been competently advised they would have obtained an
errors and omissions policy, which would have provided more definite coverage
for the [underlying trademark action]. Because [the band members] had no errors
and omissions policy to rely on, [the band members] were required to litigate
coverage with [the insurance carrier] as a direct result of [the broker’s]
alleged negligence; thus, the attorneys fees and costs incurred in the coverage
litigation may be recovered as damages if [the band members] prevail in their
claims against [the broker].”  (Id.
at p.1325.)  
            Notably
in Third Eye Blind, the tort of another doctrine was not interchangeable
and could only be asserted against the broker defendant due to a separate duty
and obligation to the band members.  In
contrast, in the instant action, there is no allegation that Defendant
Provident owed some duty to Plaintiffs that if avoided would have removed the
need for suit against Defendant Commerce. 
Rather, the underlying basis for liability against the Defendants is
identical.  (See e.g., FAC ¶ 11.)  The instant action does not involve a
separate and distinct basis for liability against each Defendant.  Moreover, there is no underlying litigation
or of a tort of another allegedly
caused by Defendants’ conduct – such as a separate suit with third parties regarding
the 5811 Topeka Drive property due to the title error.  
            Accordingly, Defendant Provident’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)  
            Here, as to the sixth cause of
action, Plaintiffs cannot state a claim based on the need for Plaintiffs to
initiate the instant suit against Defendants. 
However, the pleading is unclear, and Plaintiffs may have a basis for
such a claim that has not yet been alleged. 
Similarly, it is unclear what contract or basis for fiduciary duty
exists as to Defendant Provident.  Significantly
more facts could potentially be alleged that may support such claims.  Moreover, this is the first time that a demurrer
has been sustained against Plaintiffs’ FAC on these grounds.  Accordingly, the court finds it is proper to
allow Plaintiffs an opportunity to cure the defects discussed in this order.
(See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028,
1037.)  
 
Conclusion and ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Provident
Title Company’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the first, second, and sixth causes of action.
//
//
//
Plaintiffs are to file an amended
complaint on or before November 30, 2023.
Moving
Party is to give notice and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  October ___, 2023                                                    ___________________________
Elaine Lu
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court


