  Case Number:  22STCV10077    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
kristina
  holman,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KERLAN-JOBE
  SURGERY CENTER, LLC; KERLAN-JOBE, LLC; CEDARS-SINAI KERLAN JOBE INSTITUTe;
  CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER; CEDARS- SINAI MEDICAL CARE FOUNDATION;
  KERLAN-JOBE ORTHOPAEDIC CLINIC, A MEDICAL GROUP, INC.;
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV10077
 
  Hearing Date:  October 24, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to COMPEL DEFENDANT CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER
  TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’s REQUESTS FOR production, set
  three 



 
Procedural
Background
On March 23,
2022, Plaintiff Kristina Holman (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant wrongful
termination action against Defendants Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC,
Kerlan-Jobe, LLC, Cedars-Sinai Kerlan Jobe Institute, and Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center.  On April 28, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants
Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC, Kerlan-Jobe, LLC, Cedars-Sinai Kerlan Jobe
Institute,[1]
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Cedar Sinai Medical Care Foundation, and Kerlan-Jobe
Orthopaedic Clinic, a Medical Group Inc. 
The FAC asserts eleven causes of action for (1) Retaliation in violation
of Labor Code § 1102.5, (2) Retaliation in violation of Labor Code § 232.5, (3)
Retaliation in violation of Health & Safety Code § 1278.5, (4)
Discrimination on the Basis of Age in violation of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”), (5) Discrimination on the Basis of Disability in
violation of FEHA, (6) Failure to Prevent Discrimination in violation of FEHA,
(7) Retaliation in violation of FEHA, (8) Failure to Prevent Retaliation in
violation of FEHA, (9) Failure to Accommodate in violation of FEHA, (10)
Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process in violation of FEHA, and
(11) Wrongful Termination in violation of Public Policy.
On September 25,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s (“CSMC’s”) further
responses to Request for Production, Set Three (“RPDs”).  On October 11, 2023, Defendant CSMC filed an
opposition.  On October 17, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
            Defendant
CSMC has submitted evidentiary objections to the declaration submitted in
support of the instant motion.  However,
these objections are unnecessary because the Court, when reviewing the evidence
is presumed to ignore material it knows is incompetent, irrelevant, or
inadmissible.  (In re Marriage of Davenport (2011) 194 Cal. App.
4th 1507, 1526.)  Courts are presumed to know and apply the correct
statutory and case law and to be able to distinguish admissible from
inadmissible evidence, relevant from irrelevant facts, and to recognize those
facts which properly may be considered in the judicial decision-making
process.  (People v. Coddington (2000) 23 Cal.4th 529, 644.)  Moreover, there is no statutory basis for
evidentiary objections in connection with the instant motion.
 
Legal
Standard 
Requests
for Production of Documents
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310
provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
(a) On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall
comply with both of the following:
(1) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
 
Code Complaint Response
A code-compliant response to a
request for production consists of any of the following: (1) a statement that
the party will comply, (2) a representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply, or (3) an objection.  (CCP §§
2031.210.)  A
statement that the party will comply must state that the Request for Production
(“RPD”) “will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or
things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control
of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.”  (CCP § 2031.220.)  “If only part of an item or category of
item in a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
objectionable, the response shall contain a statement of compliance, or a
representation of inability to comply with respect to the remainder of that
item or category.”  (CCP §
2031.240(a).)  If an objection is made
the responding party must “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible
thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any category
of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.”  (CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).)
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(b)(2) a motion to compel further
responses to a request for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
(CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (CCP § 2016.040.)  “The level of effort at informal resolution
which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon
the circumstances. In a larger, more complex discovery context, a greater
effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly
focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation,
the nature of the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the
type and scope of discovery requested, the prospects for success and other
similar factors can be relevant.”  (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
On June 20,
2023, Defendant CSMC originally responded to the RPDs at issue. (Gevorkian
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 2.)  The response
consisted of only objections.  (Gevorkian
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 2.)  The parties
originally met and conferred with regard to these original responses, and on
August 31, 2023 Defendant CSMC served supplemental responses.  (Gevorkian Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)  Plaintiff’s Counsel informed Defendant that
the supplemental response were insufficient. 
(Gevorkian Decl. ¶¶ 14-15.)
 
Discussion 
Plaintiff
seeks a further response to RPDs Nos. 94, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106,
107, 108, 110, 113 and 114.
 
Supplemental Response to RPD No. 94
            “Any
and all Joint-Venture agreements relating to KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY CENTER, LLC.
[The term “KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY CENTER, LLC, shall include Defendant Kerlan-Jobe
Surgery Center, LLC, identified as a Cedars-Sinai Affiliated Joint Venture
(Controlling Interest) in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s Audited Consolidated
Financial Statements, Reports, Supplementary Information, and Schedule Required
by the Uniform Guidance concerning year ended June 30, 2021, attached hereto as
Exhibit A].”  (RPD No. 94.)
 
            “Defendant
objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous, including
as to “relating to.” Defendant also objects to this request as it is overbroad
and compound. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it
seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks sensitive and confidential
business, financial, or proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to
this request to the extent that it seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine and/or other
privileges, protections, or doctrines of similar effect. Defendant further
objects to this request on the ground that it seeks documents protected by
third- parties' privacy rights. Defendant also objects on the grounds that
Defendant did not employ Plaintiff. Defendant further objects to this request
on the grounds that it is overbroad, not limited in scope, and unduly
burdensome and designed simply to annoy and harass Defendant and cause it undue
expense. 
            Subject
to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows:

            After
a reasonable and diligent inquiry, Defendant does not have any documents in its
possession, custody or control responsive to this request because they have
never existed.”  (Supp. Response to RPD
No. 94.)
 
            The
Supplemental Response is Code Compliant
            A
code-compliant response to a request for production consists of any of the
following: (1) a statement that the party will comply, (2) a representation
that the party lacks the ability to comply, or (3) an objection.  (CCP §§ 2031.210.)  A statement of an inability to comply
requires Plaintiff to “affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry
has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.”  (CCP § 2031.230.)  Further, the response must “also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.”  (CCP §
2031.230.)  
Here,
CSMC’s substantive response indicates that there are no responsive documents
because they do not exist and have never existed.  This is a code compliant response as it
clearly indicates Defendant’s inability to comply and the basis for such
inability to comply.  Plaintiff’s claim
that documents should exist because Defendant CSMC identified Kerlan-Jobe
Surgery Center LLC as a “Cedars-Sinai Affiliated Joint Ventures (Controlling
Interest)” for purposes of expenditures of federal awards in an audit by CSMC, (Gevorkian
Decl., Exh. 1(A) at p.68), does not establish that there is necessarily a
written joint-venture agreement as requested. 
Thus, a response denoting that there is no written “joint-venture
agreements” is a plausible response.   
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967 is
misplaced.  Doppes did not address
the sufficiency of RPD responses.  “
‘Cases are not authority for propositions not considered.’ ” (Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority v. Yum Yum Donut Shops, Inc.
(2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 662, 673.) 
Moreover, Plaintiff has miscited a quote of the discovery referees’
findings -- not the Court of Appeal’s findings or reasoning.
Accordingly,
no further response is necessary as to RPD No. 94.
 
Supplemental Response to RPD Nos. 98-104,
106-107, 110, 113, 114
            In
near identical response to RPDs Nos. 98-104, 106-107, 110, 113, and 114,
Defendant CSMC responded in the supplemental response as follows:
            “Defendant
objects to this request on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous, including
as to ‘relating to.’ Defendant also objects to this request as it is overbroad
and compound. Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it
seeks documents that are neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks sensitive and confidential
business, financial, or proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to
this request to the extent that it seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine and/or other
privileges, protections, or doctrines of similar effect. Defendant further
objects to this request on the ground that it seeks documents protected by
third- parties' privacy rights. Defendant also objects on the grounds that
Defendant did not employ Plaintiff. Defendant further objects to this request
on the grounds that it is overbroad, not limited in scope, and unduly
burdensome and designed simply to annoy and harass Defendant and cause it undue
expense. 
            Subject
to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows:
Defendant will comply with this request and will produce documents in its
possession, custody and control responsive to this request, bates stamped CSMC
0009-00096.”  (Supp. Response to RPD No.
99; see also Supp. Response to RPDs Nos. 98, 99-104, 106-107, 110, 113, 114.)
 
            The
Supplemental Responses are Not Code Complaint
            These substantive responses are not code compliant because CSMC does
not specify that “all” responsive documents in its possession, custody, and
control are being produced.  Defendant
CSMC has not waived any objections.  Thus,
it is unclear whether documents are being withheld based on such
objections.  Moreover, Defendant CSMC has
redacted the documents it has produced apparently based on objections.  Therefore, Defendant CSMC was required to
identify the documents being withheld and the basis for the withholding.  (See CCP § 2031.240(b)(1-2), [“b) If
the responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both of the
following: (1) Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing,
land, or electronically stored information falling within any category of item
in the demand to which an objection is being made. (2) Set forth clearly the
extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If
an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work
product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be
expressly asserted.”] [Italics added.].) 
 
            To avoid further unnecessary motion
practice, the Court notes that the objections based on vagueness, ovebreadth,
relevance, or burden do not support a withholding of or redaction of the
documents.  “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matters, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  (CCP § 2017.010.)  “[A]n implicit
waiver of a party's constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly
relevant to the plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 842.)  However, discovery
should not be denied if the information sought has any relevance to the
subject matter. Thus, while relevancy is a possible ground for an objection, it
is difficult to adequately justify it. 
(See generally Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.)  “These rules
are applied liberally in favor of discovery, and (contrary to popular belief),
fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546 [internal citation omitted].)  
            As
to burden, “burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work
required” and “to support an objection of oppression there must be some showing
either of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate
effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  (West
Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
Moreover, even if [discovery requests] are found to be “burdensome and
oppressive,” the Court should not simply sustain the objection and thereby
excuse any answer. Rather, the Court should limit the question to a reasonable
scope. (Borse v. Superior Court (Southern Pac. Co.) (1970) 7
Cal.App.3d 286, 289.)
            Thus, Defendant CSMC must provide a
privilege log identifying every document withheld based on what specific
privilege.  Similarly, as CSMC has
unilaterally redacted documents, CSMC must provide a privilege log identifying
each specific basis for the redaction and what specific privilege applies.  
 
            Supplemental Response to RPD No.
108
            “Any and all DOCUMENTS and
COMMUNICATIONS evidencing that YOU have the power to remove, replace, appoint,
elect, recommend, approve or veto the appointment or election of any director,
executive, employee, administrator, manager, management services organization,
officer, trustee, and/or agent relating to CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CARE
FOUNDATION.” 
            “Defendant objects to this request
on the ground that it is vague and ambiguous, including as to “relating to.”
Defendant also objects to this request as it is overbroad and compound.
Defendant further objects to this request to the extent that it seeks documents
that are neither relevant to the claims at issue nor reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendant further objects to this
request to the extent that it seeks sensitive and confidential business,
financial, or proprietary documents. Defendant further objects to this request
to the extent that it seeks information protected by the attorney-client
privilege, the attorney work product doctrine and/or other privileges,
protections, or doctrines of similar effect. Defendant further objects to this
request on the ground that it seeks documents protected by third- parties'
privacy rights. Defendant also objects on the grounds that Defendant did not
employ Plaintiff. Defendant further objects to this request on the grounds that
it is overbroad, not limited in scope, and unduly burdensome and designed
simply to annoy and harass Defendant and cause it undue expense. 
            Subject to and without waiving
the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: 
            After a reasonable and diligent
inquiry, Defendant is unable to comply with this request because Plaintiff has
refused to clarify and/or narrow the scope of this request so as phrased,
Defendant is unable to locate or identify documents responsive to this request
without having to guess and/or expend substantial time and resources to do so.
Defendant is willing to further meet and confer with Plaintiff to understand
and narrow the scope of this request to determine if there are documents that
are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Supp. Response to RPD No. 108.)
            
            A Further Response is Required
            Here, in the substantive response,
Defendant CSMC contends that the request is overbroad and that the request is
too burdensome.  However, these
objections are not sufficiently supported to warrant a non-response to the
request.  As noted above, “burden must be sustained by evidence showing
the quantum of work required[.]”  (West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles,
supra, 56 Cal.2d at p.417.) 
Defendant CSMC fails to indicate what quantum of work would be required
to answer the request as phrased.
            Similarly,
it is unclear why the request should be deemed overbroad as phrased.  The phrasing is identical to prior requests
that Defendant CSMC was able to substantively respond to.  (See e.g., RPD Nos. 106-107.)  As noted above, discovery “rules are applied
liberally in favor of discovery, and (contrary to popular belief), fishing
expeditions are permissible in some cases.” 
(Gonzalez, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at p.1546 [internal citation
omitted].)  
            As
such a further code compliant response is required.
 
Sanctions
Plaintiff request sanctions of $5,961.65 in bringing the instant
motion.  Plaintiff’s counsel claims an
hourly billing rate of $590 and claims to have spent 7 hours preparing the
instant motion and 4 hours review the opposition and preparing the reply.  (Gevorkian Decl. ¶ 16.)
For a motion to compel further responses,
“[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to [request for production], unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2031.300(c), [italics added].)  Further, it is an abuse of discovery to make
an evasive response or make unsubstantiated objections to discovery.  (CCP § 2023.010(e)-(f).)
Here, the vagueness of Defendant CSMC’s
responses and the use of redactions without any privilege log necessitated the
instant motion, thus, some sanctions are warranted.  However, the requested amount is not
reasonable.  Plaintiff’s Counsel claims
to have specialized in employment law matters, and thus, spending the claimed
11 hours at $590 per hour on a simple motion to compel further responses is not
reasonable.
Accordingly, based on the totality of the
circumstances the Court finds that $2,061.65 reasonably represents the fees and
costs incurred.  Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Kristina Holman, by and
through counsel of record, in the amount of $2,061.65, within 30 days of notice
of this order.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Kristina
Holman’s motion to compel Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s further
response to Request for Production, Set Three is GRANTED IN PART as to requests
98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 110, 113 and 114 and otherwise
DENIED.
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center is ordered to serve verified,
code compliant further responses to Request for Production, Set Three Nos. 98,
99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 110, 113 and 114 within 30
days.  Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center is to simultaneously provide
a privilege log specifically identifying any documents withheld and redactions
based on attorney client privilege/work product, and third-party privilege and
enough information to clearly denote that the respective withheld document is
subject to attorney client/work product privilege.  (CCP § 2031.240(b).)
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED AS MODIFIED.
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center is ordered
to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Kristina Holman, by and through counsel of
record, in the amount of $2,061.65, within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
Moving Party is to
give notice and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: October ___, 2023                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


