 Case Number:  22STCV13261    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
total
  management services america, inc.; global data innovators, inc.; takako
  shimakage; and maya ono,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
e-shop
  labo llc; miwa tamura; keisuke shimada; et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV13261
 
  Hearing Date:  October 24, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses from defendants 



 
Procedural
Background
On April 20,
2022, Plaintiffs Total Management Services America, Inc., Global Data
Innovators, Inc., Takako Shimakage, and Mayo Ono (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed
the instant declaratory relief action against Defendants E-Shop Labo LLC (“E-Shop”),
Miwa Tamura (“Tamura”), and Keisuke Shimada (“Shimada”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).
On April 4,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants.  The FAC asserts six causes
of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Intentional
Misrepresentation, (4) Promissory Estoppel, (5) Quantum Meruit, and (6)
Declaratory Relief.
On October 2,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant “motion” seeking to compel further responses
to Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”) from Defendant E-Shop, Special
Interrogatories (“SROGs”) from Defendant E-Shop, Request for Production of
Documents (“RPDs”) from Defendant E-Shop, FROGs from Defendant Tamura, SROGs
from Defendant Tamura, RPDs from Defendant Tamura, FROGs from Defendant
Shimada, SROGs from Defendant Shimada, and RPDs from Defendant Shimada.  On October 11, 2023, Defendants filed an
opposition.  On October 17, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a reply and a “Notice of Errata re Separate Statement”. 
 
Improperly
Combined Motions
            As a preliminary matter, the notice
of the instant “motion” reflects that Plaintiff is seeking resolution of at
least nine separate discovery issues involving three separate defendants.  This is completely improper.  There is no legal authority or rule of Court
permitting Plaintiffs to improperly combine nine separate motions to be heard
together absent a Court order permitting such. 
The California Rules of Court only permit the combining of the papers in
support of the same motion.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1112(c).)  Rather, each
motion requires a separate notice and memorandum in support.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1112(a).)  Nor is there a basis for these motions to be
combined as the discovery disputes involve various different parties and types
of discovery disputes.  Moreover,
Plaintiffs have failed to make a separate online Court Reservation System (CRS)
reservation pay the required filing fees for each motion.  
            For purposes of the instant “motion,”
the Court will consider the merits. 
However, any improper filings in the future will be stricken and taken
off calendar, such as the untimely errata to the separate statement filed with
the reply.  
 
Improper Separate
Statement with the Reply
            The moving party generally may not
rely on additional evidence filed with its reply papers.  (San Diego Watercrafts,
Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316.) 
Evidence filed for the first time in a reply may violate the opposing party’s
due process rights if considered by the Court.  (Ibid.)  Thus,
evidence and exhibits presented in support of a reply are not generally
allowed. (See Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243,
249.)  Accordingly, the separate
statement filed with the reply is STRICKEN AS AN IMPROPER FILING.
 
Legal Standard 
Special
Interrogatories
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides that “[o]n receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete; [or] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under
Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate; [or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.”  (CCP §
2030.300(a).)
Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service of the
verified response, or upon a later date agreed to in writing.  Otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.  (CCP
§ 2031.310(c).)  The motion must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. 
(CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
The burden is on the responding part to justify any objection or failure
fully to answer the interrogatories.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 245, 255.)
 
Requests for
Production of Documents
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides, in pertinent part, as
follows:
(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following:
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.
 
Code Complaint Response
A code-compliant response to a request for production consists of any of
the following: (1) a statement that the party will comply, (2) a representation
that the party lacks the ability to comply, or (3) an objection.  (CCP §§ 2031.210.)  A statement that the
party will comply must state that the Request for Production (“RPD”) “will be
allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.”  (CCP § 2031.220.)  “If only part of an item or category of
item in a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
objectionable, the response shall contain a statement of compliance, or a
representation of inability to comply with respect to the remainder of that
item or category.”  (CCP §
2031.240(a).)  If an objection is made
the responding party must “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible
thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any category
of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.”  (CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).)
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(b)(1) a motion to compel further
responses to interrogatories “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(b)(1).) 
Similarly, under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(b)(2) a motion
to compel further responses to a request for production “shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).) “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (CCP § 2016.040.) “The level of
effort at informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex
discovery context, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In
a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of discovery requested, the prospects
for success and other similar factors can be relevant.”  (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Here, on
February 17, 2023, Plaintiffs served the FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs on each of the
Defendants.  (Flores Decl. ¶ 2.)  On March 21, 2023, Defendants each served verified
responses to the FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs at issue.  (Flores Decl. ¶ 3.)  
On March
30, 2023, Plaintiffs’ Counsel sent a meet and confer letter to then Defense
Counsel and subsequently telephonically conferred with Defense Counsel
regarding the discovery responses at issue. 
(Flores Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.)   Through emails between Counsel, the parties
agreed to extend the deadline to compel. 
(Flores Decl. ¶¶ 5-20, Exhs. 2-12.) 
On September 22, 2023, Defendants filed supplemental responses to most
of the discovery requests at issue except for the FROGs as to E-Shop.  (Flores Decl. ¶ 21.)  
On
September 27, 2023, Plaintiffs’ Counsel emailed Defense Counsel requesting to
meet and confer telephonically.  (Flores
Decl. ¶ 22, Exh. 13.)  However, the
parties were only able to briefly meet and confer telephonically regarding the
requests and briefly email regarding the discussion.  (Flores Decl. ¶¶ 23-27, Exhs. 14-17.)  
On October
2, 2023, Defendants served verifications to the supplemental responses.  (Keech Decl. ¶ 17, Exhs. B-C.)  On October 3, 2023, Defendant E-Shop served
its supplemental responses to the FROGs at issue.  (Keech Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. D.)  On October 4, 2023, Defendant E-Shop served
verifications for the at issue FROGs at issue. 
(Keech Decl. ¶ 19, Exh. E.)
 
The Objections Have Not Been Waived
            Plaintiffs
contend that all of the objections to the discovery responses have been waived
because (1) Defense Counsel “agreed” to waive objections, and (2) the
supplemental responses were “untimely.”
            Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.260 subdivision (a), a party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days of service. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.260 subdivision (a), a party
must respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days of
service.  However, these time limits are
extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, fax, or electronically.  (See CCP §§ 1010.6(a)(4), 1013.)  Failure to timely respond waives all
objections including privilege or on the protection of work product.  (See CCP § 2031.300(a); see CCP
§ 2030.290(a).)
            Here, Plaintiffs concede that Defendants
timely provided verified responses to the discovery requests at issue.  (Flores Decl. ¶ 3.)  Thus, the objections raised in those requests
are not waived by statute.  
The alleged “agreement” to waive
objections consists of Plaintiffs’ Counsel agreeing to extend the time to
provide supplemental responses before a motion to compel further responses
would be brought stating that “[t]he extra week is fine — you can even have two
 weeks, with the corresponding motion to compel deadline being extended —
so long as there are no objections.” 
(Flores Decl., Exh. 9.)  Defense
Counsel never responded to this request. 
(Flores Decl., Exh. 9.)  This is
not an agreement to waive objections. 
This is merely a request by Plaintiffs’ Counsel that Defendant not serve
any objections to the discovery requests at issue.
            Similarly, a supplemental response
cannot be untimely under the relevant statutes. 
The waiver of objection occurs with the initial response to the request --
not on the arbitrary deadline agreed to by the parties to provide supplemental
responses before a motion to compel further responses is filed.
            Accordingly, none of the objections
raised by Defendants have been waived.
            
Compelling
Further Responses as to Defendant Tamura
Lack of Separate Statement
            “[A]ny motion involving the content
of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied
by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate statement include
a motion: [¶] (1) To compel further responses to requests for admission; … [¶]
(3) To compel further responses to a demand for inspection of documents or
tangible things; …”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345(a).)  “A separate
statement is not required under the following circumstances: [¶] (1) When no
response has been provided to the request for discovery; or [¶] (2) When a
court has allowed the moving party to submit--in place of a separate
statement--a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(b), [bold and italics added].) 
The statutes permitting a motion to compel further responses provide
that a separate statement is required unless the Court orders a concise
outline.  (CCP §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b).)  Failure to comply with this requirement is grounds
for denial of the sought discovery motion. 
(Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.)
            Here, as noted by Defendants in
opposition, Plaintiffs failed to file a separate statement as to the FROGs,
SROGs, and RPDs at issue with regard to Defendant Tamura.  Moreover, the Court did not authorize nor
permit a concise outline nor was one filed. 
Accordingly, as there was no separate statement, as to Defendant Tamura,
the instant motion is DENIED. 
 
Compelling
Further Responses as to Defendant E-Shop
Motion
to Compel Further FROGs as to E-Shop is MOOT
            As noted above, on October 4, 2023, Defendant E-Shop
provided a further verified response to the FROGs at issue.  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
2030.300 “[o]n receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand” [.]  (Id., [italics added].)  Here, Defendant E-Shop has served a further
response since the filing of the instant motion, and thus, there is nothing
further to compel from the original response. 
Accordingly, the instant motion is MOOT as to FROGs to Defendant E-Shop.[1]
 
Special
Interrogatories as to E-Shop
            Here, the responses to the SROGs
contain various objections including that they are overbroad, vague and
ambiguous, burdensome, and that they are protected by attorney client/work
product privilege.
 
Objections
based on Relevance, Vagueness, Burden
            As to the overbroad objection “any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matters, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (CCP §
2017.010.)  “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”  (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)  However, discovery should not be
denied if the information sought has any relevance to the subject
matter. Thus, while relevancy is a possible ground for an objection, it is
difficult to adequately justify it.  (See generally Coy v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.)  “These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery, and (contrary to popular
belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases.”  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1539, 1546 [internal citation omitted].)  
            Here,
the SROGs at issue are relevant to
the action.  Moreover, as to ambiguity, the Court of Appeal in Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, noted that “where the question is somewhat ambiguous, but the nature of
the information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to provide an
appropriate response.”  (Id. at p.783.)  Here, the supplemental responses
properly respond to the request despite any claimed ambiguity.
            As
to burden, “burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work
required” and “to support an objection of oppression there must be some showing
either of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate
effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  (West
Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
Moreover, even if [discovery requests] are found to be “burdensome and
oppressive,” the Court should not simply sustain the objection and thereby
excuse any answer. Rather, the Court should limit the question to a reasonable
scope. (Borse v. Superior Court (Southern Pac. Co.) (1970) 7
Cal.App.3d 286, 289.) 
            Here,
Defendant Eshop has failed to substantiate any burden such as to warrant a
refusal to respond to the requests. Moreover, Defendant E-Shop has provided
proper responses to the request at issue despite the claimed burden.
 
Attorney Client
Privilege/Work Product Privilege Objections
“In general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that
party has the burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the
privilege.”  (Venture Law Group v.
Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.)  “The party asserting the privilege need only
present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.”  (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior
Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) 
“After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning the
preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to
show either the claimed privilege does not apply, an exception exists, or there
has been an express or implied waiver.” 
(Venture Law Group, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.)  
Here, given the broad requests, attorney-client privilege/work product
privilege could be applicable.  However, despite
raising attorney-client privilege, Defendant E-Shop appears to fully respond to
the request. 
 
Substantive Responses
As to SROGs Nos. 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15, Defendant E-Shop incorporates a
reference to documents.   As explained in
Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, “[a]nswers must be complete
and responsive. Thus, it is not proper to answer by stating, ‘See my
deposition,’ ‘See my pleading,’ or ‘See the financial statement.’ Indeed,
if a question does require the responding party to make reference to a pleading
or document, the pleading or document should be identified and summarized
so the answer is fully responsive to the question.”  (Id. at pp.783–784, [italics
added].)  The responding party must also
identify the documents with sufficient particularity so they can be easily
located.  (See Fuss v. Superior Court
for Los Angeles County (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 807, 815-817.)
Here, while the substantive responses somewhat describe the documents
at issue, Defendant E-Shop merely notes that they have been produced in
discovery and are in Plaintiffs’ possession. 
This is insufficient as Defendant E-Shop should identify the responsive
documents by bates number.  Accordingly,
a further response as to SROGs Nos. 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 is required.  As to the remaining requests, the substantive
responses appear fully responsive and complete. 
Accordingly, as there is nothing further to compel, nor does there
appear to be any good cause, Plaintiffs’ motion is denied as to SROGS 1-2, 4-5,
7-8, 10-11, and 13-14.
 
Request
for Production as to E-Shop
            Lack
of Separate Statement as to RPD No. 6
            “[A]ny motion involving the content
of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied
by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate statement include
a motion: [¶] (1) To compel further responses to requests for admission; … [¶]
(3) To compel further responses to a demand for inspection of documents or
tangible things; …”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345(a).)  “A separate
statement is not required under the following circumstances: [¶] (1) When no
response has been provided to the request for discovery; or [¶] (2) When a
court has allowed the moving party to submit--in place of a separate
statement--a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(b), [bold and italics added].) 
The statutes permitting a motion to compel further responses provide
that a separate statement is required unless the Court orders a concise
outline.  (CCP §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b).)  Failure to comply with this requirement is grounds
for denial of the sought discovery motion. 
(Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.)
            Plaintiffs seek to compel further responses as to all of
the RPDs; however, Plaintiffs failed to provide a separate statement as to RPD
No. 6 for E-Shop and Shimada. 
Accordingly, the instant motion is DENIED as to RPD No. 6.
 
            Objections
            Here,
the supplemental responses to the RPDs contain various objections including
that they are overbroad, vague and ambiguous, burdensome, and that they are protected
by attorney client/work product privilege.  

            As noted above, discovery should not be denied if the
information sought has any relevance to the subject matter. Thus,
while relevancy is a possible ground for an objection, it is difficult to
adequately justify it.  (See generally Coy v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.)  “These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery, and (contrary to popular
belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases.”  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1539, 1546 [internal citation omitted].)  Further, objections as to “burden
must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required[.]”  (West
Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  
            Here,
the requests are relevant, not too ambiguous to avoid a substantive response,
and there is no evidence supporting the claimed burden.  Accordingly, these objections are overruled.
            As
to the claims of privilege such as attorney-client privilege, “[t]he party asserting the privilege need
only present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.”  (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior
Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) 
Given the breadth of the requests, the request could invoke
documents that could involve attorney-client/work product privilege, these
objections do appear supported.
 
            The
Substantive Responses are Improper
            However, Defendant E-Shop’s substantive responses are not code
compliant.  First, E-Shop’s substantive
response is unclear stating that “[s]ubject to and without in any way waiving
the foregoing specific and general objections, and to the extent it understands
this Request, E-Shop responds as follows: E-Shop has produced all relevant,
non-privileged responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control
located after a reasonably diligent search, Bates labeled E-Shop 000001-000151.”  (See e.g., E-Shop Supp. Response to RPD No.
4.)  The responses do not specify that
all responsive documents in its possession, custody, and control are being
produced.  Defendant E-Shop has not
waived any objections.  Thus, it is
unclear whether documents are being withheld based on such objections.  Therefore, Defendant E-Shop was required to
identify the documents being withheld and the basis for the withholding.  (See CCP § 2031.240(b)(1-2),
[“b) If the responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both
of the following: (1) Identify with particularity any document, tangible
thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any category
of item in the demand to which an objection is being made. (2) Set forth
clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If an
objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked
shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information
sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.”] [Italics added.].)   
            Accordingly, a further response
identifying whether all responsive documents are being compelled and a
privilege log identifying specific documents being withheld and the basis for
such withholding is required as to RPDs No. 1-5, 7-50.
 
Compelling
Further Responses as to Defendant Shimada
            As the requests
and responses to Shimada are identical as to the SROGs and RPDs to E-Shop, the
instant motion is GRANTED IN PART as specified as to Defendant E-Shop.
 
            FROGs 15.1, 50.1, 50.2
As to the FROGs, the supplemental
responses are mostly code compliant for the reasons set forth as to the
discussion regarding the SROGs.  However,
the supplemental responses to RPDs Nos. 15.1 and 50.1 incorporate a reference
to documents.  
As explained in Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
“[a]nswers must be complete and responsive. Thus, it is not proper to answer by
stating, ‘See my deposition,’ ‘See my pleading,’ or ‘See the financial
statement.’ Indeed, if a question does require the responding party to make
reference to a pleading or document, the pleading or document should be
identified and summarized so the answer is fully responsive to
the question.”  (Id. at
pp.783–784, [italics added].)  The
responding party must also identify the documents with sufficient particularity
so they can be easily located.  (See Fuss
v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 807, 815-817.)
            Here, while the substantive responses somewhat describe
the documents at issue, Defendant Shimada merely notes that the documents have
been produced in discovery and are in Plaintiffs’ possession.  This is insufficient as Defendant Shimada
should identify the responsive documents by bates number.  Accordingly, as to FROGs No. 15.1 and 50.1 a
further response identifying the responsive documents by bates is required.  Plaintiffs’ motion is otherwise DENIED.
 
Sanctions
            Plaintiffs
seek sanctions of $5,400.00 for bringing the instant motion against Defense
Counsel.  (Flores Decl. ¶ 31.)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to [request for
production], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.300(c); CCP § 2030.290(c).) 

Here, given the mixed result, the
imposition of sanctions would be unjust. 
Accordingly, the request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs Total
Management Services America, Inc., Global Data Innovators, Inc., Takako
Shimakage, and Mayo Ono’s motion to compel further responses is GRANTED IN
PART.
Defendant E-Shop Labo LLC is ordered to serve a further code compliant
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One Nos. 2, 6, 9, 12, and 15
specifying the referenced responsive documents by Bates Number within 30 days.
Defendant E-Shop Labo LLC is ordered to serve verified, code compliant
further responses, without objections– except as to attorney client privilege –
to Requests for Production, Set One, Nos. 1-5, 7-50 within 30 days. 
Defendant is to simultaneously provide a privilege log specifically identifying
any documents withheld based on attorney client privilege/work product and
enough information to clearly denote that the respective withheld document is
subject to attorney client/work product privilege.  (CCP § 2031.240(b).)
Defendant Keisuke Shimada is ordered to serve a further code compliant
response to Form Interrogatories, Set One Nos. 15.1 and 50.1 and Special
Interrogatories, Set One Nos. 2, 6, 9, 12, and 15 specifying the referenced responsive
documents by Bates Number within 30 days.
Defendant Keisuke Shimada is ordered to serve verified, code compliant
further responses, without objections – except as to attorney client privilege
– to Request for Production, Set One Nos. 1-5, 7-50 within 30 days. 
Defendant is to simultaneously provide a privilege log specifically identifying
any documents withheld based on attorney client privilege/work product and
enough information to clearly denote that the respective withheld document is
subject to attorney client/work product privilege.  (CCP § 2031.240(b).)
The motion is otherwise DENIED.
The request for sanctions is DENIED.
The Moving Parties
are to give notice and file proof of service of such. 
 
DATED: October ___, 2023                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


