  Case Number:  18STCV01201    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
AMAG,
  INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MARC ANTHONY CUBAS, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  18STCV01201
  Hearing Date:  April 24, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
     defendants marc cubas’ and 
     injected arts’ motion for 
     summary judgment  




 


 



BACKGROUND
In October 2018, AMAG, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
commenced this action against Marc Anthony Cubas, et al. (“Defendants”),
asserting causes of action for creditor’s suit, fraudulent conversion, and
declaratory relief. The lawsuit stems from an underlying judgment wherein Vlaze
was found liable to AMAG for unpaid loans. Marc Cubas was Vlaze’s CEO, and he
allegedly made several fraudulent transfers of real and personal property to
other Defendants to avoid debt collection. By this action, AMAG seeks to unwind
these transfers and to apply these assets to the unpaid balance of the money
judgment. The operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed
August 4, 2020, alleging fraudulent conversion and declaratory relief.
On October 28, 2021, the Court granted
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to all Defendants except Omar
Zambrano and the Zambrano Law Corporation. On February 2, 2022, default was
entered against Vlaze pursuant to a November 11, 2021 court order striking its
answer. Plaintiff appealed the grant of summary judgment. 
In a decision dated November 6, 2023, the
Court of Appeal affirmed in part and reversed in part. The Court of Appeal
affirmed the Court’s decision as to most of the defendants, finding that
Plaintiff had failed to present evidence demonstrating any transfer from the
judgment debtor (Vlaze) to those defendants. However, the Court of Appeal
reversed as to Marc Cubas and Injected Arts, finding a triable issue based on
the possibility that Cubas and Injected Arts “did not provide rental income due
to Vlaze under a 99-year lease of real property to Vlaze.” The Court of Appeal
found that “AMAG demonstrated a triable question as to whether Vlaze’s
long-term lease qualifies as an asset and whether Injected Arts and Cubas
diverted the value of that asset.” The case was remanded to this Court for
further proceedings. 
On January 16, 2024, Marc Cubas and
Injected Arts filed the instant motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff filed
its opposition on April 10, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on April 19,
2024.     
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendants’ Evidence
 

Declaration
     of Kevin Kulbacki

The
      following objections are sustained: Paragraphs 12-14.
The
      following objections are overruled: Paragraphs 15-16. 


 

Report of
     Kevin Kulbacki (Exhibit A)

The
      following objections are sustained: Paragraphs 1-3.
The
      following objections are overruled: Paragraphs 4-5.


 

Declaration
     of Sydney Cubas

All
      objections are sustained.


 

Declaration
     of Marc Cubas

All
      objections are sustained. 


 

Declaration
     of Nadia Nino 

All
      objections are sustained. 


 

Declaration
     of Omar Zambrano

All
      objections are sustained.


 

Requests for
     Judicial Notice

The
      objections to Exhibits G, H, and I are sustained. 


 

Compendium of
     Exhibits

The
      objections to Exhibits C and E are sustained. 


Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence
·      
Defendants’
objections are overruled. 
DISCUSSION
            Based on the appellate opinion, the
sole issue on remand is a potential fraudulent transfer based on the purported
99-year lease. Defendants move for summary judgment on the grounds that the
lease is invalid and therefore there was no “transfer” of an “asset” for
purposes of fraudulent transfer. 
Defendants offer four independent reasons
why the lease is invalid. First, the pertinent signatures were forged. Second,
Marc Cubas had no authority to enter into a lease because he did not own the
property and was not otherwise authorized. Third, Vlaze’s failure to pay the
security deposit voided the lease ab initio. And fourth, the property
listed on the lease as 2124, 2126, 2128 and 2130 Bellevue is a residential
quadruplex even though the location is zoned for commercial use, meaning the
lease was formed for an illegal purpose. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff
did not mention the purported lease in its FAC or discovery responses. 
                        1. Signatures
            The signatures on the lease are of
Marc Cubas and Susana Cubas, but both deny signing the lease or even being
aware of it. (UF 1-4.) Defendants’ expert concludes it is “highly probable”
that the signatures were cut and pasted from other documents. (UF 5-6.)
However, Defendants’ expert report also acknowledges that it is based on “examination
of poor-quality reproductions of the documents” and that “certain types of
evidence cannot be examined from non-original documents.” (Def.’s Ex. A, p. 3.)
The expert “request[ed] the submission of the original, written ink on paper or
higher-quality reproductions of Items 1 through 6 for further examination” and
“reserve[d] the right to issue a supplemental report based on the submission of
additional evidence that may address this limitation.” (Ibid.) There is
no indication that the originals were ever submitted to or examined by the
expert. A reasonable trier of fact may find that the expert report is
inconclusive and does not prove forgery occurred. Additionally, Plaintiff’s opposing
expert report concludes that the signatures were not cut and paste. (Wakshull
Decl.) This conflicting evidence raises a factual dispute for the trier of fact
to resolve. The defense expert’s supplemental declaration only adds to the
factual dispute. The credibility of Plaintiff’s expert is itself a matter for
the trier of fact.   
            Additionally, a former executive and
custodian of records for Vlaze, Anastasiia Arseneva, avers that she obtained
the lease from Vlaze’s business records. (Arseneva Decl. ¶ 5.) Ms. Arseneva
also avers that Vlaze paid the $10,000 monthly rent under the lease. (Id.,
¶ 6.) Lastly, Ms. Arseneva avers that Susana Cubas had a signature stamp. (Id.,
¶ 7.) “Authentication of a writing means (a) the introduction of evidence
sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the proponent of
the evidence claims it is or (b) the establishment of such facts by any other
means provided by law.” (Evid. Code, § 1400.) “A writing may be authenticated
by evidence that . . . [t]he writing has been acted upon as authentic by the
party against whom it is offered.” (Evid. Code, § 1414(b).) “The means of
authenticating a writing are not limited to those specified in the Evidence
Code. For example, a writing can be authenticated by circumstantial evidence
and by its contents.” (Hart v. Keenan Properties, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th
442, 450.) 
Ms. Arseneva’s declaration, viewed in the
light most favorable to Plaintiff, establishes the lease as a document from
Vlaze’s business records that was treated as authentic. The evidence also
suggests that the identical signatures may have been generated by a stamp
rather than forgery. This is sufficient to raise a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of the lease. Ms. Arseneva’s credibility is itself a matter for
the trier of fact. The Court does not weigh evidence on summary judgment. Even
without Ms. Arseneva’s declaration, the testimony of Plaintiff’s expert (which
Defendants do not object to) is sufficient to raise a factual dispute, as
discussed above.      
                        2. Marc Cubas’
Ownership
            While Marc Cubas did not own the
property located at 517 Alvarado and 2116 Bellevue at the time the purported
lease was executed (UF 7), he did acquire a joint tenancy interest in the
property shortly after (AF 1). Additionally, Cubas does not deny owning the
other property subject to the lease (2124, 2126, 2128 and 2130 Bellevue). (See
AF 2.) A trier of fact may reasonably infer from this evidence that Marc Cubas had
authority to lease the property for purposes of fraudulent transfer. 
                        3. Security
Deposit
            The lease required a security
deposit “concurrently with the Tenant’s execution of this lease.” (Def.’s Ex.
B, § 2.02.) It is undisputed that Vlaze did not pay this deposit. (UF 9.)
However, the lease also defines default as the “failure to pay any installment
of Rent or any other sum due on the date when such payment is due, with such
failure continuing for a period of three (3) days after written notice
of such delinquency.” (Def.’s Ex. B, § 6.01(b).) Additionally, the lease
provides that in the event of default, the Landlord (defined in the agreement
as Marc Cubas) “shall have the right to immediately terminate this lease
and all rights of Tenant hereunder by giving written notice to Tenant of
such election by Landlord.” (Id., ¶ 7.01.) There is no indication that
Marc Cubas provided written notice of delinquency or written notice of his
election to terminate the lease. A trier of fact may reasonably find that the
lease remained valid despite Vlaze’s failure to pay the security deposit.  
                        4. Zoning
            The lease does not identify the
specific use for the subject properties. Instead, the lease provides that the
property would be used “for any lawful purpose” and that Tenant’s use shall not
“in any way conflict with any law, ordinance, rule or regulation.” (Def.’s Ex.
B, §§ 3.01, 3.02.) The lease also requires Tenant to “comply with all of the
requirements of all municipal, state and federal authorities.” (Id., §
3.04.) Therefore, Defendants have not established as a matter of law that the
lease was formed for residential purposes in violation of commercial zoning.
Additionally, Defendants’ cited evidence appears to show that the location is
zoned for residential. (See Def.’s Ex. F.) Thus, a triable issue remains as to
whether the lease contemplated an unlawful purpose.  
                        5. FAC and
Discovery Responses
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff
cannot rely on the purported 99-year lease to formulate a triable issue because
the lease was not alleged in the FAC or mentioned in Plaintiff’s discovery
responses. However, the Court of Appeal has expressly held that Plaintiff could
demonstrate a triable issue with regards to the lease. Additionally, Plaintiff
is entitled to amend the complaint, even during trial, to conform to the
evidence. (See Garcia v. Roberts (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 900, 909.) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants Marc Cubas’ and Injected
Arts Inc.’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 