  Case Number:  BC657947    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTIONS OF ODS TO BIFURCATE (1) PUBLIC POLICY ISSUE, (2) LIABILITY AND DAMAGES
AND (3) 2017 & 2018 ACCOUNTING ISSUES AND MOTION OF LUCANISH TO FILE SECOND
AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT   
 
O’Neil
Digital Solutions, et al. v. James Lucanish, and related cross-complaint, 
Case No. BC
657947
Hearing
Date: August 19, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          Each of these four
motions concern the effect of the Court’s decisions in earlier phases of trial
on the balance of trial and are therefore addressed together as they interact
with one another. For the reasons discussed below, the remaining part of this
case must be tried to a jury in one piece without further lapse of time. The
Court can likely instead narrow issues at trial in response to motions in
limine or otherwise where appropriate to ensure trial is no longer than it
needs to be and or to decide issues that should be for the court rather than
for a jury.  
 
          This case was
assigned to the undersigned for long-cause trial in March 2023 when it had been
pending already for over five years. (The parties had stipulated to an
extension of the five-year statute through the start of trial.) Since then, the
Court has completed three lengthy phases of trial, and decided substantial
related motions and other briefings, but which has taken time. Thereafter, the
competing obligations of Lucanish’s counsel prevented scheduling the jury trial
until August 19, 2024. More recently, that trial date had to be taken
off-calendar due to Lucanish’s health and could not be set for that reason for
another six months. Trial is now scheduled to resume on April 1, 2025 and is
estimated by counsel to take twenty-three court days to try – through May 8,
2025. This courtroom has no available time before April 2025 due to scheduled
trials in other cases to try any further bifurcated proceeding in this case
even if it believed that was appropriate to do, as discussed below. 
 
          The Court has
reviewed each of the four motions, the oppositions to each, as well as the
reply briefs on all the motions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTIES’ CONTENTIONS AND DISCUSSION 
 
ODS motion to bifurcate public policy issue 
 
 
           Ordinarily, it
appears without dispute that a so-called Tameney claim, for termination
of employment in violation of public policy, would be for a judge to determine
whether the specific basis for the termination was one that rose to the level
of a public policy violation to give rise to a tort as opposed to breach of
contract. ODS contends this is a factual issue for the Court that should be
bifurcated. In turn, Lucanish acknowledges that whether a public policy is at
stake is one at least initially for the court on a motion (even if he disagrees
that there is any need to bifurcate where this decision does not turn on
disputed facts.)  
 
          In turn, there can
be no disagreement that the directions for use on CACI jury instruction 2430 (wrongful
discharge in violation of public policy) states: “The judge should determine
whether the purported reason for firing the plaintiff would amount to a
violation of public policy….The jury should then be instructed that the alleged
conduct would constitute a public-policy violation if proved. Note there are
two causation elements. First, there must be causation between the public
policy violation and the discharge (element 3)…Element 5 then expresses a
second causation requirement; that the plaintiff was harmed as a result of the
wrongful discharge.”  
 
          Here, the alleged
reason for the public policy violation was ODS terminating Lucanish for advising
ODS of his reasonable good faith but mistaken belief that it was not paying him
the amounts that it should have been by way of an alleged agreed upon bonus by
reason of ODS “cooking its books” so that there would be no bonus. This Court
has decided already in the earlier phase of trial that ODS did not cook its
books – at least not for the years 2015 and 2016. As previously discussed in
the Court’s June 25, 2024 ruling on the motion to reconsider the order denying
ODS’ motion for summary judgment, however, that ruling does not prohibit
Lucanish asserting the above-referenced more limited claim. 
 
         Merely making a claim
that an employer has taken wrongful action in violation of public policy may
itself be a public policy issue even if the underlying claim of wrongdoing was
mistaken. (See Green v. Ralee Engineering (1998) 19 Cal.4th
66, 87 (a plaintiff suing for wrongful termination of employment does not have
to have been right about his suspicions)) As contrasted to making a legal
determination about whether a type of claim is or is not a matter of public
policy, whether an employee has made a claim based on a reasonable and good
faith but mistaken belief is a subjective question of what belief the employee
held, not objective, even if the belief cannot be entirely unfounded – that is for
a jury. (See Barbosa v. IMPCO Technologies (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th
1116, 1122 (where the Court reversed an order granting a motion for non-suit on
the basis that the employee had not shown the employer’s actions amounted to termination
based on public policy violation given that this was issue for a jury) and Edgerly
v. Oakland (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1191, 1206 (“reasonableness”
is an issue for a jury unless there is no evidence from which a juror could
find the employee’s concerns were reasonable)) 
 
          This Court has
found already that the alleged wrongful termination here is an issue as to which
there is conflicting evidence precluding summary judgment or decision as a pure
matter of law, as Lucanish argues. Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1137, relied upon by Lucanish, is not
instructive here: It is without dispute that an employer exposes itself to
potential tort liability for terminating an employee for having questioned
whether he or she was receiving the compensation to which the employee was
entitled. Gould merely allowed such a claim to go trial, reversing an
order sustaining a demurrer. The issues here are factual: ODS disputes that
Lucanish had a reasonable good faith belief that ODS was not paying him what it
should have been. 
 
          Hence, the Court
may not permissibly bifurcate the public policy issue for it to decide,
consistent with Code of Civil Procedure sec. 1048(b) that any separation of
issues “preserve the right of trial by jury.” In addition, even leaving aside
the foregoing, ODS has not shown how bifurcation here would be “conducive to
expedition and economy,” again under sec. 1048(b), where the witnesses who
testify concerning whether Lucanish had a reasonable good faith but mistaken
belief about wrongdoing would then again have to testify in front of a jury related
to those same facts assuming the Court found there was a public policy issue at
stake.  
 
          That said, the
Court is not finding here that ODS may not at the close of Lucanish’s case at
trial move for non-suit, consistent with Barbosa, supra, if Lucanish did
not put on evidence based on which a jury could reasonably find there were facts
supporting the two elements of causation necessary, as referenced above. (See
Holmes v. General Dynamics (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1418, 1434, Sequoia
Ins. Co. v. Sup. Court (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1472, 1480) (whether
there is a reasonable suspicion of illegality, for purposes of wrongful
termination, turns on if what the employer is alerted to sufficiently described
prohibited conduct to enable the employer to know the policies expressed in the
applicable law) The Court recognizes that given its earlier findings that ODS
did not cook the books, it may not have been reasonable or in good faith for Lucanish
to have made the claim he contends he did or that ODS would have terminated
Lucanish for making any such claim if it had not cooked the books. In turn, if
there was not the bonus available Lucanish believed, it is not clear whether he
would have been damaged.  
 
         In turn, consistent
with CACI 2430, there remains a question for the Court in determining the
instructions to be given to the jury whether based on the facts presented “the
discharge is against public policy and affects a duty which inures to the
benefit of the public at large rather than to a particular employer or
employee.” Foley v. Interactive Data (1998) 47 Cal.3d 654, 669. (See
also Gannt  v. Sentry Ins.
(1992) 1 Cal.4th 1082, 1092 (“the policy in question must involve a matter
that affects society at large rather than a purely personal or proprietary
interest of the plaintiff or employer”), Hunter v. Up-Right (1993) 6
Cal.4th 1174, 1186 (claim of fraud is essentially a private dispute
seeking monetary remedies and is not action to vindicate broader public
interests)[1]
 
ODS motion to bifurcate liability and damages in jury trial 
 
          In summary, ODS
contends the scheduled trial – which will be a long one as referenced above -
could be shortened significantly if the Court separates liability from damages,
arguing that if it prevails for various reasons, this will save the Court and
jury hearing from numerous witnesses concerning damages. In summary, Lucanish contends
first the motion is untimely as trial has already started and under CCP sec. 598
and LASC Local Rule 3.57(c), the motion should have been brought before trial.
Lucanish responds on the merits that bifurcating consideration of damages until
after the jury determines whether there is liability would in fact save only
two days out of twenty-three estimated – namely, witnesses concerning
Lucanish’s resulting health and emotional distress. Lucanish argues that most
of the witnesses regarding damages will also testify about how ODS caused the
damages and hence will have to testify twice – thereby causing trial to take
longer, not less time. Further, there will be unnecessary issues about whether
a witness needs to testify in the first half or only in the second half.   
 
           Initially, the
Court does not find the motion untimely. The statute and rule do not contemplate
a bifurcated trial as here. The motion is timely where trial is not until next
April. 
 
           However, ODS has
not established that bifurcation of damages and liability would necessarily
save significant time. The motion is premised on the assumption ODS will
prevail. The Court cannot make that assumption where that will be for the jury
to decide. The Court does not believe it can permissibly impliedly infer one
way or another which side will likely prevail where it has not heard that
evidence. Even assuming for sake of argument ODS were to prevail, ODS did not
successfully rebut Lucanish’s point that many witnesses will overlap between
causation and damages where assessing liability may require assessing what the
lost income would be. Specifically, whether Lucanish performed under the
alleged Milestone Incentive Agreement (“MIA”) may require comparing past income
of ODS to its later income (which would be the same evidence as concerns
damages). Finally, the Court is concerned that it may not be fair to Lucanish
for a jury to decide liability without first hearing what the impact of that
would be (according to him), as well as with the point he raises that jurors
might choose to conclude – be it improperly – that there was no liability
knowing that this would allow them to end their jury service on this long
trial. Further, extra time may be required by the jury potentially having to
deliberate twice.  
 
          Finally, as
alluded to above, ODS has potentially other ways to achieve savings in time
other than by bifurcation, including motions in limine to exclude damages
experts if they are relying on flawed methodology (as ODS argues), or objecting
to multiple lay witnesses concerning Lucanish’s resulting health and mental
state if their testimony would be unduly cumulative. The estimated time for
certain of the damages witnesses seems at this point excessive.  
 
ODS motion to bifurcate 2017 and 2018 accounting issues for a
further bench trial 
 
          The Court
previously conducted a trial concerning accounting issues in 2015 and 2016. The
Court did not hear accounting issues for 2017 and 2018 because those years were
not alleged to have had accounting issues.[2] If there
were alleged improprieties in those years, the Court would have obviously
included those years in the scope of the prior trial in its order of June 8,
2023. 2017 and 2018 were at issue only because if there was liability
Lucanish’s damages might extend to losses in those years based on the MIA. As a
result, the reason for ODS seeking bifurcation of accounting issues in 2017 and
2018 assumes Lucanish will be able to now make such claim. Lucanish does not
assert that there were such accounting issues – be it that he still seeks
damages for losses during those years. As Lucanish states: “None of that [being
able to remain employed until he was ready to retire] depends on ODS’ operating
income in 2017-2020….None of this constitutes, or requires, an equitable
accounting….But that [book cooking] is not what Lucanish alleges for that time
period.” Lucanish seeking damages for 2017 onwards does not also mean he is
asserting that those are premised on any “cooking of the books” that would
require a separate trial – as there was for the earlier years when there was
that allegation as a basis for liability. 
 
          In short, this
motion assumes a problem that does not exist – be it that the Court understands
that if there were accounting issues for 2017 and 2018 that it would be
consistent with the earlier ruling that those issues be tried similarly.  Any remaining issue concerning 2017 and 2018
accounting irregularities in 2017 or 2018 at trial can likely be handled by a
motion in limine. 
          
 
Lucanish motion for leave to file a second amended cross-complaint

 
          In its June 25,
2024 ruling, the Court suggested the parties determine if the parties might stipulate
to filing supplemental pleadings if to do so would ensure the issues were
properly tailored for a jury to determine, in view of events since they were
filed, if to do so would not re-open discovery or cause delay. The Court did
not per se “invite” a motion. Here, it is apparent that the parties do not
stipulate to filing further pleadings and that to now allow a second amended
cross-complaint would likely jeopardize the trial date with likely further
motion practice and cause prejudicial delay at this point. ODS argues that Lucanish
is improperly changing the nature of his claims from those he made earlier – as
opposed to merely reflecting what has transpired since filing of the first
amended cross-complaint (as Lucanish asserts is all that he doing.) ODS argues
further it would be unduly prejudiced by Lucanish being able to do so at this
late date after close of substantial discovery, as well as conclusion of the
earlier phase of trial. 
 
          Whether or not
Lucanish is now changing his story, the Court concurs that Lucanish should not
be able to avoid - by filing a new pleading post-trial - the consequence of ODS
having already prevailed on those allegations in the cross-complaint alleging
cooking of the books in 2015 and 2016. ODS is likely entitled to assert at
trial - potentially by way of jury instructions (as Lucanish suggests) - that
this fact has been established already. The situation here is not the typical
one on a motion to amend where the pleading has not been decided already and
amendment is to be liberally granted. In addition, it is not the one either
where the parties are in the middle of trial and the plaintiff seeks to amend
the pleading to conform to proof prior to conclusion of trial. The situation
here is instead that a party may not permissibly bring a different claim after
he has already lost on the one he did bring. (See Green v. Rancho
Santa Margarita Mortgage Co. (1994) 28 cal.App.4th 686, 693-694
and Fisher v. Larson (1982) 138 Cal.App.3d 627, 649) ODS would be unduly
prejudiced were it now to have to defend a different case than it prevailed on
already at the first phase of trial. Though the Court does not find Lucanish
improperly delayed seeking to amend his cross-complaint or that the proposed
cross-complaint is a “sham” pleading, as ODS argues, the Court does find the
motion is untimely after the earlier phase of trial that decided at least
certain aspects of the current pleading. 
 
          As discussed above, the principal
remaining issue to be decided at trial on the cross-complaint appears to be
whether Lucanish had a reasonable good faith belief of wrongdoing by ODS.
Lucanish cannot now avoid what it contended before in making that claim  – where that is what ODS has believed
throughout the long pendency of this case what it expected to have disprove at
trial. Whether the finding that ODS did not cook the books precludes Lucanish having
a reasonable good faith belief remains to be decided by the jury.    
 
         Lucanish can choose
to put on what evidence he believes proves the causes of action in the cross-complaint.
It may be that he does not choose to assert matters that would be inconsistent
with what the Court has found against him already and therefore the reason for
this amended pleading becomes moot. On the other hand, certain allegations in
the existing cross-complaint may rebut the good faith of that belief given the
finding already. Therefore, to avoid likely prejudice to ODS, and where there
is no counter-veiling need for Lucanish to file an amended cross-complaint, it
would not be “proper,” within the meaning of CCP sec. 473, for the proposed cross-complaint
to become the operative pleading after the conclusion of the earlier phase of trial.

 
CONCLUSION 

          For these reasons,
the Court denies each of the four motions.  
  

