  Case Number:  23TRCV03110    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  B PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ex rel. WILLIAM
WYNDER, City Attorney for the City of Rancho Palos Verdes, and CITY OF
RANCHOS PALOS VERDES, a general law city, Plaintiff v. JOHN STEPHEN RICO,
an individual, and DOES 1-10, inclusive, Defendant;
COMMUNITY MORTGAGE FUNDING, LLC,; COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
DEPARTMENT OF CHILD SUPPORT SERVICES; STATE OF CALIFORNIA EMPLOYMENT
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT, and ROES 1-10, inclusive, Real Parties in Interest
Case No.  23TRCV03110
The Health and Safety Problem at 2105 Noble View
This action was commenced by Plaintiff City of Rancho Palos
Verdes to abate a public health and safety nuisance at the real property
located at 2105 Noble View Dr., Rancho Palos Verdes, California (“2015 Noble
View”). Defendant John Stephen Rico is the owner of that property. Community
Mortgage Funding, LLC is the servicer on a loan and Deed of Trust dated June
28, 2012 in the face amount of $252,600. Intervenor Federal Housing Finance
Agency (“FHFA”), as the conservator for Fannie Mae, pursuant to an act of
Congress, is the owner of the debt evidenced by the June 28, 2012 Deed of Trust
which is serviced by Community Mortgage Funding, LLC.
On January 26, 2024 Plaintiff filed a Petition for
Appointment of Receiver and Requiring Reimbursements Pursuant to Health &
Safety Code §§ 17980 et seq.
Plaintiff sought the appointment of California Receivership Group, Inc. and
Mark Adams as a Receiver in order to remediate the substantial problems with 2105
Noble View.  On April 17, 2024 this Court
granted the application for the appointment of the Receiver. Among other
things, this Court’s Order provided in paragraphs 3.G. and 3.H. that the
Receiver had the power to:
“G. To borrow funds as necessary to pay for the cost of the
rehabilitation work, relocation benefits, design and engineering work, permits,
property management and maintenance, taxes, insurance, legal fees, receiver’s
fees and interim fees, and other costs of the Receivership, and to secure that
debt with a recorded first priority lien on the Property for the amount
borrowed. As allowed by Health and Safety Code § 17980.7, the Receiver may
also record at the County Recorder’s Office a first lien (also known as
Receiver’s Certificate of Indebtedness) on the Property that shall have super
priority as to any preexisting private lien(s) and encumbrance(s), except
against federal, state, and county tax lien(s), for any monies owed to the
Receiver for the estimated costs of operating the receivership, including
receiver’s fees and costs advanced or expended by the Receiver for the purposes
authorized by this order or subsequent orders issued in this action.
H. To issue and record
Receiver’s Certificates of Indebtedness and/or a Deed of Trust against the
Property to evidence and secure the above debt, which shall become a first lien
on the Property with super-priority over all preexisting private liens and encumbrances,
except for federal, state, and county tax liens. The Receiver’s Certificate
shall be issued for such amounts and for such items as the Court may hereafter
expressly authorize, upon notice and after hearing as herein provided. The debt
evidenced by said Certificates shall be due and payable upon the completion of
the Receiver’s duties hereunder with respect to the rehabilitation of the
Property and, if applicable, the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy by the
City of Rancho Palos Verdes. If at the time this debt is not satisfied, the
Receiver or the holder of the Certificate may apply to this Court on notice and
hearing to sell the Property pursuant to the California Code of Civil Procedure
§ 568.5 free and clear of subordinate liens and encumbrances.”  (Bold
added.)
The Receiver was
granted the authority in paragraph 7 of the Order to issue a Certificate of
Indebtedness with super-priority in the amount of $30,000.
On May 23, 2024 the
Receiver filed his First Report of Receiver; etc. The Report detailed the dangers
and substantial deficiencies at 2105 Noble View, and requested that the Court
increase the amount that the Receiver was authorized to borrow with a
super-priority by $644,712, to a total of $674,712.
In the Report the Receiver
detailed the authority of this Court to grant the super-priority under
California state law. The Court agrees that as a matter of California law, it
has the authority to grant a super-priority in this case. That is, unless
federal law precludes such action. And it does.
The Objection of
Community Mortgage and Intervenor Federal Housing Finance Agency
On July 25, 2024
Defendant Community Mortgage Funding, LLC and Intervenor FHFA jointly filed
their Objection to the Receiver’s First Report. They objected to this Court
granting a super-priority on the basis that this Court lacked the power to do
so as a result of the federal Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (“HERA”).
Objectors contend that 12 USC §4617(f) and 12 USC § 4617(j)(3) preclude this
Court from granting this encumbrance against 2105 Noble View. They argue that
as the supreme law of the land, the two statutes do not allow this Court to
exercise the state law power to allow the Receiver to create a super-priority
lien as FHFA is protected by these statutes.
Intervenor FHFA is the
conservator for Fannie Mae. It has succeeded to the rights and interest of
Fanny Mae as a result. Fannie Mae held the debt created by the June 28, 2012
Deed of Trust. The debt was originally in the principal amount of $252,600. According
to the schedule attached to the declaration of Robert Morgan, the debt had been
reduced to $194,496.67 as of April 2022. The schedule does not show any
reduction in the balance owed after that date. Nor does it reflect any increase
resulting from accrued interest or other amounts that would undoubtedly have increased
the outstanding balance on the debt. At present, the existing debt held by FHFA
is in the range of approximately $220,000.
The Court agrees
with FHFA that both 12 USC §4617(f) and 12 USC § 4617(j)(3) preclude this Court
from granting the Receiver the ability to create a super-priority lien as the
statutes are the supreme law of the land and limit this Court’s authority to
grant such a lien.
Of particular value
is Perry Capital LLC v. Mnuchin, 864 F.3d 591, 604-606 (D.C. Cir. 2017). In
that decision the court noted the “Recovery Act's far-reaching limitation on
judicial review.” It observed that “Congress was explicit in Section 4617(f) that
“no court” can take “any action” that would “restrain or affect” FHFA's
exercise of its “powers or functions * * * as a conservator or a receiver.” 12 U.S.C.
§ 4617(f).”  At 604.  Drawing on the interpretation of the “nearly
identical statutory limitation on judicial review in [section 1821(j) of] the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”)”
the court held that:
“The rationale of those decisions applies with
equal force to Section 4617(f)’s indistinguishable operative language. The
plain statutory text draws a sharp line in the sand against litigative
interference—through judicial injunctions, declaratory judgments, or other
equitable relief—with FHFA's statutorily permitted actions as conservator or
receiver. And, as with FIRREA, Congress adopted Section 4617(f) to protect FHFA
as it addressed a critical aspect of one of the greatest financial crises in
the Nation's modern history.”  At 606.
So too, section 4617(j)(3) precludes this Court from
granting a super-priority for debt created by the Receiver.
“No property of [an FHFA
conservatorship] shall be subject to levy, attachment, garnishment,
foreclosure, or sale without the consent of [FHFA], nor shall any involuntary
lien attach to the property of [FHFA].”
The Receiver-created lien would be an “involuntary lien.” To
the extent that it has a super-priority, it impacts the property interest of
FHFA.  (See Reverse Mortgage Solutions,
Inc. Moore, (No. 2014-CA-07660-R(RP), 2023 WL 3975088, at *4 (D.C. Super.
Ct. Jun. 7, 2023). It does not matter that there may be adequate equity to cover
both the super-priority debt sought and the debt held by FHFA.
The Receiver argues that that this Court should construe
section 4617(j)(3) as not precluding the creation of the lien, but only the
enforcement of a remedy such as foreclosure to collect the lien created by the
super-priority. Such an interpretation is far too narrow. First, the statute
precludes the creation of an involuntary lien. Thus, it does not limit itself
to actions to obtain the benefit of the lien, such as foreclosure or sale. Nor
would it make sense to construe the statute so narrowly. What would be the
value of a lien if there was no right to move against the property secured by
the lien? Indeed, it is difficult to believe that any lender, understanding
that enforcement against the property is precluded, would be willing to make a
loan and obtain a “lien” that could not be enforced by foreclosure or other
sale mechanism. (Is a “lien” that can not be enforced against the property securing
the “lien” even really a lien?)
Equity is Irrelevant to the Analysis
The Court recognizes that the FHFA debt is a small fraction
of the likely value of 2105 Noble View.  In
fact, were the Court to grant the Receiver’s request to allow up to $675,000 of
new, super-priority debt, the total debt on that property would very likely still
result in there being net equity such that all debt could be satisfied by any
foreclosure.  However, this Court is not empowered
to conduct such an analysis and then decide that FHFA should have to suffer the
new lien on 2105 Noble View.  The prohibition
created by the cited statutes makes such inquiry improper. Congress has chosen
to insulate FHFA from interference by the Court. In short, the determination is
left entirely to FHFA to make the call. FHFA, but not the Court, is entitled to
determine if it desires to make an arrangement impacting its property interest
in 2105 Nobel View.
The Receiver notes that:
“in its current physical condition
as well as its regulatory condition due to the City’s enforcement actions, the
Property has a considerably depreciated value. But with the requested
Court-approved funding, the Receiver will increase the value far more than the
cost of the remediation.”
While the Court appreciates this argument, the Court is not
entitled under the statutes to make its own evaluation and displace the
discretionary decision of FHFA regarding what is in its best interest to
protect its property interest. No doubt the present situation is untenable.  The property is in a very distressed
condition. It is a health and safety hazard. But the statutes preclude this
Court from imposing a new lien without the consent of FHFA.
FHFA and Community Mortgage Funding have not Waived their
Right to Assert the Statutes, Nor is their Objection Untimely
The Receiver argues that the objectors have both waived
their right to assert the benefit of the statutes and that their objection is
untimely. The Court disagrees. The above quoted statutes show a clear
legislative choice to preclude this Court from entertaining such arguments.
Congress has simply removed from this Court the ability to exercise its general
equitable powers or otherwise interfere with the exercise of the discretion of
FHFA to determine how best to protect its property interest.
The Receiver contends that the objections are untimely. The
Court disagrees. Even if the Court were to deem the objection untimely as to
the initial request for authority to create a super-priority of $30,000, the
Court cannot construe the failure to object to that $30,000 super-priority lien
as constituting a waiver to the Receiver’s request to create a super-priority
lien for an additional $644,000. Objectors timely responded to the request to
increase the lien over 20 times the original request.
More importantly, the Court construes the statutes as
precluding this Court from interfering with the discretion of FHFA regarding
its decision as to what is in its best interest with respect to the debt it
holds.
The Failure of FHFA to have Acted to Remediate the Blight
is Irrelevant to the Analysis
The Receiver suggests that objectors have been derelict in
their duty in allowing 2105 Nobel View to fall into disrepair for such an
extended period of time without them having taken steps to either foreclose or
remediate the health and safety concerns. (The foreclosure has been impacted by
Defendant Rico’s bankruptcy filing.) No doubt it is unfortunate that 2105 Noble
View is in its present distressed condition. The Receiver has identified
significant dangers and deficiencies that need to be addressed at this time.
The problems found by the Receiver are significant.
That said, the federal statutes still preclude this Court
from taking the action requested by the Receiver.
ORDER:
Based upon the foregoing, the Court DENIES the request of
the Receiver that the Court increase the existing super-priority Certificate by
$644,712.
The Court orders the parties to meet and confer in an effort
to reach an agreement that may allow the Receiver to proceed with the necessary
remediation efforts. Given what has been represented to this Court as the
likely value of 2105 Noble View, the existing debt held by FHFA and the amount
necessary to remediate the property, the Court hopes that the parties are
capable of reaching an agreement that will allow the remediation to move
forward in a timely manner.