 Case Number:  24CHCV00177    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-25-24
Case #24CHCV00177, Cole Freeman vs. State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant State Farm Automobile Insurance
Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Cole Freeman
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Strike
·        
Portions of Paragraph 8 (“said acts of each
Defendant was ratified by said Defendant’s co-Defendant managing agents”)
·        
Paragraph 9
·        
Paragraph 50
·        
Item b.(ii) of the prayer (punitive damages)
 
RULING: Motion to strike is granted in part.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Cole Freeman’s (Plaintiff) motorhome was
vandalized and sustained water damage. Plaintiff filed this action because he
alleges that Defendant State Farm Automobile Insurance Company (Defendant)
would not cover the full extent of Plaintiff’s losses.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges four causes of action for
(1) declaratory relief; (2) breach of contract; (3) breach of implied covenant
of good faith; and (4) bad faith denial of insurance coverage.
 
Defendant filed its motion to strike on March 4, 2023. Plaintiff
opposes Defendant’s motion. Defendant has moved to strike Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages and related allegations.
 
ANALYSIS
A court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” Under CCP § 436(b), the court may “[s]trike out all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
 
Punitive Damages
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.
at 725.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)
 
Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1004 explained that “punitive damages sometimes may be assessed in
unintentional tort actions.” Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-895 noted that “something more than the mere commission of a tort is
always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive
on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of
the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”
Indeed, “punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 (internal quotation omitted).)
 
The “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as
intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud or malice…within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
 
“It is not sufficient to allege merely that defendant ‘acted
with oppression, fraud or malice.’ Rather, plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious (e.g.,
that defendant acted with the intent to inflict great bodily harm on plaintiff
or to destroy plaintiff's property or reputation).” (Croskey, et al., Cal.
Prac. Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 13-C (Thomson Reuters, 2016) ¶ 13:197.2;
and see, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 598, 643 [allegations that defendant’s conduct was “intentional,
and done willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with
conscious disregard for Plaintiff's rights” did not satisfy specific pleading
requirements].)
 
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages is barred to the extent that any of the requests are based Plaintiff’s
breach of contract causes of action pursuant to Civ. Code § 3294, which
indicates that punitive damages are for the breach of an obligation “not
arising from contract.” The Court agrees that Plaintiff could not recover any
punitive damages for the breach of contract causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that he could recover
punitive damages for the tort claims, which he argues are the breach of the
implied covenant of good faith cause of action and the bad faith denial of
insurance coverage cause of action. The Court agrees that Plaintiff could
theoretically recover punitive damages for these causes of action if Plaintiff
proved malice, oppression, or fraud.
 
Next, Defendant argues that the complaint does not plead the
punitive damages claim with requisite specificity. Defendant argues that the
allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint do not support Plaintiff’s claim that
Defendant acted maliciously because Defendant inspected the motorhome on two
occasions and even extended coverage for a portion of damages to the motorhome.
(Comp., ¶¶ 19-21.) Courts have held that even when it is found that an insurer
breached its duty to deal reasonably with an insured, an insurer failing to
settle does not establish the quality of intent requisite to an award of
punitive damages. (Neal v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1978) 21 Cal.3d 910,
922.)
 
In opposition Plaintiff argues that his complaint
sufficiently pleads punitive damages. Plaintiff argues that his allegations of
motive in Paragraph 26 of the complaint are sufficiently justified by his
factual pleadings of the sequence of events, the denial of the claim, and
Defendant’s desire to reduce its own financial exposure. Defendant argues in
reply that Plaintiff’s allegations in Paragraph 26 regarding inconsistency with
the law do not hold weight because Defendant’s denial letter attached to Plaintiff’s
complaint does not acknowledge that the water loss was due to vandalism. The
Court agrees that Plaintiff’s argument does not have merit. Accordingly,
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient allegations to maintain a request for
punitive damages.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged
facts showing that the malicious conduct was taken or ratified by Defendant’s
officers, directors, or managing agents, as required by Civ. Code § 3294 (b) (“With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge [of the unfitness of the
employee] and conscious disregard [of the rights or safety of others],
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation”).
Plaintiff vaguely alludes to officers, directors or managing agents in
Paragraphs 8 and 9, but these allegations are conclusory and do not provide any
real allegations that Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing agents
ratified any malicious conduct.
 
Plaintiff argues in his opposition that he has met the
pleading requirements for alleging that Defendant’s actions were ratified. The Court
finds that Plaintiff has not met these pleading requirements. Furthermore,
there are inconsistencies between Plaintiff’s complaint and the documents
attached to Plaintiff’s complaint as to what Defendant’s investigators found to
be the source of the water damage.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike
is granted for Plaintiff’s punitive damages request and related allegations
(Paragraphs 8 (partial), 9, 50, and item b.(ii) of the prayer).
 
Plaintiffs are given 30 days leave to amend their complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.