  Case Number:  22CHCV01034    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-25-24
Case #22CHCV01034, Sarah Fry Bruch, et al. vs. Randall
Prince, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Plant Works Group, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Sarah Fry Bruch and Gregory
Bruch
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Negligence
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This complaint concerns a fire that injured decedent
Plaintiff David Bruch. The fire occurred at a building located at 8423 N.
Canoga Ave on October 18, 2021. Plaintiffs Sarah Fry Bruch and Gregory Bruch
(Plaintiffs) have alleged that each named Defendant contributed to the fire in
some way, through the equipment designed, manufactured, sold, or installed in
the building; by neglecting to adhere to building codes and regulations to
maintain the facility; and/or by failing to follow code compliance in the
operation of the business at the facility. 
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on November 1, 2022. In
their complaint, Plaintiffs have alleged eight causes of action related to
negligence and liability. Defendant Plant Works Group, Inc., (Defendant) is the
demurring party. On September 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to
Complaint (Fictitious/Incorrect Name) that identified Defendant as Doe 2. The
only cause of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint that included Doe 2 was Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action for negligence, which lists Does 1 through 30. 
 
After Plaintiffs amended their complaint to substitute
Defendant for Doe 2, Plaintiffs did not make any substantive subsequent amendments
to the allegations contained in their complaint. That means that there are no
specific allegations alleged in the complaint related to Defendant.
 
Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action
on December 12, 2023. Plaintiffs oppose Defendant’s demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First Cause of Action for Negligence
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action on the
basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and is uncertain.
 
To state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff needs to allege
that the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty of care, that the defendant breached
that duty, and that the plaintiff’s damages were proximately caused by the
breach. (Zamora v. Shell Oil Co. (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 204, 210.)
 
Plaintiffs have not alleged that Defendant Plant Works in
particular owed Plaintiffs a duty of care. Plaintiffs have alleged generally
that “each and all of the Defendants identified in Paragraph 33…and DOES 1
through 30 owed duties of care to foreseeable persons who were invited to be
on-site” at the property. (Comp., ¶ 30.) Beyond these allegations about the
Does, Plaintiffs’ complaint does not allege what Defendant’s connection to the
property was or why Defendant in particular owed Plaintiffs a duty of care.
Because Plaintiffs have not alleged that Defendant owed Plaintiffs a duty of
care, Plaintiffs have also not pled how Defendant breached any duty to
Plaintiffs. Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ complaint does not allege how Defendant
contributed to Plaintiffs’ damages. 
 
The complaint is also uncertain as to how Defendant was
involved with the incident that took place. There is nothing in the complaint
indicating whether Defendant owned the property, whether it caused the fire,
whether it manufactured materials in the property, whether it was a tenant
there, etc. Despite Plaintiffs’ arguments to the contrary in their opposition,
the complaint is not specific enough for Defendant to respond. It is also worth
noting that Plaintiff did match up each of the named Defendants with specific
actions they undertook or actions that they failed to perform properly.
Plaintiff must do the same for Defendant Plant Works
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action
for Negligence is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.