 Case Number:  24CHCV00365    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-25-24
Case #24CHCV00365,
John Labidi vs. Don Bratton
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS, ETC.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Don Bratton
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff John Labidi
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant has requested
that the Court quash the service of summons.
 
RULING:
Motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is an
unlawful detainer case filed on February 5, 2024. Plaintiff John Labidi
(Plaintiff) alleges that Defendant Don Bratton (Defendant) is continuing to
live in a rental property owned by Plaintiff despite having rent past due in an
amount over $50,000. When this action was commenced, the process server made
five attempts to serve Defendant personally at the rental property where
Defendant has been living. The process server represents that Defendant’s
vehicle was in the driveway on one occasion, and on another day Defendant
actually spoke to the process server but refused to open the door. Defendant
told the process server to get out of there and not to come back.
 
On February 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed an application to serve the process by posting, which the
Court granted on February 28, 2024. On March 7, 2024, a registered process
server posted the summons and complaint on Defendant’s door and sent a copy via
certified mail to Defendant.
 
Plaintiff
represents in his opposition that the day after the posting, Defendant’s
attorney contacted Plaintiff’s attorney and offered to accept service on behalf
of Defendant. Plaintiff’s attorney then provided Defendant’s attorney with a
copy of the proof of service. In response, Defendant’s counsel inquired about a
date for response to the complaint. Plaintiff’s attorney told him that it was
the time granted by statute. After Defendant’s attorney request for more time
to respond to the complaint was rebuffed, Defendant filed this motion to quash
service of summons on March 15, 2024. 
 
Defendant has
not filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
The return of
process is prima facie evidence of proper service. (Evidence Code § 647; Los
Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.2d 726, 731.) Where proof of service
exists, the burden is then on the other party to produce evidence that they
were not, in fact, served. (See Evidence Code § 604; Palm Property
Investments, LLC v. Yadegar 194 Cal.App.4th 1419.) Simply denying receipt
of service is not sufficient to overcome the presumption of service. (Palm
Property, 194 Cal.App.4th at 1428.)
 
In his motion,
Defendant denies that the five attempts were made to serve him with process,
citing CCP § 415.45(a). However, included with Plaintiff’s application to serve
summons by posting for unlawful detainer was a declaration of due diligence
from process server Carlos Canas. That declaration detailed each of the process
server’s five attempts to personally serve Defendant. Defendant simply denying
that these attempts were made is not sufficient to overcome the declaration and
presumption of service.
 
Motion to quash
service of summons is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.