

 
BACKGROUND
 
On September
28, 2018, Plaintiff Lamaas El (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant
Custody Assistant Soto alleging a single cause of action for general
negligence. The complaint arises from Plaintiff’s detention at Los Angeles
County Men’s Central Jail. The complaint alleges that on April 16, 2017, while
detained at Men’s Central Jail, Plaintiff was injured when a cell door closed
on him. 
 
On
February 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants
Custody Assistant Soto and Sheriff Jim McDonell, individually and officially.
The FAC asserted a single cause of action for negligence. 
 
On
October 1, 2021, the Court held an OSC re: Failure to File Proof of Service. At
the OSC, the Court indicated that it had lost jurisdiction over Defendant
Custody Assistant Soto pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 583.210 as
Plaintiff had not served Defendant Custody Assistant Soto with the FAC.
(October 1, 2021 Minute Order.) The Court ordered Defendant Custody Assistant
Soto dismissed without prejudice from the FAC. (Id.) 
 
On March
9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint.
On May 18, 2023, after hearing, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to file a Second Amended Complaint.  
 
On May
18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
against Defendant Los Angeles County Sheriff Robert Luna (“Defendant”), in his
official capacity, alleging a single cause of action for negligence. 
 
On August
25, 2023, Defendant filed and served a demurrer to the SAC. Defendant demurs to
the SAC on the grounds that the SAC does not state facts sufficient to establish
any of the causes of action against Defendant. On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to Defendant’s demurrer. On October 4, 2023, Defendant
filed a reply brief. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant contends
that the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against him because he was not connected to the jail in 2017 as he was the
Chief of the Long Beach Police Department. Defendant asserts that there are no
allegations to support vicarious liability.[1]
Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff did not comply with the Government Claims
Act and thus the negligence cause of action is barred. Defendant requests that
the demurrer be sustained without leave to amend. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff claims that Defendant assumed the responsibilities of the
former Sheriff Jim McDonell, who was the Sheriff during the time of the
incident. The opposition does not cite any legal authority.  
 
REPLY
 
            On Reply,
Defendant argues the Opposition admits that the person responsible for the
alleged incident was former Sheriff Jim McDonnell. Defendant also contends that
(1) the SAC does not plead sufficient facts to establish any of the causes of
action against Defendant, and (2) Plaintiff concedes that the Government Claims
Act bars Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
Prior to
filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is
required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) 
            On August 22, 2023, Defendant’s
Counsel and Plaintiff discussed the demurrer, Defendant’s request for judicial
notice, and the grounds for the demurrer. (Brenner Decl., ¶ 5.) The
parties were unable to come to an agreement and Defendant moved forward with
the instant demurrer.
B.        Judicial Notice 
            Judicial notice shall be taken of “[f]acts and
propositions of generalized knowledge that are so universally known that they
cannot reasonably be the subject of dispute.” (Evid. Code § 451(f).) To the
extent that a matter is not embraced in Evid. Code § 451, judicial notice may
be taken of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of
record of the United States or of any state of the United States.” (Evid. Code
§ 452(d).) A court must take judicial notice of any matter set forth in Evid.
Code § 452 if a party requests it and “(a) [g]ives each adverse party
sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or otherwise, to enable
such adverse party to prepare to meet the request; and (b) [f]urnishes the
court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of the
matter.” 
            The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice as
to Exhibits B, C, D, E, F, G, and H attached thereto. 
C.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. In assessing a
demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.  A complaint will
be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50. “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349. A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” Ibid. 
1.         First Cause of Action  
 
“To succeed in a negligence action,
the plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty,
(2) the defendant breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally
caused (4) the plaintiff’s damages or injuries.” Thomas v. Stenberg (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662. “A vicariously liable defendant and a negligent
defendant for whom the vicariously liable defendant bears liability, are
responsible for the same damages.” Schreiber v. Lee (2020) 47
Cal.App.5th 745, 761. 
 
Here, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has failed to allege the elements of duty or breach to support a
negligence cause of action. The SAC is set forth on a form PLD-PI-001. The
Court has reviewed the handwritten allegations of the SAC and the Court finds
that Plaintiff has failed to allege that Defendant owed a legal duty to
Plaintiff or breached a duty to Plaintiff. (See Attachment to SAC at
p.1.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s opposition concedes that Defendant was not the
Sheriff at the time of Plaintiff’s injuries. Opposition at 1:25-28.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has not stated a valid cause of action for negligence against
Defendant. 
 
2.         Plaintiff’s
Failure to Comply with the Government Claims Act 
 
            Defendant contends that Plaintiff
failed to comply with the Government Claims Act. Plaintiff’s opposition to the
demurrer failed to address such argument and the Court finds that Plaintiff has
conceded to such argument under Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo, supra,
111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. Although Plaintiff has conceded to Defendant’s
argument on this point, the Court will still assess the merits of such
argument. 
 
            “The Government Claims Act
established a standardized procedure for bringing personal injury claims
against local government entities.” Hernandez v. City of Stockton (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 1222, 1230. The claim must identify “[t]he name or names of the
public employee or employees causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known.” Ibid.
“[B]efore suing a public entity, the plaintiff must present a timely written
claim for damages to the public entity.” Rubenstein v. Doe No.1 (2017) 3
Cal.5th 903, 906. “Compliance with the claim presentation requirement is a
condition precedent to suing the public entity.” Ibid. “The claim must
be presented not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of
action.” Ibid. “Complaints that do not allege facts demonstrating either
that a claim was timely presented or that compliance with the claims statute is
excused are subject to a general demurrer for not stating facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” Ibid. “A claim relating to a cause of
action for death or injury to a person or to personal property . . . shall be
presented . . . not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of
action.” Gov. Code § 911.2(a). 
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s negligence cause
of action against Defendant is brought against Defendant in his official
capacity. The SAC alleges that Defendant is a public entity. SAC, ¶ 5(a)(4).
The SAC alleges that Plaintiff was injured on April 16, 2017. Despite the SAC
alleging that Plaintiff has complied with applicable claims statutes,
Defendant’s request for judicial notice contradicts such allegation. Plaintiff
did not file his claim for damages with the County of Los Angeles until August
20, 2018, which is more than six months after the alleged injury. Defendant’s
RJN at Exhibit F. Moreover, Plaintiff’s claim does not identify Defendant
as the person responsible for his purported injuries. Id. The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff did not comply with the Government Claims Act
pursuant to Rubenstein v. Doe No.1, supra, 3 Cal.5th 903, 906 and
Gov. Code § 911.2(a).  
 
            The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of
Defendant to the SAC without leave to amend. Plaintiff has failed to meet his
burden in showing a reasonable possibility of amendment. The opposition fails
to state how the SAC can be amended to state a valid cause of action. Although Plaintiff
is representing himself in pro per, a pro per litigant is held to
the same standard as an attorney. Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 536, 543. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            In sum, Defendant’s Demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 


