

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November
23, 2021, Plaintiff Cozi Capital, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Headlight Factory, LLC (“Headlight Factory”), Lawrence Khachatourian
(“Khachatourian”) (collectively, “Defendants”) and Does 1 through 20, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract and (2) account stated.
The complaint alleged that the parties entered into a written contract for a
business loan on January 15, 2019, and Defendants breached the contract in
February 2019 by failing to make the agreed-upon installment payment when it
came due.
 
On
January 13, 2023, defaults were entered against the Defendants. 
 
On
February 2, 2023, default judgment was entered against the Defendants. 
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to amend the judgment to add a judgment debtor and
enjoin the judgment debtors from transferring assets or income to other
entities. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
asserts that the Court has the authority to modify the judgment in this case to
add additional judgment debtor pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 187.
Plaintiff argues that amending the judgment to add Versani, Inc. as a judgment
debtor is appropriate because the company was incorporated by Khachatourian on
June 2, 2022, and it uses the same address, phone number and CEO as Headlight
Factory. Further, Versani Inc. is in the same business of wholesale auto parts
as Headlight Factory. Plaintiff reasons that the incorporation of Versani, Inc.
was merely an attempt to facilitate the fraudulent transfer of assets and
operations from Headlight Factor to Versani, Inc. Furthermore, Plaintiff
asserts that the judgment debtors should be enjoined from transferring any
assets pursuant to Civil Code § 3439.07.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None filed
as of October 26, 2023. 
 
REPLY
 
            None filed
as of October 26, 2023
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Request
for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiff
requests the Court to take judicial notice of the following documents:
(1)  
The
State of Information for Headlight Factory, which was filed with the California
Secretary of State on April 18, 2018;
(2)  
The
State of Information for Headlight Factory, which was filed with the California
Secretary of State on August 28, 2018;
(3)  
The
Articles of Incorporation for Versani, Inc., which was filed with the
California Secretary of State on June 2, 2022;
(4)  
The
State of Information for Versani, Inc., which was filed with the California
Secretary of State on September 22, 2022;
(5)  
The
webpage for Versani, Inc.;
(6)  
The
judgement entered in this action on February 2, 2023;
(7)  
The
complaint filed in this action on November 23, 2021;
(8)  
The
writ return dated August 10, 2023 from the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department.
The Court grants the request in its
entirety pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(c), (d), and (h).
II.        Motion to Amend Judgment

A.        Legal
Standard
“When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this code, or by any other
statute, conferred on a court or judicial officer, all the means necessary to
carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction,
if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this code or the
statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may
appear most conformable to the spirit of this code.”  Code Civ. Proc. § 187.  Further, “Section 187 contemplates amending a
judgment by noticed motion.”   Highland Springs Conference & Training
Center v. City of Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 280.
B.        Merits
Plaintiff moves
to amend the judgment to add Versani, Inc. as an additional judgment debtor on
the basis that it is the alter ego and successor corporation of Headlight
Factory.  See Notice of Motion at
pg. 2.  Further, Plaintiff seeks to
enjoin the Defendants and Versani Inc, and their agents and employees from
transferring any assets or income to other entities.  Ibid
“Modification of
a judgment may be proper when the newly-named defendant is an existing defendant’s
alter ego. ‘Under the alter ego doctrine, ... when the corporate form is used
to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful
or inequitable purpose, the courts will ignore the corporate entity and deem
the corporation’s acts to be those of the persons ... actually
controlling the corporation, in most instances the equitable owners. The
alter ego doctrine prevents individuals ... from misusing the corporate laws by
the device of a sham corporate entity formed for the purpose of committing
fraud or other misdeeds.”  Wolf Metals Inc. v. Rand Pacific Sales, Inc.
(2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 698, 703 (internal citations omitted).  
“Before the alter ego doctrine will be
invoked in California, two conditions generally must be met. ‘First, there must
be such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its
equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the
shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable
result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.’
While courts have developed a list of factors that may be analyzed in making
these determinations, ‘[t]here is no litmus test to determine when the
corporate veil will be pierced; rather the result will depend on the
circumstances of each particular case.’”  Curci Investments, LLC v.
Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 220–221 (internal citations omitted)
(alterations in original).   
“Modification of
a judgment may also be proper under the ‘successor corporation’ theory.
According to that theory, when a corporation sells or transfers all of its assets to
another corporation constituting its ‘mere continuation,’ the latter is also
liable for the former’s debts and liabilities. Generally, ‘California decisions
holding that a corporation acquiring the assets of another corporation is the
latter’s mere continuation and therefore liable for its debts have imposed such
liability only upon a showing of one or both of the following factual
elements: (1) no adequate consideration was given for the predecessor
corporation’s assets and made available for meeting the claims of its unsecured
creditors; (2) one or more persons were officers, directors, or stockholders of
both corporations.”  Wolf Metals Inc., supra,
4 Cal.App.5th at 704-705 (internal citations omitted) (emphasis added); McCellan v. Northridge Park Townhome
Owners Ass’n, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 753 (“If a corporation organizes another corporation
with practically the same shareholders and directors, transfers all the assets
but does not pay all the first corporation's debts, and continues to carry on
the same business, the separate entities may be disregarded and the new corporation
held liable for the obligations of the old.”).
            Here, in support of its alter ego
and successor corporation theories of liability, Plaintiff presents the
following undisputed evidence to show that Versani, Inc. should be added as a
judgment debtor. First, based on the filings with the California Secretary of
State in 2018, it is shown that Headlight Factory engaged in the business of
wholesale auto parts, was located at 11920 Sheldon Street, Unit A, Sun Valley, California
91352, and managed by Khachatourian, who was its sole member.  See RJN, Exhs. 1-2.  The address used here matches the one listed
in the loan agreement between the parties. 
See Goodman Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1. 
Second, after the complaint was filed on November 23, 2021,
Khachatourian later incorporated a separate business entity, Versani, Inc. on
June 2, 2022.  See RJN, Exhs. 3-4,
7.  Versani, Inc. is also located at 11920
Sheldon Street, Unit A, Sun Valley, California 91352, entirely controlled by
Khachatourian, and in the business of auto head lights.  Ibid. 
Both business entities also maintain the same phone number.  See Goodman Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exhs.
1-2.  Third, even though Versani, Inc.
was only recently incorporated, its website boasts that it has a ten-year
history of providing auto parts to its customers.  See RJN, Exh. 5.   Fourth, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department was unable levy the judgment against Headlight Factory because the
business licensee at 11920 Sheldon St. Unit A did not match the writ.  See RJN, Exh. 8.
 
            Under the circumstances, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently shown that Versani, Inc. is the successor
corporation to Headlight Factory. Because Versani, Inc. is operating the same
business as Headlight Factory and the former entity has seemingly ceased its
operations, it is clear that Versani, Inc. is a “mere continuation” of
Headlight Factory. Additionally, it is undisputed that Khachatourian controls
both entities. Thus, Versani, Inc. is liable for the debts of Headlight
Factory. See Wolf Metals Inc., supra, 4 Cal.App.5th at
704-705. Furthermore, to prevent the judgment debtors from escaping their
liability, they are enjoined pursuant to Civil Code § 3439.07(a)(3)(a) from
further transferring their assets or income to any other entity. 
 
            Accordingly, the motion is granted.
In the interest of judicial economy, the Court declines to address the argument
of whether Versani, Inc. is the alter ego of Headlight Factory.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order
to Amend the Judgment to Add Versani, Inc. is GRANTED. Additionally,
Plaintiff’s request for order enjoining the judgment debtors from transferring
assets or income to other entities pursuant to Civil Code § 3439.07 is GRANTED.

 
            Plaintiff is instructed to file a
proposed amended judgment reflecting this order within 10-court days.Counsel for the Moving party is ordered to give Notice.