 Case Number:  24AVCV00476    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a
personal injury action. On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff Paul Thalman (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against U-Haul Co. of California (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to
25. This action arises from an alleged accident (“Subject Accident”) that
occurred on April 30, 2023 at a U-Haul storage center located at 42925 Sierra
Highway, Lancaster, CA 93534. Plaintiff was loading a marble table using a
moving dolly into a truck rented from Defendant (“Rental Truck”). When
Plaintiff reached the top of the truck ramp, he took a couple of steps backward
and stepped on a loose metal plate in the truck bed. The metal plate gave way,
and Plaintiff fell to the ground with the table and dolly falling on top of
him. Plaintiff sustained injuries. The Complaint alleges two causes of action
for general negligence and premises liability. 
 
On June 17,
2024, Defendant filed the Answer.
 
On October 29,
2024, Defendant filed this Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay. 
 
On November 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed the opposition. 
 
On November 19,
2024, Defendant filed the reply. 
 
 
Analysis
 
Standard for Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
Parties may be
compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a
valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers
the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; see also Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th
955, 961.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿ 
 
“If a court of
competent jurisdiction. . .has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an
issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State,
the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.)¿¿ 
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
 
Under both the
Federal Arbitration Act and California law, Arbitration Clauses are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“With respect to
the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement
to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of
the contract to the court. (See¿Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 597; see also Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition
to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the
paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated
verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once such a document is presented to
the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who
may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings,
LLC¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff entered into a Self-Storage Rental Agreement (“Storage
Agreement”) on March 27, 2023, in which Plaintiff rented a self-storage unit
from Defendant on a monthly basis (Lapidus Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The Storage
Agreement contained an arbitration clause. (Ibid.) Defendant
incorporates the arbitration clause into the Motion and attached a copy of the
agreement. (Ibid.) Defendant’s theory is that the Storage Agreement
binds Plaintiff to arbitration because the Subject Accident happened while
Plaintiff was unloading his property from the storage unit onto the Rental
Truck. Defendant acknowledges that the Rental Truck that caused Plaintiff’s
injury was rented by Jacquilyn Crabtree (“Ms. Crabtree”), not Plaintiff, from
an independent U-Haul dealer located in Granada Hills, CA on April 30, 2023.
(Hill Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exh. A; Hatanian Decl., ¶ 3.) Ms. Crabtree signed a truck
rental agreement with the independent U-Haul dealer (“Rental Truck Agreement”)
that contained an arbitration clause. (Hill Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Subject Accident was solely caused by the
condition of the Rental Truck, and Plaintiff was not party to the Rental Truck
Agreement. Plaintiff argues that this action is outside of the scope of the
Storage Agreement. Plaintiff further argues that, even assuming the Storage
Agreement covers the Subject Accident, the Agreement had ended by that date.
The Storage Agreement was a month-to-month lease, and Plaintiff had only made
one and final payment for the period between March 27, 2023 and April 27, 2023,
when the next payment was due. (Hatanian Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2; Fish Decl., ¶2, Ex.
A.) Plaintiff argues he was removing his property from the storage unit on
April 30, 2023, on the date the accident occurred, although Plaintiff provides
no support for this contention. Plaintiff argues his actions—failing to pay on
the next monthly due date and removing his property from the unit—indicated his
intent to terminate the agreement, and any arbitration clause would be
ineffective to cover claims past April 27, 2023 (i.e., his claim
regarding the Subject Accident that occurred on April 30, 2023). Defendant
argues in reply that Plaintiff admitted he was in possession of the storage
unit past April 27, 2023 and provided no evidence suggesting otherwise.
 
            The
Court finds that Defendant has failed to meet its burden to establish a valid
arbitration agreement. The Storage Agreement does not bind Plaintiff to
arbitrate claims unrelated to the storage unit or the Storage Agreement. The
fact that the Subject Accident occurred at the site of the storage unit does
not place Plaintiff’s claims regarding the incident under the Storage
Agreement. Nowhere in the Complaint does Plaintiff mention the storage unit.
 
The Court finds
that the Storage Agreement explicitly states that it only covers claims related
to Plaintiff’s storage unit rental transaction. The Storage Agreement states
the following: 
 
“By engaging in a ‘Transaction,’
‘You’ and ‘U-Haul’ voluntarily and knowingly enter into this Arbitration
Agreement which waives your right to sue and bring claims in court, other than
as stated below, or have a jury resolve any dispute.”
 
“a. “Claims” is
broadly interpreted to include any dispute, complaint, controversy, or cause
of action related to your Transaction and to U-Haul. Claims, including
assigned claims, brought under any legal theory, whether at law or in equity,
are covered by this Agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, all
statutory and tort claims, that may be asserted.”
 
“d. “Transaction”
means the commencement, completion, or fulfillment of: A) a request or
reservation to rent or use a Storage Unit or to receive services; and/or B)
the use or review of the content of any U-Haul website.”
 
(Hill Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A, p. 15.)
(Emphasis added.)
 
            The
Court finds that the Storage Agreement, containing the aforementioned
arbitration clause, applies to claims related to the rental of the storage
unit, not the Rental Truck. Further, Ms. Crabtree, not Plaintiff, signed the
Rental Truck Agreement. (Hill Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A; Hatanian Decl., ¶ 3.) There
is no indication that Ms. Crabtree was signing on behalf of Plaintiff or as
Plaintiff’s agent. Plaintiff is not a party to the Rental Truck Agreement and
did not agree to arbitration claims relating to the Rental Truck. Defendant has
thus failed to establish that there is a binding arbitration agreement between
itself and Plaintiff for the claim arising from the Rental Truck. 
 
            The
Court acknowledges, but disagrees, with Plaintiff’s argument that Storage Agreement
had been terminated by Plaintiff before the Accident happened on April 30, 2024.
The Storage Agreement was a month-to-month lease, and Plaintiff had made his
one and final payment for the period between March 27, 2023 and April 27, 2023.
(Hatanian Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2; Fish Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Yet Defendant’s Contract
Overview indicates that Plaintiff maintained possession of the storage unit
until July 3, 2023. (Fish Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Plaintiff also admits in the
opposition that he continued to possess the storage unit until April 30, 2023,
thus extending the lease. (See Schmitt v. Felix (1958) 157 Cal.App.2d
642, 646 (“When a tenant under a lease remains in possession of the leased
premises with the permission of the lessor from month [to month] after the term
expires, a new tenancy is not created but the original tenancy is deemed to
have been extended.” (citations omitted.).) Plaintiff was still bound by the
Storage Agreement as long as Plaintiff possessed storage unit. Regardless, as
discussed earlier, the Storage Agreement does not cover Plaintiff’s claim where
it arises solely out of the Rental Truck’s condition. That the Storage
Agreement was effective on the day of the Subject Accident does not undo the
fact that Plaintiff and Defendant had no agreement to arbitrate claims outside
of the scope of the storage unit transaction. 
 
Enforceability 
            
Because the
Storage Agreement does not apply to Plaintiff’s claim, the Court need not
assess the parties’ arguments regarding the potential unconscionability of the
Storage Agreement and arbitration clause. 
            
Waiver
 
“[T]he court
shall [compel arbitration]. . .unless it determines. . .[t]he right to compel
arbitration has been waived.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) A party seeking to
prove a waiver may do so by showing “(1) knowledge of an existing right to
compel arbitration; (2) acts inconsistent with that existing right; and (3)
prejudice to the party opposing arbitration resulting from such inconsistent
acts.” (Richards v. Ernst & Young, LLP (9th Cir. 2013) 744 F3d
1072, 1074 (internal quotes omitted).) In determining waiver,
courts consider: whether the party demanding arbitration has taken action
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate, whether litigation
machinery “has been substantially invoked” and the parties “were well into
preparation of a lawsuit” before the party demanding arbitration notified the
opposing party of an intent to arbitrate, whether the party demanded
arbitration close to the trial date or delayed for a long
period before seeking a stay, whether a defendant seeking arbitration
filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings,
whether important intervening steps have taken place (e.g., taking
advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in
arbitration), and whether the delay “affected, misled, or prejudiced the
opposing party.” (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007)
41 Cal.App.4th 19, 31 (internal quotes omitted).)
 
Defendant argues
that it did not waive its right to enforce arbitration. Defendant argues that
it found out that the Subject Accident was connected to Plaintiff’s storage
rental on September 26, 2024. (Fish Decl., ¶ 7.) Once Defendant knew about the
connection, it demanded Plaintiff to arbitrate pursuant to the Storage
Agreement four days later. (Lapidus Decl., ¶ 2-3.) Defendant argues it thus did
not unequivocally waive its right to arbitrate. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant waived its right to arbitrate because Defendant has
provided no support explaining why it did not find out about the connection
between the Subject Accident and Plaintiff’s storage unit. Plaintiff argues
that Ms. Crabtree notified a U-Haul employee of the Subject Accident on the
date that it occurred, although there is no verified declaration supporting
this contention. Plaintiff further argues Defendant filed an answer that did
not raise arbitration. (Hatanian Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. 3.) Plaintiff also argues
Defendant propounded a written discovery request on Plaintiff, subpoenaed
Plaintiff’s medical records, and scheduled, but subsequently cancelled, a
deposition for Ms. Crabtree. (Hatanian Decl., ¶¶ 7-10, Exhs. 4-7.) Plaintiff
has also served written discovery requests on Defendant and Defendant has
served objections. (Hatanian Decl., ¶ 10, Exh. 7.) The parties have also agreed
to an informal discovery conference scheduled for November 27, 2024. (Hatanian
Decl., ¶ 7, Exh. 8)
 
            The
Court finds that Defendant has not waived its right to arbitrate, had the
Storage Agreement applied to Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff has not proven that
Defendant’s delay in seeking arbitration would result in prejudice against him.
Although Defendant has engaged in some discovery, a trial date has not yet been
set and the parties were not “well into preparation of a lawsuit” before
Defendant notified Plaintiff of its intent to arbitrate. (See Wagner,
supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 31.) The Court thus finds there is no waiver at
this juncture. 
 
            Nevertheless,
Plaintiff’s waiver defense is of no issue where there is no valid arbitration
agreement to waive. The lack of a valid agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant to arbitrate claims relating to the Rental Truck precludes Defendant
from compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Request to Stay.