 Case Number:  23AVCV00376    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action.
Plaintiff Andre Farmer (“Plaintiff”) alleges that, on or about December 8,
2019, he entered into a warranty contract Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant” or “GM”) regarding a 2017 Chevrolet Volt with the vehicle
identification number 1G1RC6S53HU104098 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was
manufactured and/or distributed by GM. Plaintiff states that the warranty
contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to:
bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty. Plaintiff
contends (1) defects and nonconformities occurred during the express warranty
period, including but not limited to, battery defects, engine defects,
electrical defects, transmission defects, and infotainment defects; and (2)
that Defendant knew (or should have known) that the battery system in the
Subject Vehicle had one or more defects which could lead to various problem and
Defendant failed to disclose such knowledge to him. Plaintiff further alleges
that Defendant had a duty to promptly offer to repurchase or replace the
Subject Vehicle at the time if it failed to conform the Subject Vehicle to the
terms of the express warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts; and
Defendant failed to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or to promptly
make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act and the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act.
 
On April 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed
his Complaint, alleging six causes of action for: (1) Violation of Cal. Civ.
Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of
Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3); Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability
(Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5); (5) Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment; and (6) Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
 
On May 8, 2023, defense counsel
Ryan Kay (“Kay”) filed a declaration, indicating an extension to the filing
date of a response under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).
 
On June 7, 2023, Defendant filed
a Demurrer with Motion to Strike as to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action
(Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) and his connected request for punitive
damages in the Prayer for Relief.
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the same causes of
action as the Complaint.
 
On October 5, 2023, GM filed a
renewed Demurrer with Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action and
his connected request for punitive damages in the Prayer for Relief from the
FAC (the “Demurrer”).
 
On December 12, 2023, following
the hearing, this Court overruled GM’s Demurrer and denied GM’s Motion to
Strike as to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action.
 
On December 21, 2023, GM filed
its Answer by denying, generally and specifically, every allegation in the FAC,
denying that the statute of limitations is tolled for Plaintiff’s FAC, and
asserting twenty-nine affirmative defenses.
 
On May 2, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary
Adjudication on all six causes of action in Plaintiff’s FAC.
 
On November 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition.
 
No Reply has been filed. “. .
.[A]ll reply papers [shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each
party] at least five court days before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a right may be
exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion, papers
opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.)
The hearing is set for November 26, 2024. Accordingly, a Reply was due by
November 19, 2024. Should a Reply be filed, it is now untimely.
 
Analysis
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(c), a trial judge is required “to grant summary judgment if all
the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion
must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication as to each of Plaintiff’s
causes of action on the following bases: (1) each of Plaintiff’s causes of
action for violations of the Song-Beverly Act (Causes of Action I – IV) are
foreclosed by the California Supreme Court’s recent decision in Rodriguez v.
FCA US, LLC (Oct. 31, 2024) 557 P.3d 735, 2024 WL 4631069 (“Rodriguez”);
(2) Plaintiff’s Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment claim (Cause of Action V)
fails as a matter of law because (a) Plaintiff did not plead the claim with the
requisite specificity, and (b) Plaintiff has not alleged a transactional
relationship between GM and Plaintiff giving rise to a duty to disclose; (4)
Plaintiff claim for violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (Cause of
Action VI) fails as a matter of law because there is no viable state law warranty
claim on which it can stand; and (5) even if Plaintiff’s claims withstand a
judgment for GM, Plaintiff cannot claim as “damages” the optional, non-GM
warranty Plaintiff purchased concurrently with the Subject Vehicle.
 
Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act
Claims for Breach of Express and Implied Warranty (Causes of Action I through IV)
 
Plaintiff brings four causes of
action for Defendant’s alleged violation of the Song-Beverly Act Consumer
Warranty Act. (Cal. Civ. Code, §§ 1791 et seq.) (the “Song-Beverly Act”
or the “Act.”) Plaintiff’s first through third causes of action relate to
violations of the Act’s express warranty provisions, and the fourth cause of
action relates to violations of the Act’s implied warranty provisions.
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action
claims that Defendant violated the refund-or-replace provision of the Act, Cal.
Civ. Code § 1793.2(d)(2), which “requires manufacturers to ‘promptly replace’ a
defective new motor vehicle or ‘promptly make restitution’ to the buyer when
the manufacturer is ‘unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle, as that
term is defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22, to
conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
attempts.’” (Rodriguez, supra, 557 P.3d at p. 737, quoting Cal. Civ.
Code § 1793(d)(2).)
 
 
Plaintiff’s second cause of
action claims that Defendant violated the 30-day requirement of the Act, Cal. Civ.
Code § 1793.2(b), which provides that a “manufacturer of consumer goods” shall
service or repair “goods . . . that do not conform with the applicable express
warranties” “so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days”
“[u]nless the buyer agrees in writing to the contrary.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff’s third cause of action
claims that Defendant violated the Act’s requirement that manufacturers of
consumer goods “make available to authorized service and repair facilities
sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during
the express warranty period.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3).) Failure to
provide the required facilities, or failure to make available the required
literature and replacement parts, allows the buyer to return non-conforming
goods to the retail seller or a retail seller of like goods, or to take the
goods to an independent facility for service or repair at the manufacturer’s
expense. (Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.3; see Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.5
(liability of manufacturer to retailer).)
 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action claims that Defendant violated the Act’s implied warranty provision, which
“requires consumer goods to be accompanied by the manufacturer’s and retail
seller’s implied warranty of merchantability (§ 1792) and by the manufacturer’s
implied warranty of fitness where the manufacturer has reason to know the buyer
is relying on its skill or judgment in furnishing a suitable good for a
particular purpose (§ 1792.1) (See § 1791.1) A consumer may sue the
manufacturer for breach of these warranties. (§ 1791.1, subd. (d); cf. § 1792
[retail seller has ‘a right of indemnity’ against the manufacturer for breach
of implied warranty of merchantability].)” (Rodriguez, supra, 557 P.3d
at p. 741.)
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s Causes
of Action I – IV on the basis that the California Supreme Court’s recent
decision in Rodriguez forecloses all of these causes of action. This
Court finds that Defendant’s assertion is correct.
 
The Rodriguez Court’s
central holding was that “a motor vehicle purchased with an unexpired
manufacturer’s new car warranty does not qualify as a ‘motor vehicle sold with
a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ under section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2) ’s
definition of ‘new motor vehicle’ unless the new car warranty was issued with
the sale.” (Rodriguez, supra, 557 P.3d at p. 737.) Therefore, the
Supreme Court held, a buyer of a used car that has some balance remaining from
“an unexpired manufacturer’s new car warranty” cannot sue for recovery under
the Song-Beverly Act’s refund-or-replace provision. (Ibid.)
 
This holding directly disposes of
Plaintiff’s first cause of action, for violation of the Act’s refund-or-replace
provision. The undisputed facts in evidence establish that Plaintiff entered
various warranty contracts with Defendant GM after purchasing the Subject
Vehicle used from a CarMax location. (GM Separate Statement, ¶ 2; Farmer
Separate Statement, ¶ 1; Farmer Decl., ¶ 1, Exh. 1 (indicating as “Buyer”
“Andre L. Farmer” and indicating as “Seller” “CarMax Auto Superstores
California, LLC”).) The undisputed facts further establish that Plaintiff was
not the original owner of the car, which was originally sold in April 20, 2016
(GM Separate Statement, ¶ 7; Kay Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 2 (GM’s “View Vehicle Delivery
Information” report,), and that GM did not issue any new warranty coverage to
Plaintiff or the Subject Vehicle when he purchased it from CarMax (GM Separate
Statement, ¶ 10; Farmer Separate Statement 2; FAC, ¶ 6, Exh. A (attaching a
copy of the Warranty that GM issued when the vehicle was delivered to its
original owner(s).) Further, although Plaintiff purchased a separate extended
service contract concurrently with his purchase of the Subject Vehicle, such
warranty was connected with a non-GM entity, “CNA National Warranty
Corporation.” (GM Separate Statement, ¶ 5; Farmer Decl., ¶ 1, Exh. 1,
Itemization of Amount Financed, Line A 10.)
 
Plaintiff seems to concede as
much, given that Plaintiff repeatedly states, both in his moving papers and Separate
Statement, that “Section 1793.22, subdivision (e), defines ‘new motor vehicle’
and specifically limits its use of the definition to Section 1793.2,
subdivision (d). That limitation does not carry over to other Song-Beverly
claims contained in Plaintiff’s Complaint, namely claims under Section 1793.2,
subdivision (b), Section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3), 1791.1, Section 1794, and
Section 1795.5.” (Opp., p. 14:6–10, Farmer Separate Statement ¶¶ 7, 8, 10; see
Opp., p. 15:2–4.) Thus, Plaintiff argues that, although his first cause of
action may be foreclosed by Rodriguez, his second, third, and fourth
causes of action still state valid claims under the Song-Beverly Act. This is
not true.
 
A major aspect of Rodriguez
Court’s ruling was the “overall framework of the Song-Beverly Act, which
distinguishes between new and used products and calibrates manufacturers’ and
sellers’ obligations accordingly.” (Rodriguez, supra, 557 P.3d at p.
740.) Although the other statutory provisions that Plaintiff cites to do not
incorporate Section 1793.22(e)(2)’s definition of “new motor vehicle,” they
instead incorporate references to “manufacturers of consumer goods.” (See
Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1793.2(a)(3), 1793.2(b), 1791.1, 1794.) “ ‘ “Consumer goods”
means any new product or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased
for use primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, except for
clothing and consumables.’ (§ 1791, subd. (a).)” (Rodriguez, supra, at p.
740 (emphasis added).) Accordingly, the fact that Plaintiff purchased
the Subject Vehicle used from CarMax instead of new from GM similarly
forecloses Plaintiff’s recovery under his second, third, and fourth causes of
action, whose applicable statutory language, as discussed above, all explicitly
refer to “manufacturers of consumer goods.”
 
The Rodriguez Court also
notes, however, that the Song-Beverly Act provides separate protections for
purchasers of used cars. (Cal. Civ. Code § 1795.5.) The Court ruled on the
Song-Beverly Act’s protections available for used vehicles as follows:
 
Section 1795.5
says: “Notwithstanding the provision of subdivision (a) of Section 1791
defining consumer goods to mean ‘new’ goods, the obligation of a distributor or
retail seller of used consumer goods in a sale in which an express warranty
is given shall be the same as that imposed on manufacturers under this
chapter,” with certain exceptions. (Italics added.) In other words, “[s]ection
1795.5 provides express warranty protections for used goods only where the
entity selling the used product issues an express warranty at the time of
sale.” [Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, 218.] In
addition, the obligation to maintain adequate repair facilities lies with “the
distributor or  retail seller making
express warranties with respect to used consumer goods (and not the original
manufacturer, distributor, or retail seller making express warranties with
respect to such goods when new).” (§ 1795.5, subd. (a).) Further, subdivision
(c) of Section 1795.5 provides for implied warranties of merchantability and
fitness by the distributor or retail seller, with those warranties having a
shorter duration than the manufacturer’s implied warranties for new products.
(See Ruiz Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 399, 275
Cal.Rptr.3d 618 (Ruiz Nunez) [under section 1795.5, “only distributors
or sellers of used goods – not manufacturers of new goods – have
implied warranty obligations in the sale of used goods”].)
 
Thus, the basic
framework of the Song-Beverly Act distinguishes between new and used products
and “provides similar remedies in the context of the sale of used goods, except
that the manufacturer is generally off the hook.” (Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 339, 256 Cal.Rptr.3d (Kiluk).)
 
. . .
 
From this
statutory context and history, we discern two points. First, in enacting and
amending the Song-Beverly Act, the Legislature has maintained a distinction
between “new” and “used” products and has specified the warranty protections
applicable to each category.
 
. . .
 
Second, section
1795.5, which governs used goods, makes clear that the same warranty
protections that consumers of new products have against manufacturers apply to
consumers of used products against distributors or retail sellers “in a sale in
which an express warranty is given.” In other words, just as with new products,
the Act’s remedies for failure to repair a used product in conformity with an
express warranty have applicability where the express warranty accompanies the
sale of the product. For new products, liability extends to the manufacturer;
for used products, liability extends to the distributor or retail seller and
not to the manufacturer, at least where the manufacturer has not issued a new
warranty or played a substantial role in the sale of a used good. (See Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 218, 292 Cal.Rptr.3d 382; Ruiz Nunez, supra,
61 Cal.App.5th at p. 399, 275 Cal.Rptr.3d 618; Kiluk, supra, 43
Cal.App.5th at pp. 339–340, 256 Cal.Rptr.3d 484.) 
 
. . .
 
(Rodriguez, supra, 557
P.3d at p. 740–741.)
 
Thus, Defendant has satisfied his
burden of proof to negate an essential element of Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act
claims by presenting evidence that Plaintiff cannot claim either of the
following facts: (1) that the Subject Vehicle is new, (2) that GM entered any
new warranty agreements with Plaintiff or the Subject Vehicle when Plaintiff
bought it. (See State v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1008, 1017
(moving party must show that plaintiff cannot establish one or more elements of
his causes of action).) As the Court’s decision in Rodriguez implies,
although Plaintiff may have valid claims under the Song-Beverly Act, such
claims would need to be levied against the “distributor or retail seller” of
his used car, in this case CarMax. (See Rodriguez, supra, at p. 741.)
Further, Plaintiff has not, and cannot, present any evidence sufficient to show
a triable issue of material fact of whether the Subject Vehicle was new or used
because the undisputed evidence shows that it was used.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as
to Plaintiff’s Causes of Action I – IV.
 
Plaintiff’s Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment Claim (Cause of Action V)
 
Plaintiff Has Pled Fraud with
the Required Specificity
 
As in Defendant’s Demurrer to the
FAC, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is not pled with
the requisite specificity, and therefore Plaintiff’s Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment claim must fail as a matter of law.
 
In order to prove a fraudulent
concealment claim, a plaintiff must present facts sufficient to show: (1)
defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) defendant was under a
duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) defendant intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4)
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted in the same way
knowing of the concealed or suppressed fact; (5) causation; and (6) the
plaintiff sustained damage. (Blickman v. Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.)
 
Although fraud claims must
generally be pled with specificity, this Court previously noted in its Order
ruling on Defendant’s Demurrer, that “[l]ess specificity is required when it
‘appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily
possess ful information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216 [quoting Bradley v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30
Cal.App.3d 818, 825]; see also Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 (rule
of specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom, and by what means,
misrepresentations were communicated, applies to affirmative
misrepresentations, not to concealment) Jones v. ConocoPhillips (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1200 (concealment is sufficiently pled when the complaint
as a whole provides sufficient notice of the particular claims against
defendants).)
 
As with his prior objection to
Plaintiff’s pleadings, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s fraudulent
concealment claim fails as a matter of law because he failed to allege (i) the
identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed material facts or
made untrue representations about the Subject Vehicle, (ii) their authority to
speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) Defendant’s knowledge about alleged
defects in the Subject Vehicle at the time of purchase, (iv) any interactions
with Defendant before or during the purchase of the Volt, or (v) Defendant’s
intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the Subject Vehicle as is.
Essentially, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to demonstrate GM’s intent
to defraud Plaintiff or demonstrate that the Volt was unsuitable for its
intended use at the time of purchase.
 
However, this Court directly
addressed such contentions in its previous Order overruling Defendant’s
Demurrer, and found that the following allegations were sufficient to sustain
Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim: (1) “[Defendant] knew since 2016 that
the model year 2017 or newer Chevrolet Volt EV vehicles, including 2017
Chevrolet Volt vehicles such as the Subject Vehicle . . ., contained one or
more design and/or manufacturing defects in the battery . . .” (FAC, ¶ 21); (2)
“on November 13, 2020, GM issued NHTSA Recall No. 20V-701/GM Recall No.
N202311730, as an interim remedy. The repair procedure calls for dealers to
program the hybrid propulsion control module 2 (HPCM2) to limit full charge of
the battery to 90%. The revised software is intended to limit the vehicle’s
full charge to 90% of the battery capacity” (FAC, ¶ 36); and (3) “[o]n July 14,
2021, even for those that had the Recall performed, GM instructed owners and
lessees of these Chevy Vehicles to ‘park their vehicles outside away from homes
and other structures immediately after charging and . . . not leave their
vehicles charging overnight” (FAC ¶ 37).
 
This Court upholds its prior
ruling and finds, as previously, that Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to
plead a claim for fraudulent concealment.
 
Plaintiff Alleges a
Transactional Relationship Between GM and Plaintiff Giving Rise to a Duty to
Disclose
 
Defendant also argues, as with
his Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC, that Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim
fails as a matter of law because he does not allege a transactional
relationship between the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose.
 
In Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.
(2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (“Bigler-Engler”), the court analyzed its own ruling
in LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 (“LiMandri”) to
determine when a duty to disclose arises:
 
In that case [LiMandri],
we explained, “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.’” (Id. at p. 336.) Where, as here, a fiduciary relationship does
not exist between the parties, only the latter three circumstances may apply.
These three circumstances, however, “presuppose[] the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose
can arise.” (Id. at pp. 336-337.) “A duty to disclose facts arises only
when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as
“‘seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.”’” (Shin v. Kong
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 498, 509 [95 Cal.Rptr.2d 304].)
 
(Bigler-Engler, supra, 7
Cal.App.5th at 311.)
 
As in his Demurrer, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot establish that any of these three latter
circumstances apply. Defendant cites to the Bigler-Engler court’s
emphasis that such transactional relationships “must necessarily arise from
direct dealings between the plaintiff and defendant; it cannot arise between
the defendant and the public at large.” (Id., at p. 311.) Defendant
argues that because Plaintiff did not purchase his Volt directly from GM, any
alleged concealment by GM did not arise in a direct transaction between
Plaintiff and GM.
 
However, as this Court previously
noted, Defendant failed to address that this statement includes parties
entering into a contractual agreement, which necessarily includes warranty
contracts such as the one in this action. (See also Bigler-Engler, supra,
at p. 314 (to satisfy the requisite transactional relationship that gives rise
to the duty to disclose, a plaintiff may present evidence of the defendant’s
advertising products to consumers such as the plaintiff, or defendant’s
deriving a monetary benefit from the plaintiff); Shapiro v. Sutherland
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1534, 1549 (“the principle of indirect deception has been
recognized . . .” as reflected in BAJI No. 12.50, relating to concealment and
deceit with respect to persons not in privity with the defendant).)
 
Further, the undisputed facts in
evidence demonstrate that, even if the Bumper-to-Bumper warranty between GM and
Plaintiff and the Subject Vehicle had expired at the time Plaintiff purchased
the Subject Vehicle from CarMax, the Powertrain Warranty was still effective
because it only expired sometime between June 15, 2020, and October 2, 2020,
when Plaintiff brought the Subject Vehicle in for recall repair. (GM Separate
Statement ¶¶ 9, 11.) These facts show that at the time Plaintiff purchased the
Subject Vehicle, at least one of the contractual warranty agreements levied by
GM to the Subject Vehicle, and purchased by Plaintiff as a result of his
purchase of the Subject Vehicle, was still in effect.
 
Thus, Defendant has not met its
burden of establishing facts to negate an essential element of Plaintiff’s
fraudulent concealment claim.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED as
to Plaintiff’s Cause of Action V. 
 
Plaintiff’s Magnusson-Moss
Warranty Act Claim (Cause of Action VI)
 
Plaintiff’s Cause of Action IV
alleges that Defendant violated the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (15 U.S.C. §§
2301, et seq.) (“Magnuson-Moss”).
 
“Magnuson-Moss governs warranties
for consumer products distributed in interstate commerce. It requires
disclosures in connection with written warranties, regulates the substantive
content of warranties, and establishes a federal cause of action for breach of
a written or an implied warranty (15 U.S.C. § 2310(d)), among other provisions.
Magnuson-Moss does not substitute federal law for state law of consumer product
warranties, but instead supplements state law.” (Orichian v. BMW of N. Am.,
LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.) “Magnusson-Moss ‘calls for the
application of state written and implied warranty law, not the creation of
additional federal law,’ except in specific instances in which it expressly
prescribes a regulating rule.” (Daugherty v. Am. Honda Motor Co. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 824, 833.) Accordingly, the Daugherty court held that
the “failure to state a warranty claim under state law necessarily
constitute[s] a failure to state a claim under Magnuson-Moss.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant cites to Daugherty,
supra, for the contention that a failure to state a viable breach of
warranty claim under state law, e.g., the Song-Beverly Act, constitutes a
failure to state a claim under Magnuson-Moss. Defendant further cites to Jose
Javier Arana v. Tesla Motors, Inc., et al., (C.D. Cal. Feb. 7, 2023) No.
2:22-CV-08664-RGK-JC, 2023 WL 1796956 (“Arana”). In Arana, the
plaintiff purchased a used Tesla from a third-party dealership, which had
11,107 miles at the time of purchase, and which the plaintiff alleged was sold
with the remaining balance of Tesla's new-vehicle express warranties for
bumper-to-bumper coverage and powertrain coverage. (Id., at p. *1.) The Arana
court held that, pursuant to the Fourth District Court’s ruling in Rodriguez,
the plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act claims were foreclosed because plaintiff
purchased the car used, not new. The court further held that “Plaintiff’s MMWA
[claim] must fail because his SBA claim fails.” (Id. at p. *3.) The Arana
court also addressed the plaintiff’s contention that, based on Dagher v.
Ford Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905 (“Dagher”), his
Magnuson-Moss claim could survive defendant’s motion to dismiss based on
application of the California Uniform Commercial Code. The Arana court
rejected the plaintiff’s argument because, unlike in Dagher, plaintiff
did not bring any causes of action under the California Uniform Commercial Code
in his complaint, or move to amend his complaint to include such causes of
action while the motion was processing. (Arana, supra, at p. *3.)
 
In Dagher, which Plaintiff
cites in support of his contention that his Magnuson-Moss claim can survive
independent of his Song-Beverly Act claims, the court addressed factual
circumstances like the circumstances here, and as in Arana. The Dagher
plaintiff purchased a used Ford F-350 from private parties, not a Ford
dealership. (Dagher, supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at p. 912.) In Ford’s motion
for summary judgment, the Dagher court ruled in favor of Ford because
plaintiff did not purchase the vehicle new and therefore lacked standing under
the Song-Beverly Act. (Id., at p. 924.) 
 
However, the Dagher court
did not grant summary judgment against plaintiff’s Magnuson-Moss claim. During
the pendency of the defendant’s motion for summary judgment, plaintiff moved to
amend his complaint to assert claims under Magnuson-Moss based on Ford’s breach
of the express warranty and implied warranty provisions of the UCC. (Id.,
at p. 913.) Accordingly, the court found that the plaintiff’s Magnuson-Moss
claim survived summary judgment because the plaintiff had valid claims under
the UCC by seeking repairs for apparent defects during the unexpired
transferred warranty period. (Id., at p. 928.)
 
Here, this Court notes that,
because Arana is an unpublished opinion of the United States District
Court for the Central District of California, Defendant may only cite it as
persuasive authority on this Court. However, Dagher, as a published
opinion of the Court of Appeal for the Fourth District in California, is
binding precedent upon this Court.
 
This Court further notes that,
like in Dagher, the undisputed facts in the record demonstrate that
Plaintiff sought repairs from Defendant for apparent defects in the Subject
Vehicle during the unexpired transferred warranty period under the Powertrain
Warranty period at least one time. (GM’s Separate Statement, ¶ 12.) Despite
seeking this repair, the undisputed facts in the record further demonstrate
that the issues with the Subject Vehicle persisted, and Plaintiff sought
further repairs for apparent defects to the Subject Vehicle after this initial
repair attempt. (GM’s Separate Statement, ¶¶ 12, 13.) Thus, Defendant has
failed to present sufficient evidence to sustain its initial burden of
disproving an essential element of Plaintiff’s Magnuson-Moss claim, and that
like, in Dagher, Plaintiff’s Magnuson-Moss claim may survive independent
of Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act claims based on breach of warranty claims under
the California Uniform Commercial Code.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED as
to Plaintiff’s Cause of Action VI. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment. 
 
And the Court GRANTS in part and
DENIES in part Defendant’s Motion in the alternative for Summary Adjudication. 
 
The Court GRANTS Summary Adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s Causes of Action I – IV. The Court DENIES Summary Adjudication as
to Plaintiff’s Cause of Action V and VI.