 Case Number:  24AVCV00806    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a breach
of contract case. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff Coates Construction Inc. (Plaintiff)
filed suit against Defendants RTMS LEASING- California II, LLC (RTMS), and
Antelope Valley Hospital (AVH; collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleged that
it entered into an agreement with Defendants regarding building an extension to
AVH’s emergency treatment facility. Plaintiff was to provide labor and
materials necessary for the site including construction of the foundations so
that RTMS could install the modular building components. RTMS’s design issues
caused unreasonable delays which it foisted upon Plaintiff, eventually leading
RTMS to wrongfully terminate the Agreement. Plaintiff sued. 
 
Now RMTS moves
to compel the parties to arbitration. AVH opposes the motion. 
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
RTMS request for judicial notice of the fact
that Antelope Valley Healthcare District is a public entity, and that Edward
Mirzabegian is Chief Executive Officer of the Antelope Valley Healthcare
District is GRANTED. (Evid. Code, §452, subd. (h).)
 
AVH’s request for judicial notice of the Complaint,
and Plaintiff’s request for dismissal of two causes of action in that Complaint
are denied as unnecessary. The court may refer to its own docket absent
judicial notice. 
 
AVH’s objections to the declaration of
Zachariah Tomli and Michael Kosinski are overruled. 
 
 
 
Analysis
 
Legal  Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, a court may
order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that the parties have agreed to
arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to arbitrate arises from contract,
the court may compel arbitration only if the dispute in question is one in
which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored method of dispute
resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v. Silberstein
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
The moving party bears the initial burden
“of producing prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66 (Gamboa).) The moving party must establish “the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence.” (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
 972 (Engalla).) 
 
The moving party can meet this burden “by
attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the opposing party’s signature.” (Gamboa, supra, 72
Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden
by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (Ibid; see
also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“The provisions must be stated verbatim
or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and
incorporated by reference”].) “If the moving party meets it initial prima facie
burden and the opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration
agreement, then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its
burden of persuasion.” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.)
 
Existence of a Valid
Agreement
 
            In
ruling on a petition to compel arbitration, a court must determine two
threshold matters: first, whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; and
second, whether that agreement encompasses the dispute at issue. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.)   
 
By way of
background, on November 11th, 2020, Plaintiff and RTMS entered into an agreement
(“Agreement”). (Declaration of Michael Kosinski [“Kosinski Decl.”], ¶11, Ex A [“Agreement”].)
The Agreement states that “This Agreement has been approved by Antelope Valley
Hospital (‘AVH’ or ‘Owner’) which is the owner of the site on which the Project
will be built. . .” (Agreement, ¶Preamble.) In moving for arbitration, RTMS
request a court order compelling the parties to arbitrate the claims pursuant
to this Agreement. 
 
            Acknowledging
that the Agreement do not identify AVH as one of the parties entering into it,
RTMS argues AVH is nonetheless bound to the agreement after having been
referred to throughout and having signed as acknowledging the terms and
conditions of the Agreement. 
 
            “A
contract must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of
the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is
ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, §1636.) “The words of a contract are to
be understood in their ordinary and popular sense. . .; unless used by the
parties in a technical sense, or unless a special meaning is given to them by
usage, in which case the latter must be followed.” (Civ. Code, §1644.)
 
            Here,
the terms of the Agreement are definite and clear that while Plaintiff is a “Party”
bound to the terms of the Agreement, AVH is not. 
 
The Agreement defines
Plaintiff as “Contractor” and RTMS as “Purchaser.” (Agreement, ¶Preamble.) In
the “Project Participants” section it states “ ‘Party’ means either of Contract
or Purchaser and ‘Parties’ means both Contractor and Purchaser.” (Agreement,
¶2) AVH is expressly excluded from the definition of “Parties”. The arbitration
provision states: 
 
The Parties
agree to first seek to resolve any dispute by good faith negotiations. If a
dispute is not promptly resolved through negotiation, and if not resolved in
any event within five (5) business days, the dispute will be submitted to the
AOR for decision. In reaching a decision the AOR may involve Contractor,
Purchaser, AVH, and any relevant third parties for resolution and decision, and
the AOR shall attempt to issue a decision within ten (10) business days after
the AOR notified of the dispute. 
 
(Agreement, ¶16 [emphasis added].)
 The plain language of the Agreement
defines the terms “Parties” and then uses that defined terms to state who agrees
to arbitration. The arbitration provision also differentiates “Parties” from AVH
when it states that the arbitrator may involve AVH in reaching a decision. Were
AVH bound to arbitrate there would be no need to identify it as an entity the
arbitrator could consult with or “involve” in reaching a decision.  
 
            The
signature blocks also indicate that AVH is not a party to the Agreement. Above
RTMS and Plaintiff’s signatures—which are side-by-side in a separated box—is
the final paragraph of the contract which states that “The Parties intend
for this writing to be the complete and final expression of their agreement.”
(Agreement, ¶25 [emphasis added].) Above Edward Mirzabegian’s signature block
identifying him as the CEO of AVH, on the other hand, it states: 
 
This Agreement is
acknowledged by AVH, as the Owner of the project Site and the intended occupant
and tenant of the Modular Building to be constructed as part of the Project.
AVH acknowledges that the terms and conditions of this Agreement may affect or result
in Additional Charges to AVH under the Installation Services and Warranty
Agreement entered into by and between AVH and RAD Technology Medical Systems,
LLC (the parent company of Purchaser).
 
(Agreement, at p. 15.) Mirzabegian’s
signature is separate from the signatures of the previously defined Parties and
the language directly prior to it demonstrates the Parties and AVH intended to
differentiate AVH. 
 
            In
the reply RTMS continues to argue that as a signatory AVH is bound to the
entire Agreement. RTMS argues that in signing the agreement AVH manifested
assent to all the terms and that signatories are bound to the provisions of
what they sign. (See Meyer v. Benko (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 937, 942-43.)
However, contrary to RTMS’s position, the court is following the rule the
signatories are bound to what they sign in finding AVH is not a party. The
Agreement explicitly excludes AVH from the definition of party, and uses a
defined term in describing who agrees to arbitration. It also includes specific
language to ensure it is clear that AVH’s signature serves a limited purpose.
Had the parties wanted to AVH to be bound by the arbitration provision they
could have drafted the Agreement to do so. In asking the court to compel AVH to
arbitration, RTMS is asking it to disregard the express contractual terms; it
cannot.
 
            Furthermore,
there is no consideration binding AVH to the agreement or any manifestation of
mutual assent via a promise to begin or render some performance.  (See Rest.2d Contract, §18 [“Manifestation of
mutual assent to an exchange requires that each party either make a promise or
begin or render a performance.”].) A review of the Agreement confirms that AVH
made no promises to perform. While AVH is referenced regularly in the
Agreement, none of the references compel AVH to act. For example, the Parties
state that changes can be made to the Agreement in several ways including
“under a separate written agreement signed by Contractor, Purchase, AVH and the
AOR. . .” (Agreement, ¶3.) This language does not obligate AVH to enter into a
separate written agreement, it simply prohibits the Parties from doing so
without AVH’s permission.  
 
As another
example, the Agreement states that if the contractor fails to prosecute the
work and fourteen days have passed without adequate assurances, then “Purchaser
may, with AOR and AJH and AVH approval, and without further notice to Contractor
terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part. . .” (Agreement, ¶4.) In this
provision AVH is referenced, but has no obligation. AVH has not responsible for
reviewing Purchaser’s notice, giving approval, or taking any specific action.
The provision simply limits the Purchaser’s ability to take certain action
without AVH’s approval. AHS’s obligation to take action may exist elsewhere,
such as in a contract between RTMS and AVH, but it does not exist in this provision.

            
            RTMS
also argues that it may enforce the arbitration against AVH because AVH is a third-party
beneficiary. 
 
“Under
California law, a nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate under two sets of
circumstances: (1) where the nonsignatory is a third party beneficiary of the
contract containing the arbitration agreement; and [(]2) where a preexisting
relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the parties to the
arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel the nonsignatory to also
be bound to arbitrate his or her claim.” (Crowley Mar. Corp. v. Bos. Old
Colony Ins. Co., (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1069–70.)
 
In considering
the first prong the court looks to the definition of a third party beneficiary.
“A third party beneficiary is someone who may enforce a contract because the
contract is made expressly for his benefit. 
[Citation.]  The test for
determining whether a contract was made for the benefit of a third person is
whether an intent to benefit a third person appears from the terms of the
contract. [Citation.]  The mere fact that
a contract results in benefits to a third party does not render that party a
third party beneficiary. [Citation]”  (Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 973 [internal quotation marks
and brackets omitted].)
 
RTMS relies on
the reasoning Loduca v. Polyzos (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 334, 343 (Loduca)
to support that it can compel AVH to arbitration as a third party beneficiary.
In Loduca, “a property owner, as a third party beneficiary, sued a
subcontractor in contract and tort for breach of the contract between the
subcontractor and the general contractor.” (Id. at p. 337.) The court
granted the owner’s motion for attorney fees pursuant to an attorney fee clause
in the contract between the subcontractor and general contractor. In affirming
the trial court’s decision to award attorneys’ fees to the owner, the Court of
Appeal explained that the owner was an “intended third party beneficiary.” (Id.
at p. 343.)
 
The court
reasoned that the contract expressly named the owner in the reference line, the
attorneys’ fees provision did not limit recovery only to the parties, the
contract did not impose any limitation on third party rights, and the
relationship between the owner and the subcontractor was sufficiently close. (Id.
at pp. 343-344.) 
 
However, Session
Payroll Management Inc., v. Noble Const. Co. Inc (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 671
(Session Payroll) is the more persuasive authority because the facts are
more analogous to the present suit. In Session Payroll, the Court of
Appeal reversed an award of attorneys’ fees to a defendant signatory against a
losing plaintiff third-party. 
 
The issue was
whether, pursuant the principles of reciprocity imposed by Civil Code section
1717, the plaintiff would have been entitled to attorney’s fees as a third-party
beneficiary on a contract between a general contractor and subcontractor. He
was not. (Id. at p. 680.) The court reasoned that the underlying
contract gave no indication that the parties “agreed or intended to include
[plaintiff] within the attorney fee provision” and the agreement expressly
disclaimed that it created any rights or conferred any benefits on their
parties “ ‘[e]xcept as specifically prescribed. . .’ ” (Ibid.)
 
Here, similar to
Session Payroll, the parties explicitly limit the application of the
third-party beneficiaries doctrine. The Agreement states “[i]t is not intended
by any of the provisions of this Agreement to create any third-party
beneficiary relationship. . . except to the extent that specific provisions
(such as the warranty and indemnity provisions) identify third parties and state
that they are entitled to benefits hereunder.” (Agreement, ¶19.) Also, similar
to Session Payroll, the parties explicitly identified who was bound by
the arbitration provisions, i.e., “Parties”. (Agreement, ¶16.) 
 
Yet, even
assuming that AVH was a third-party beneficiary, RTMS still fails to
demonstrate a sufficiently close relationship between AVH and RTMS as required
under the Crowley test. In Crawley, the court stated “[e]xamples
of the preexisting relationship include agency, spousal relationship,
parent-child relationship and the relationship of a general partner to a
limited partnership.” (Crowley, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at p. 1070.) As
another example, in Loduca, the court found the relationship close
because the subcontractor accepted payment directly from the owner and the
subcontractor, who authored the contract, and the general contractor “both
understood [the owner] to be the only intended beneficiary who could enforce
the contract.” (Loduca, supra, 84 Cal.App.4th at p. 343.)
 
Here, the court
lacks evidence of any sufficiently close preexisting relationship between RTMS
and AVH such that compelling arbitration is appropriate. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion is DENIED as to AVH. 
 
Plaintiff does
not oppose the motion and as discussed above, is a party to the Agreement and
its arbitration provision. The motion to compel Plaintiff to arbitration is GRANTED.

 
Conclusion
 
The Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED in part. The motion to compel Plaintiff to
arbitration is GRANTED. The motion to compel AVH to arbitration is DENIED. 
 
The case is
stayed pending arbitration. 
 
RTMS is to give notice.