 Case Number:  23AVCV00654    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a
negligence and premises liability action. On June 16, 2023, Plaintiff Juan
Alvarez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants EPIC Auto
Dismantling, Inc. (“EPIC”), TVBD Real Estate LLC (“TVBD”), and Does 1 to 20.
This action arises out of an alleged accident that occurred on June 19, 2021 on
private property owned by Defendants located at 37855 90th Street East,
Littlerock, CA 93543 (“Junkyard”). The Complaint alleges Defendants ran a
business at the Junkyard in which goods for sale were made available to the
public. Plaintiff walked into the Junkyard and went inside one of the vehicles.
As Plaintiff was partially inside the vehicle, a forklift operated by an EPIC
employee allegedly listed the vehicle up into the air and abruptly lowered it
back down, causing Plaintiff to sustain serious injuries. The Complaint alleges
two causes of action for negligence and premises liability. 
 
On October 28,
2024, TVBD filed this Demurrer without Motion to Strike.
 
On November 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed the opposition. 
 
On November 19,
2024, TVBD filed the reply. 
 
Analysis
 
Meet and Confer 
            
Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), and section 435.5, subdivision (a),
require meeting and conferring “in person or by telephone.” On October 8,
2024, TVBD’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter regarding the issues in the
Complaint subject to demurrer. (Allen-Blaine Decl., ¶ 2.) On October 16 and 18,
2024, the parties met and conferred via telephone regarding the Complaint. (Id.
at ¶ 5.) Plaintiff opposed amending the Complaint, and this Demurrer followed. (Id.
at ¶ 6.) The Court finds the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
Standard for Ruling on
Demurrer
 
            As
a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court
assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
  
Where a demurrer
is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015)
244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969)
70 Cal.2d 240, 245) 
 
Second Cause of Action for
Premises Liability 
 
TVBD demurs to
the second cause of action for premises liability on the grounds that it does
not plead facts sufficient to state a claim. First, TVBD argues that the
Complaint pleads no facts identifying a dangerous condition—it is unclear
whether the dangerous condition is the forklift itself or the risk of being
inside a salvaged vehicle.  TVBD further argues
Plaintiff was sitting inside a scrap vehicle, which is not a public walkway,
and thus it had no duty to warn Plaintiff of any dangerous condition. Second, the
Complaint also pleads no facts to identify how TVBD, as the owner of property
rented to EPIC, had any knowledge of the unidentified dangerous condition. Defendant
also argues that, because the Complaint does not specify the “dangerous
condition,” that there is no way to determine whether TVBD had constructive
knowledge of the condition. Lastly, the Complaint pleads no facts to show how
TVBD, as property owner that rents to a vehicle salvage yard company, breached
a duty regarding this condition that then caused Plaintiff’s injury.
 
Plaintiff argues
that the Complaint sufficiently alleges that the dangerous condition is
unambiguous—Defendant did not take steps to maintain precautionary measures
while operating heavy machinery. Plaintiff argues he was walking around the
scrap vehicle but that a portion of his body was in the vehicle when it was
lifted. Plaintiff argues that the public could not appreciate the risk of the
forklift’s diameter and that Defendant, with its superior knowledge, should
have had precautionary measures in place. Plaintiff further argues TVBD had constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition and controlled the property through Defendant
Torgom Abramian (named as Doe 2). Plaintiff suggests Abramian is the owner of
TVBD. In support, Plaintiff references a claim filed with the California Labor
Commission in which it is established via the agency’s findings that Defendant
Abramian is the sole operator of TVBD. (Opp., Exh. 4.) Lastly, Plaintiff argues
that the Complaint alleges facts to establish breach and causation. 
 
In reply, TVBD argues
that Plaintiff cannot incorporate by reference exhibits in its opposition to
establish allegations outside of the Complaint. TVBD argues that the Complaint
does not plead facts establishing that TVBD had control over the Junkyard and
its operations. Lastly, TVBD argues that it is still unclear from the Complaint
and Opposition how Plaintiff was both inside the scrapped vehicle and in a
public pathway.
 
“The elements of
a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) The Court address each element of premises liability
in turn.
 
Damages
 
            The
parties do not dispute that the Complaint sufficiently alleges damages. The
Court finds damages are sufficiently alleged in paragraphs 37 to 42 of the
Complaint. 
 
Duty
 
            The
Court finds that the Complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant’s duty of care.
The Complaint alleges the following:
 
“34.     Defendants, as the owner and possessor of
the Private Property and the Junkyard located thereon, were under a duty to
exercise ordinary care in the use or maintenance of the premises in order to
avoid exposing patrons of the Junkyard to unreasonable risk of harm.” 
 
(Compl., ¶ 34.)
 
            The parties dispute and conflate two
issues in relation to TVBD’s duty of care: 1) TVBD’s knowledge of the dangerous
condition and 2) TVBD’s control and management over the property. The Court
finds that the Complaint sufficiently alleges both.
 
i.                   
Knowledge
 
TVBD argues that
the Complaint fails to allege that it had actual or constructive knowledge of
the dangerous condition because it is unclear what the condition is. TVBD
argues the Complaint does not allege that TVBD knew “1) that another
Defendant’s employee was operating a forklift by a car that Plaintiff was
either ambulating toward or also inside of or 2) that TVBD failed to tell their
lessee that the lessee’s employee forklift driver was creating a danger to
Plaintiff.” (Mot., p. 8, lines 7-9.) TVBD cites requirement that plaintiffs
have the burden of showing an owner had actual or constructive knowledge of a
dangerous condition in sufficient time to correct it, where failure to correct
a dangerous condition is the theory of liability. (See Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206-07.) The Court notes that Plaintiff’s response
speaks to whether TVBD had control of the premises, rather than to TVBD’s
knowledge.
 
The Court finds
that the Complaint sufficiently alleges actual or constructive knowledge on
behalf of TVBD. TVBD is the owner of the property and admits it rents to EPIC, a
vehicle salvage yard business. TVBD is thus constructively on notice of
potentially dangerous conditions that may occur at a vehicle salvage yard
business. Further, the Complaint alleges the following as to TVBD’s knowledge:
 
“35.     . . .Defendants knew or should have known
in the exercise of reasonable care that forklift operations would not permit a
person to safely walk through the property. Defendants further knew or should
have known in the exercise of reasonable care that the forklift operations were
hazardous at the moment of Plaintiff’s injury due to the lack of precautionary
measures while the forklift was in operation. Defendants also knew or should
have known in the exercise of reasonable care that the state of the forklift operations
on the property represented a dangerous condition and an unreasonable risk of
harm to patrons. . .”
 
(Compl., ¶ 35.)
 
            The Court thus finds the Complaint
sufficiently alleges TVBD’s knowledge of the dangerous condition.
 
ii.                 
Control and Possession
 
There is a
related issue of control and possession that bears on TVBD’s duty to Plaintiff.
“Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the
attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)
 
TVBD argues the
Complaint fails to allege that it controlled the property as a lessor. Plaintiff
argues that TVBD controlled the property through its sole managing-member
Defendant Torgom Abramian (named as Doe 2). In support, Plaintiff references a
claim filed with the California Labor Commission in which it is established via
the agency’s findings that Defendant Abramian is the sole operator of TVBD.
(Opp., Exh. 4.) TVBD argues in reply that Plaintiff cannot incorporate by
reference exhibits in its opposition to establish allegations outside of the
Complaint.
 
The Court
initially agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff cannot introduce allegations
outside of the Complaint to oppose the Demurrer. Even if the Court takes
judicial notice of the documents attached as exhibits, the Court would not be
able to recognize the truth of the statements contained in them. Judicial
notice is limited to matters that are indisputably true. (Evid. Code, section
452(d); Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 471, 482.) The truth of the matters asserted in [court and other
official] records is not subject to judicial notice. (Arce, 181
Cal.App.4th at p.483.) Further, it is unclear how Defendant Torgom Abramian’s
alleged management of TVBD establishes that TVBD controlled the property. The
Complaint nor the opposition alleges that Defendant Torgom Abramian controlled
or managed the property. 
 
Nevertheless,
the Court finds the Complaint sufficiently alleges TVBD’s control over the
property. The Complaint alleges the following as to TVBD and EPIC’s ownership
and control: 
 
“17.     At all times mentioned herein, Defendants
owned, maintained, controlled, managed, and operated the subject Private
Property where the incident in question transpired. Defendants owned, operated,
maintained, managed, and supervised the Junkyard on the Private Property in
which various goods for sale were and are made available to patrons and members
of the public.”
 
(Compl., ¶ 17.)
 
            Such
allegation, taken as true, is all that is required of Plaintiff to meet his
burden at this stage. The Court finds that the Complaint sufficiently alleges
TVBD’s knowledge and control of the property. The Complaint, therefore, alleges
TVBD’s duty to Plaintiff. 
 
Breach and Causation
 
The Court initially
finds that the Complaint sufficiently alleges the dangerous condition that is
the subject of TVBD’s breach. The Complaint alleges the premises were dangerous
where TVBD “permitted forklift operations to exist on the property where
customers and patrons, including Plaintiff, were invited to pass. . .the state
of the forklift operations on the property represented a dangerous condition
and an unreasonable risk of harm to patrons. . .” (Compl., ¶ 35.)
            
As to the issue
of causation, Defendant and Plaintiff dispute whether Plaintiff was in a public
walkway when he was injured. Defendant argues that Plaintiff was inside a
junkyard vehicle, which is not a pathway designated for public use. Defendant
implies that the cause of Plaintiff’s injury is Plaintiff himself.  Plaintiff, in response, argues that the
forklift operations and lack of precautions were the cause of his injury. Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant assumes Plaintiff was sitting in the scrap
vehicle, but the Complaint alleges Plaintiff was “ambulating.” (Compl., ¶¶ 25,
35.) Plaintiff argues that it is possible he was walking around the vehicle
while his body was partially inside the vehicle, as the Complaint suggests. Defendant
replies that the Complaint is uncertain as to whether Plaintiff was walking in
public pathways or inside the vehicle. 
 
            The
Complaint states that “As Plaintiff was in one of the Junkyard vehicles, a
forklift operated by an EPIC employee, DOE 1, lifted the vehicle up into the
air and abruptly lowered it back into the ground, causing Plaintiff to sustain
serious injuries.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) But the Complaint later states that
Plaintiff was “ambulating” in the area operating heaving machinery. (Compl., ¶¶
25, 35.) Reading the Complaint in light most favorable to the Plaintiff, the
Court finds it is possible that Plaintiff’s body was partially in the car while
he was walking near the scrapped vehicles. Although the allegations are tenuous,
the Court finds that such uncertainty is insufficient to prove a lack of
causation. TVBD has thus failed to meet its burden. The Complaint alleges the
elements of breach and causation clearly: 
 
“36.     At the aforementioned time and place,
Defendants breached its duty of care to Plaintiff when they failed to take
steps to either make the area where Plaintiff was ambulating safe, or warn
Plaintiff of the dangerous condition, all of which caused Plaintiff to suffer
injuries and damages as hereinafter described. No “caution” tape or safety
cones were in place near the point where Plaintiff was injured, even though the
area was operating heavy machinery. No effort was made by any of the Defendants
to decrease the hazard in the area. 
 
“37.     Defendants’ failure to use ordinary care
with respect to the Junkyard caused Plaintiff to be lifted into the air and
fall on the above-mentioned date. Plaintiff suffered several injuries as a
result of these falls.”
 
(Compl., ¶¶ 36-37.)
            
            The
Court finds that the Complaint pleads sufficient facts to state a cause of
action for premises liability. The Demurrer is thus overruled.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the second cause
of action for premises liability.