 Case Number:  24AVCV00243    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs
Genea Knight and Jernea Moody (“collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint
against Defendants General Motors LLC and Does 1 through 10 alleging (1)
violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, (2) violation of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and (3) violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty
Act. 
 
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion. 
 
On November 13, 2024, Defendant
General Motors LLC filed its opposition. 
 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their reply. 
 
Trial has been set on May 2, 2025.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiffs Genea Knight and
Jernea Moody submit evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Matthew
Dobson. 
 
The Court rules as follows:
 
OVERRULED: 2-3
SUSTAINED: 1 (as to only “without
making any substantial attempts to address GM’s objections and limit the scope
of the requested testimony”), 4
 
 
Analysis
 
Standard for Motion to Compel
Deposition (PMQ)
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action. The person deposed may be a natural person . . . [or] an
organization such as a public or private corporation.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.010.) “The service of a deposition notice . . . is effective to require
any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce
any document . . . [or] electronically stored information.” (Id. §
2025.280(a).) 
 
“It is established that a
litigant has the right to take a proper deposition, and to receive responsive
answers to proper questions . . . for the purposes of discovery or for use as
evidence, or for both purposes.” (Beverly Hills Nat’l Bank & Tr. Co. v.
Super. Ct. (1961) 195 Cal.App.2d 861, 864–65 (citing I.E.S. Corp. v.
Super. Ct. (1955) 44 Cal.2d 559 and Tatkin v. Super. Ct. (1958) 160
Cal.App.2d 745).) “The statute authorizing the taking of depositions to be used
in pending trials should be liberally construed to the end that a litigant in a
pending action may be afforded a reasonable opportunity to procure available
testimony in support of his cause.” (Moran v. Super. Ct. (1940) 38
Cal.App.2d 328, 334.) In keeping with this liberal tradition, Plaintiffs are
entitled to testimony and documents that are reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence about all of the issues in this case.
Indeed, “[f]or discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement. . . .These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery, and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases.” (Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency, Inc. (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
deposition testimony of GM’s PMQ is fundamental to Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly Act
claims. Plaintiffs further argue that they have good cause to seek the
discovery information because the seven categories of testimony and ten
document requests go to the essential elements of Plaintiffs’ express warranty
and damages claims. Plaintiffs further request sanctions in the amount of
$3,000.00. 
 
In opposition, GM argues that
Plaintiffs’ motion should be denied for failure to meet and confer in good
faith. Moreover, GM argues that Plaintiffs seek irrelevant testimony because
Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently explain how or why the requested testimony is
discoverable, let alone so essential to their claims or GM’s defenses that GM
should be compelled to provide it. GM also argues that it agreed to produce a
witness to testify about repairs made to Plaintiffs’ vehicle, communications,
and the reasons that GM did not repurchase Plaintiffs’ vehicle and thus the request
for sanctions is groundless.  
 
In reply, Plaintiffs argue that
they attempted to meet and confer on six separate occasions, to no avail.
Moreover, they met and conferred during an IDC. Additionally, Plaintiffs set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying their discovery requests.
For instance, matter nos. 3 and 7, refer to the subject vehicle’s defects,
warranty nonconformities, and repair history which are relevant to Song Beverly
claims. Also, questions related to GM’s procedure to determine whether
Plaintiffs’ vehicle qualified for a repurchase prior to filing suit (Matter
Nos. 1, 2, and 5) are relevant to Plaintiffs’ civil penalty claims. Plaintiffs
properly seek discovery regarding GM’s lemon law policies and procedures. GM’s
policies and procedures are relevant to the issues related to GM’s good faith
compliance with the Act, including a breach of the express warranty and implied
warranty of merchantability. Plaintiffs further argue that GM’s trade secret
and confidentiality claims are meritless because it failed to file a privilege
log or protective order. Plaintiffs also argue that sanctions are warranted
because GM continues to ignore its discovery obligations and is substantially
prejudicing Plaintiffs’ ability to obtain necessary discovery in order to
prepare for trial and failed to show that it acted with substantial
justification or that sanctions are unjust. Plaintiffs further argue that GM
conflates claiming to agree to produce a witness to actually producing a
witness. Plaintiffs first noticed GM’s deposition in April of 2024. In the
seven months since that first notice, GM has not offered a single date for its
deposition.
 
The Court grants the Motion because in
accordance with CCP § 2025.450 and CCP § 2025.230, a deposition
notice was properly served, the deposition was for June 11, 2024, and Defendant
did not appear. After meet and confer efforts followed and proved unfruitful,
Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion.  
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs
served written discovery and a unilaterally scheduled Notice of Deposition of
GM’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”). (Sanchez Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 1.) GM served its
responses on April 18, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 5, Exh. 2.) On April 29, 2024,
Plaintiffs served their First Amended Notice, which no longer contained the
contested category and document request regarding GM’s lemon law buybacks of
other similar vehicles. (Id. at ¶ 8, Exh. 4.) On May 14, 2024, GM served
its responses. (Id. at ¶ 9, Exh. 5.) On May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs served
their Second Amended Notice. (Id. at ¶ 11, Exh. 7.) On May 14, 2024, GM
served its responses. (Id. at ¶ 12, Exh. 8.) On June 26, 2024,
Plaintiffs and GM participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) in
this Court. At the IDC, GM still had not provided any dates. GM also explained
that it planned to file a dispositive motion. (Id. at ¶ 14.) 
 
Meet and Confer Efforts were Sufficient 
 
Defendant
correctly contends that under both CCP §§ 2025.450 and 2025.480 meet and confer
is required. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were
insufficient. The Court disagrees.  
 
Plaintiff
details their efforts in the Declaration of Scott A. Sanchez (Sanchez Decl.)
which notes that after Defendant’s objections were served, Plaintiff sent a
detailed meet and confer letter addressing deficiencies in Defendant’s
objections. (Sanchez Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs requested deposition
dates and offered to withdraw a contested category of other buybacks and the
related document request. (Id.) Plaintiffs also proposed a protective
order to cover the production of GM’s lemon law policy and procedure manual. (Id.)
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs served their 1st Amended Notice, which no longer
contained the contested category and document request regarding GM’s lemon law
buybacks of other similar vehicles. (Id. at ¶ 8.) On May 16, 2024,
Plaintiffs called GM to meet and confer to no avail. (Id. at ¶ 10.) On
May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs served their Second Amended Notice. On June 7, 2024,
Plaintiffs called GM to meet and confer. GM did not answer, so Plaintiffs left
a voicemail message. Plaintiffs then sent GM a detailed correspondence
requesting deposition dates, reminding it of their concession in withdrawing
the contested category, proposing a protective order, and proposing a Zoom
meeting to discuss any other issues. Again, GM did not respond. (Id. at
¶ 13.) On June 26, 2024, Plaintiffs and GM participated in an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) in this Court. (Id. at ¶ 14.) Defendant fails to demonstrate why
these meet and confer efforts were insufficient.  
 
The Testimony Sought is Relevant 
 
Defendant’s next contention is that the
testimony sought via the Deposition Notice is irrelevant. The Deposition Notice
requests testimony on the following four categories, and requests that
documents be produced on six more: 
 
Here, the categories of testimony
requested include: (1) why GM did not repurchase the vehicle pursuant to the
lemon law pre-suit; (2) questions about the service, repair and communication
history related to the vehicle and Plaintiff; (3) questions relating to GM’s
investigation of the service history; and (4) questions about the warranty
nonconformities of which Plaintiffs complain. The document requests seek: (1)
documents evidencing repairs to the vehicle; (2) photographs or videos GM may
have of the vehicle; (3) communications not involving attorneys about the
vehicle or Plaintiffs; (4) GM’s customer service file; (5) the recalls and
technical bulletins that apply to Plaintiffs’ vehicle; (6) GM’s and its
dealers’/customer service representatives’ lemon law policies and procedures;
and (7) copies of the documents GM relied on when it chose not to repurchase
the vehicle pre-litigation. 
 
As to the matters for examination,
Defendant objects to each matter with similar objections, arguing that either
the terms are vague and ambiguous, or that the category is overbroad, unduly
burdensome, or oppressive. First, for all matters of examination, the
objections are unclear as in the concurrently filed Separate Statement states “GM
already offer[ed] to produce a PMQ on the Categories for Examination and
producing a plethora of responsive documents) (Separate Statement, 5:6-7.)  
 
Defendant notes that the dispute lies in
Defendant’s internal operations, policies, and procedures. Defendant argues
that these materials will provide little benefit to Plaintiff and that
attempting to discover these internal operations, policies, and procedures is
bad faith discovery tactics and an attempt at discovering privileged or
proprietary information. The Court disagrees for two main reasons.  
 
First, although discovery is not
limitless, it is broad. As it pertains to relevance, “…any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(CCP § 2017.010). “A trial court must be mindful of the Legislature's
preference for discovery over trial by surprise, must construe the facts before
it liberally in favor of discovery…” (Williams v. Sup.Ct. (Marshalls of CA,
LLC) (2017) 220 Cal.Rptr.3d 472, 479-480).      
 
Here, Plaintiff is requesting the PMK to
speak on whether the Subject Vehicle should have been repurchased. This is
relevant because one of the elements of a prima facie case under Song-Beverly
is that the Defendant did not promptly repair or repurchase the vehicle. (Oregel
v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101; Also see CA CIVIL §
1793.2.)  Plaintiff’s intent here is clear, to find out why that did not
happen. The same principle can be applied to the second matter for examination,
a history of service and repair attempts will show what repairs if any were
attempted. Finally, both (1) policies and procedures for determining whether a
vehicle qualifies for a repurchase or replacement and (2) training for
evaluating a repurchase request will assist in Plaintiff understanding what
violations, if any, occurred during the process.   
 
Plaintiff Does Not Seek Trade Secret Material 
 
The second reason the Court disagrees with the contention
that Plaintiff is engaging in bad faith discovery is that a protective order is
an effective tool well within Defendant’s reach. Defendant argues extensively
that if discovery is permitted into the categories of examination, that trade
secret material will have to be produced. The Court finds this assertion
without merit. Plaintiff is not seeking information about how the Subject
Vehicle is conceived, created, or even manufactured. Plaintiff is seeking
policies related to processes surrounding the situation when a vehicle does not
conform to the warranty. Additionally, if Defendant fears trade secrets may be
revealed, it is their burden to show good cause in seeking a protective order.
(Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 318.)  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Deposition Attendance of a Person Most Qualified is GRANTED.
 
Request for
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs seek sanctions in the amount of $3,000.00 for
Defendant’s misuse of discovery. Defendant argues that sanctions are meritless
because they already agreed to providing the Person Most Qualified and the
objections were appropriate. The Court disagrees with Defendant. 
 
Sanctions are warranted as the Motion is granted and GM
failed to show substantial justification in not providing the Person Most
Qualified.
 
 Plaintiffs’ counsel
provides the following calculations: 
 
·        
Counsel’s hourly rate
is $375.00 
·        
Counsel spent 5 hours
drafting this Motion and related documents
and meeting and conferring about this issue.
·        
Counsel
anticipated spending 3 hours reviewing opposition papers and drafting reply
papers, and attending
the hearing on this matter 
 
Although sanctions are warranted, the amount sought is excessive as
this is a simple discovery motion. Thus, sanctions
are imposed on Defendant and awarded to Plaintiff in the amount of $937.50 for
two and half hours drafting the motion, preparing a reply, and attending the
hearing. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance of a Person Most Qualified
and Request for Sanctions is GRANTED. Sanctions are imposed on
Defendant and awarded to Plaintiff in the amount of $937.50.