 Case Number:  24AVCV00335    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff
Sagnik Mahata (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Jaime Allen
Weitz (“Defendant”) alleging intentional infliction of emotional distress and
intentional tort. Plaintiff now alleges that Defendant is evading service and
therefore has been unable to serve Defendant with the Complaint and Summons. On
the same day, Plaintiff filed a request to waive Court fees and the Court
granted the fee waiver. 
 
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff in
pro per filed the Motion for Alternate Service. 
 
On June 11, 2024, the Court
denied the initial Motion for Alternate Service. 
 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the declaration of process server. 
 
On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a due diligence declaration. 
 
As of November 20, 2024, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court
issue an order directing service of the documents by posting at the location
listed below Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles 42011 4th
Street West Lancaster California 93534. 
 
As a preliminary matter, the
Court notes Plaintiff fails to cite to any legal authority. “Pro per
litigants are held to the same standards as attorneys.” (Kobayashi v.
Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.) “[M]ere
self-representation is not a ground for exceptionally lenient treatment. Except
when a particular rule provides otherwise, the rules of civil procedure must
apply equally to parties represented by counsel and those who forgo attorney
representation. … A doctrine generally requiring or permitting exceptional
treatment of parties who represent themselves would lead to a quagmire in the
trial courts, and would be unfair to the other parties to litigation.” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 984–985, citation omitted.) 
 
Service of summons is generally effected
via personal service, substituted service including first-class mailing, mail
service with acknowledgment of receipt, and publication, among others methods.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 415.10-415.95.) 
 
Where no provision is made in
this chapter or other law for the service of summons, the court in which the
action is pending may direct that summons be served in a manner which is
reasonably calculated to give actual notice to the party to be served and that
proof of such service be made as prescribed by the court. (Code of Civil
Procedure § 413.30.) 
 
Here, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s fee waiver on October 22, 2024. Plaintiff further provided the
declaration of the registered process server who declares, “I have previously
served this defendant, so she is aware of who I am. She has evaded me in the
past, and even driven away from me as I was walking up to her car to serve her
. . . she is once again evading service, refusing to open the door when she is
home. Her car is there, as is another vehicle. I can hear talking, tv’s, etc. .
.” (Gelt Decl. at p.1.) The process server listed four attempts (July 19-22) at
different times and dates at 42138 Madison Ct, Lancaster CA 93536 to no avail.
(Id.) Plaintiff also provided the process server’s declaration regarding
diligence where she listed four other attempts from August to September, three
of which were at Defendant’s home and a fourth in Defendant’s workplace. (Decl.
of Diligence at p. 1.) The process server declares under perjury that although
nobody answered the door, there were noises and lights on inside home while Defendant’s
vehicle was present. Moreover, the process server was not allowed inside
Defendant’s workplace. Therefore, the evidence suggests that Defendant is
evading service. 
 
The Court notes Plaintiff has
provided sufficient evidence showing due diligence because service has been
attempted about seven times on different dates and times. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion for Alternate Service. 