  Case Number:  21STCV10112    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a medical malpractice
action. Plaintiff Saundra Putziger (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was suffering
from cervical pain as a result of a car collision. Beginning in or about March
2, 2020, Plaintiff became the patient of Brian Lai, M.D. (“Dr. Lai”) to treat
that pain. On March 5, 2020, Dr. Lai administered an epidural injection on
Plaintiff, which resulted in severe and permanent injuries to her, including
paralysis, all of which are the subject of the Complaint. At all relevant
times, Dr. Lai was an employee or contractor of Defendant Advanced Pain Medical
Group, Inc. (“APMG”), and Defendant Shira Amor Bizaoui (“Bizaoui”) was an
employee of Defendant Antelope Valley Specialty Surgical Center, LLC (“AVSSC”).
Bizaoui acted as a California-certified registered nurse anesthetist for the
epidural injection. 
 
On March 15, 2021, Plaintiff
filed her operative Complaint asserting one cause of action for medical
malpractice. 
 
On April 22, 2021, Bizaoui filed
her Answer. 
 
On May 20, 2021, Dr. Lai filed
his Answer. 
 
On June 24, 2021, APMG filed its
Answer. 
 
On November 23, 2022, Bizaoui
filed her Motion for Summary Judgment, which Plaintiff opposed. 
 
On February 8, 2023, the case was
transferred and reassigned to this Court. 
On July 18, 2023, the Court
denied Bizaoui’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motions for terminating, issue, and/or evidentiary sanctions
against AVSSC and Dr. Lai. 
 
On November 13, 2024, Dr. Lai
filed his opposition. AVSSC and APMG filed their opposition to the motion
directed at AVSSC. 
 
On November 14, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her reply to the AVSSC-APMG opposition. 
 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her reply to Dr. Lai’s opposition. 
 
Jury trial is set for February
14, 2025. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Imposing Issue, Evidentiary,
and Terminating Sanctions
–  “Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ (d) Failing to respond or to submit
to an authorized method of discovery. ¶ …. ¶ …. ¶ (g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(a)(1).)
 
If a
party engages in the misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose
issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b) [“The court may impose an issue
sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the
action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses”]; subd. (c) [“The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence”]; & subd. (d) [“The court may impose a terminating
sanction by one of the following orders: ¶ (1) An order striking out the pleadings or
parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process. ¶ (2)
An order staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery
is obeyed. ¶ (3)
An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. ¶ (4) An order rendering a judgment by
default against that party”].)
 
However, “absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information [“ESI”] that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as the
result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(f)
[“Section 2023.030(f)”]; Victor Valley Union High School District v.
Superior Court of San Bernardino County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1133 (“Victor
Valley”) [referring to Section 2023.030(f) as a “safe-harbor provision”].)
 
In addition, “discovery statutes evince an incremental
approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending
with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) 
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v.
Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390 (“Los Defensores”).)
 
“‘But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].) “The trial court
may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering [1] the
totality of the circumstances: [2] [the] conduct of the party to determine if
the actions were willful; [3] the detriment to the propounding party; and [4]
the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Ibid.)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – As an
initial matter, since the two motions make the same arguments, the Court will
consider them together while keeping in mind that AVSSC and Dr. Lai are
represented by different counsel and filed oppositions making slightly
different arguments. 
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
imposing issue, evidentiary, or terminating sanctions against Defendants AVSSC
and Dr. Lai, arguing that the defendants failed to save or preserve (1)
fluoroscopic and (2) contralateral oblique images of Plaintiff. 
 
According to Plaintiff, Dr. Lai
testified during his deposition that he takes fluoroscopic images to help guide
the placement of the epidural needle and catheter, and the contralateral
oblique images to show the depth of the epidural needle and whether the needle
is in the proper place. Dr. Lai also testified that he does not know where
those photos are. 
 
Plaintiff suggests that the
images are relevant because (1) she is alleging that Dr. Lai committed
malpractice when he injected the epidural directly into her spinal cord, and
(2) the images show the epidural needle and catheter in her spinal cord. 
 
According to Plaintiff, AVSSC and
Dr. Lai must have intentionally destroyed, or negligently lost those images for
the following reasons. 
 
First, there was no doubt that
the defendants knew something went wrong during Plaintiff’s epidural procedure.
Specifically, Dr. Lai’s own notes showed that Plaintiff required ventilation
support, she was paralyzed, and had a palsy. Dr. Lai even called an ambulance
after the incident, and he expressed concern in text messages with Defendant
Bizaoui, who was working with him that day. 
 
Second, it is beyond doubt that
the defendants had a record of those images because AVSSC’s PMQ, Rebecca
Riedel, testified that she audited Plaintiff’s medical records the day after
the epidural and found that the fluoroscopic images were already in the
patient’s chart. Moreover, witness Tommy Nessan (“Nessan”) testified that he
was instructed about six (6) months after the incident to look for more images.
Nessan apparently found more images, and even instructed a medical assistant to
print them out. 
 
Third, on October 2, 2020,
Plaintiff sent the defendants an intent to sue letter, which should have
indicated to the defendants that they must save all potential evidence. 
 
For those reasons, Plaintiff asks
the Court to impose terminating sanctions on AVSSC and Dr. Lai by striking
Defendants’ Answer and affirmative defenses. Alternatively, she asks the Court
to impose issue sanctions (e.g., find as established the fact that the
defendants breached their duty to Plaintiff resulting in Plaintiff’s injuries)
or evidentiary sanctions (e.g., preclude the defendants from offering any
evidence, argument, or examination stating that they were not negligent). 
 
In its opposition, AVSSC argues
that Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective because it is not based on any
failure to obey a discovery court order and Plaintiff has failed to state the
legal authority she is relying on to bring the motion. Dr. Lai also makes the
latter procedural argument. (Dr. Lai’s Opposition, pp. 9:24-10:7.)
 
The Court disagrees the instant
motions needed to be based on underlying discovery orders. As stated under the
Legal Standard section of this ruling, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010
allows a Court to impose issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions for
misuse of the discovery process. According to the California Supreme Court,
“intentional spoliation [of evidence] ‘[is] … a misuse of discovery within the
meaning’ of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 2023.010.” (City of Los
Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP (2024) 17 Cal.5th 46, 71; see also Victor
Valley Union High School District v. Superior Court of San Bernardino County
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1139 (“Victor Valley”) [“Section 2023.030
provides that a trial court may impose monetary and/or nonmonetary sanctions on
a party or the party's attorney for ‘misuse of the discovery process.’
[Footnote omitted.] ‘Among other forms of sanctions, the court may “impose an
issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.”
([§ 2023.030], subd. (b).) The court may also prohibit the party from
introducing designated matters in evidence. (Id., subd. (c).)’ [Citations.]
And, in extreme cases, the trial court may issue terminating or contempt
sanctions. (§ 2023.030, subds. (d), (e).) ¶ One serious form of discovery abuse is the spoliation of
evidence, which is defined as the destruction or alteration of relevant
evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for another party’s use in pending
or future litigation” (emphasis added)].) 
 
Given the above case law, the
Court also finds AVSSC’s other procedural arguments (e.g., that Plaintiff’s
motion omits the denial of their ex parte motion to compel) unpersuasive. 
 
As for the defendants’ argument
that Plaintiff failed to cite the applicable legal authority, the Court has not
found (and the defendants have not cited) any law holding the motions must be
denied because of that defect. 
 
On the merits, AVSSC argues that sanctions
are not warranted for the following reasons. 
 
First, all of the images that
ever existed were produced early in the case. Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument
that Nessan “found more images” on the fluoroscopic machine and that he was
instructed to “print more images,” Nessan testified that when he looked at the
images on the machine, he found only two images. Those two images have already
been produced in this litigation. Plaintiff has failed to prove there were
other images and that the defendants willfully destroyed those images.
 
Second, the conduct at issue in
the motion is not sanctionable because (1) the fluoroscopic machine has limited
space and will automatically delete the oldest images as new images are taken,
(2) because of this, only the saved images are accessible after the procedure,
which are found in the patient’s electronic medical chart, and (3) the
discovery of those unsaved ESI images falls under the safe-harbor statute,
Section 2023.030(f)
(see above), because they were overwritten as a result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system. 
 
In his opposition, Dr. Lai argues that
it would have been impossible for him to intentionally destroy evidence in
light of this litigation because the litigation commenced after he had already
stopped working for APMG. Dr. Lai
had stopped working for APMG in May
2020, two months after the procedure and five months before Plaintiff sent the
defendants her intent to sue notice. Therefore, without any indication of a
pending lawsuit, Dr. Lai had no reason to destroy evidence. Moreover, once he
left that employment, he did not have the means to either destroy or preserve
evidence. 
 
Like AVSSC, Dr. Lai also argues that
there were only two images that were saved from Plaintiff’s procedure, and
those images have already been produced. 
 
Further, according to Dr. Lai, Nessan
testified that the doctor “[took] photos during the procedure by tapping a foot
petal and then [instructing] Mr. Nessan on what specific images to save [citations].
The images Mr. Nessan [was] instructed to save [were] then saved and printed by
Mr. Nessan and put in the patient’s paper chart by either Mr. Nessan or a nurse
[citations]. According to Advanced Pain’s Director of Nursing, Rebecca Riedel,
once the paper chart, including the saved/printed images, is scanned into the
patient’s electronic medical record, the paper chart, including the printed
images, is destroyed, per the facility’s protocol [citation]. …. [Citation.] ….
Not all fluoroscopic images ‘taken’ during a procedure are ‘saved’ during the
procedure, as Mr. Nessan testified. Additionally, Dr. Lai testified that he ‘thought
every picture that [he] asked to be saved would end up in the medical records.’
[Citation.]” (Dr. Lai’s Opposition, pp. 5:22-6:10.) 
 
As stated above, “[s]poliation refers
to the destruction or material alteration of evidence or to the failure to
preserve property for another’s use as evidence in pending or reasonably
foreseeable litigation.” (Victor Valley, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1143 [italics removed].) 
 
“‘“The mere existence of a dispute
does not necessarily mean that parties should reasonably anticipate litigation.”
[Citations.] Instead, the duty seems to begin “somewhere between knowledge of
the dispute and direct, specific threats of litigation.”’ [Citation.]” (Victor
Valley, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 1153.) 
 
Stated differently, “‘a party’s duty
to preserve arises when it has notice that the documents might be relevant to a
reasonably-defined future litigation.’” (Victor Valley, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 1153.) 
 
“‘Ultimately, the court’s decision as
to when a party was on notice must be guided by the particular facts of each
case.’ [Citation.]” (Victor Valley, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
1153.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to prove
that AVSSC and Dr. Lai failed to preserve some images despite pending or reasonably
foreseeable litigation. Plaintiff argues in its reply that there is simply no
good reason why Dr. Lai could not have asked Nessan to make sure all
fluoroscopy images were saved after sending Plaintiff to the hospital.
However, Plaintiff has not proven that at each point during the procedure and
at each time Dr. Lai tapped the machine to take a photo, he had reason to
believe that litigation was foreseeable. There is no evidence of direct,
specific threats of litigation each time he took a photo and decided not to
save it. (Victor, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 1138 [“The duty to
preserve evidence arises when the party in possession and/or control of the
electronically stored information was objectively aware the evidence was
relevant to reasonably foreseeable future litigation, meaning the future
litigation was probable or likely to arise from an event, and not merely when
litigation was a remote possibility].)
 
The Court also cannot impose sanctions
based on AVSSC’s and Dr. Lai’s failure to preserve the unsaved fluoroscopic
images especially when there is no evidence that the defendants had a
pre-existing duty (statutory or otherwise) to preserve that ESI. (Victor,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 1140 [“The
safe-harbor provision of section 2023.030(f) specifically addresses when a
trial court is authorized to impose sanctions for the spoliation of … [ESI]. ‘Notwithstanding
subdivision (a), or any other section of this title, absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney
of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has
been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as the result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system.’ (§ 2023.030(f)(1).) Finally,
section 2023.030(f)(2) provides: ‘This subdivision shall not be construed to
alter any obligation to preserve discoverable information’].)
 
Therefore, since Plaintiff has failed
to prove spoliation, the Court denies both motions in their entirety.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Saundra Putziger’s
Motion for Terminating, Issue, and/or Evidentiary Sanctions Against Defendant
Antelope Valley Specialty Surgical Center, LLC for Willful Suppression of
Evidence and/or Spoilation of Evidence is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff Saundra Putziger’s
Motion for Terminating, Issue, and/or Evidentiary Sanctions Against Defendant
Brian Lai, M.D. for Willful Suppression of Evidence and/or Spoilation of
Evidence is DENIED.