 Case Number:  22AVCV00841    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff
Luz Reyes Garcia (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about April 18, 2022, she purchased
a 2022 GMC Sierra 1500 (“Vehicle”) manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant
General Motors, LLC (“Defendant” or “GM”). As part of that purchase, Plaintiff
received an express warranty. During the warranty period, the Vehicle contained
and developed various defects, including a defective body system, electrical
system, and engine. Plaintiff presented the Vehicle to GM and its
representatives for service or repair. However, GM and its representatives were
unable and/or failed to service the Vehicle within a reasonable number of
attempts. 
 
On October 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the operative Complaint against GM and Does 1 through 50, inclusive,
asserting the following causes of action: (1) violation of subdivision (d) of
Civil Code section 1793.2; (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code
section 1793.2; (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section
1793.2; (4) breach of express written warranty; and (5) breach of the implied
warranty of merchantability. 
 
On November 30, 2022, GM filed
its Answer. 
 
On January 5, 2024, the Court
entered as an order the parties’ Stipulation and Protective Order –
Confidential Designation Only. 
 
On January 11, 2024, the Court
entered as an order the parties’ Joint Stipulation to Continue Trial. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Notice of Informal Discovery Conference. 
 
On April 8, 2024, GM filed a
Joint Informal Discovery Conference Statement regarding Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One (“RFP”), Nos. 7, 16-19, 21, 34, 38, 41-42, and
51. 
On April 17, 2024, the Court held
the Informal Discovery Conference regarding the RFPs and advised that counsel
may set a Motion to Compel hearing for June 11, 2024. 
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to compel GM’s responses to RFP Nos. 7, 10[1], 16-19,
21, 34, 38, 41-42, and 51. The motion was initially set for hearing on June 11,
2024. 
 
On May 29, 2024, GM filed its
opposition to the motion. 
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
her reply. 
 
On June 11, 2024, the Court held
a hearing on the motion. The Court ordered counsel to look at the addendum and
case management order on the Court’s website, Defendant to file a supplemental
document by July 19, 2024, and Plaintiff to respond to that supplement by July
26, 2024. The Court continued the hearing to July 30, 2024. 
 
On July 24, 2024, GM filed its
supplemental declaration. 
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a supplemental declaration in response to GM’s supplemental declaration. 
 
On July 30, 2024, the Court held
a hearing on the motion, heard oral argument, conferred with counsel, continued
the hearing to September 17, 2024, and ordered the parties to meet and confer
before that hearing. 
 
On September 17, 2024, the Court
held a hearing on the motion. Plaintiff provided an update regarding the status
of the motion. The Court continued the hearing to its current date on November
26, 2024, and ordered the parties to file a joint supplemental declaration
regarding what issues remain outstanding in the motion before the next hearing.

 
On November 20, 2024, the parties
filed a Joint Declaration re Plaintiff’s Request Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
-----
 
Analysis
 
Standard for Compelling Further Responses to
Requests for Production –
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title,
any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿For
discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court¿(2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A motion to compel further responses to a
demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2031.310(a).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motion must be given within 45
days of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or
before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A motion to compel further production must
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the inspection demand. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.310(b)(1).) In¿Digital
Music News LLC v Superior Court¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the
Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there¿is¿“a disputed fact that is
of consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to
prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove
or disprove the fact.”¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
If the moving party has shown good cause for
the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections. (Kirkland v.¿Sup. Ct¿(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92,
98.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
“The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ.¿Proc. §
2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party’s subjective
intent to create burden, or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
actually respond. (See¿West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court In and For Los Angeles County¿(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However,
where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face, no such evidence is
necessary. (See¿Obregon v. Superior Court¿(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
424, 431.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Trial courts are vested with “wide
discretion” to allow or prohibit discovery. (Williams v. Superior Court¿(2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 540.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----¿¿ 
 
Meet and Confer Requirement¿– A motion compelling further responses to
RFPs must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Declaration of Iraida Gonzalez, filed May 15,
2024, ¶¶ 13-17 [testifying that the parties met and conferred and participated
in the IDC, but could not resolve the issues in the motion].)
 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – By
way of background, Plaintiff’s moving papers sought an order compelling GM to
produce the following documents. 
 
·        
RFP No. 7: The Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manual published by YOU and provided to YOUR authorized repair
facility(s), within the state of California, from 2022 to the present. 
·        
RFP No. 10: A copy of the Workshop
Manual or Electronic Service Manual specifying diagnosis and repair
procedures for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
·        
RFP No. 16: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any internal analysis or investigation by YOU or
on YOUR behalf regarding the ENGINE DEFECT AND ELECTRICAL DEFECT in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.[2]

·        
RFP No. 17: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any communications YOU have had regarding ENGINE
DEFECT AND ELECTRICAL DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
·        
RFP No. 18: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning
or relating to any decision to issue any notices, letters, campaigns,
warranty extensions, technical service bulletins and recalls concerning the
ENGINE DEFECT AND ELECTRICAL DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
·        
RFP No. 19: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and warranty claims
related to ENGINE DEFECT, including but not limited to any databases in
YOUR possession with information from dealers, service departments, parts
departments, or warranty departments, and all documents concerning YOUR
response to each complaint, claim or reported failure.
·        
RFP No. 21: All DOCUMENTS, including but
not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails,
concerning or relating to any fixes for ENGINE DEFECT AND ELECTRICAL DEFECT
in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
·        
RFP No. 34: All DOCUMENTS that YOU use
to evaluate consumers’ requests for repurchases pursuant to the Song
Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
·        
RFP No. 38: All DOCUMENTS issued
by YOU or on YOUR behalf which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to
policies, procedures, and/or instructions since 2015 that YOUR employees and
agents should follow when evaluating a customer request for a refund of the
price paid for a vehicle or replacement of a new motor vehicle
manufactured or distributed by YOU.
·        
RFP No. 41: All Vehicle Warranty
History Reports for the repurchased or replaced vehicles due to the ENGINE
DEFECT AND ELECTRICAL DEFECT for the same make, model and year as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
·        
RFP No. 42: All DOCUMENTS which evidence YOUR
organizational charts of people within YOUR customer service call center or
prelitigation department
·        
RFP No. 51: All DOCUMENTS, including
electronically stored information and electronic mails, regarding any communications
between YOU and any government agency or entity (e.g. National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration (‘NHTSA’)) regarding the ENGINE DEFECT AND
ELECTRICAL DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
 
(Separate Statement, filed May
15, 2024, pp. 2-109 [underlining added].)
 
Plaintiff now argues that only
the following categories of documents remain at issue. 
 
Category A.     
Policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer
requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to lemon law claims, including
ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (See Joint
Declaration, pp. 2:11-3:3 [seeking documents requested for in RFP Nos. 34
and 38].) 
 
Category B.      
List or compilation of customer complaints (in GM’s
electronically stored information database) regarding defects that are
substantially similar[3]
to the defects alleged by Plaintiff and for the same year, make, and model as
the Vehicle. (Joint Declaration, p. 3:4-9 [seeking documents requested in RFP
No. 19].)
 
Category C.      
Technical Service Bulletins (TSB) for vehicles
purchased or leased in California for the same year, make, and model as the Vehicle.
(Joint Declaration, p. 3:10-13 [requesting documents referred to in RFP No.
18].)
 
Category D.     
Copies
of any repair instruction, bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure
identified in any of the repair order/invoice records for the subject vehicle.
(Joint Declaration, p. 3:13-21 [requesting documents identified in this Court’s
Lemon Law Addendum].)
 
GM argues that it has produced
documents in response to Category A. (Joint Declaration, pp. 5:25-6:2.)
 
However, GM has not disputed
Plaintiff’s claim that the documents the defendant produced in response to
Category A “do not provide any information regarding the criteria, factors,
policies, or procedures used to evaluate repurchase demands” as RFP Nos. 34 and
38 requested. (Joint Declaration, p. 3:1-2.)
 
Therefore, the request to compel
further responses to Category A documents is GRANTED.  
 
With regard to Category B, Plaintiff
argues that “GM has provided a list of vehicles from numerous states, with
defects other than those alleged by Plaintiff and the list does not contain,
the date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location.” (Joint
Declaration, p. 3:7-9.) 
 
GM has not disputed that it can
produce a list of customer complaints regarding defects that are substantially
similar to the defects alleged by Plaintiff. The defendant has also not argued that
it is unable to supplement the list it had already produced with one that
identifies the date of the repair visit, dealership, or other reporting
location. 
 
Accordingly, the request to
compel further responses to Category B documents is GRANTED.  
 
With regard to Category C –
Technical Service Bulletins (TSB) – GM does not dispute Plaintiff’s claim that it
only produced a list of the TSBs but not the actual TSBs as requested by RFP
No. 18. (Joint Declaration, pp. 9:19-13; 4:17-18.)
 
Accordingly, the request to
compel further responses to Category C documents is GRANTED.  
 
Finally, with regard to Category D,
GM argues that it has already produced “[w]ork orders, repair orders, and
invoices (including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance,
service and repair activity concerning the subject vehicle ….” (Joint
Declaration, p. 5:11-12.)
 
However, GM does not dispute
Plaintiff’s claim that the defendant failed to produce (1) repair instructions,
bulletins, or other diagnostic/repair procedures, if any, the defendant
provided for the repair attempt on August 31, 2022, and (2) Document
Identification Number (“DOC ID: 6089907”) that the defendant allegedly
referenced in the repair attempt on July 25, 2022. 
 
Accordingly, the request to
compel the production of those documents is also GRANTED. 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff did
not request sanctions in the instant motion. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
For the reasons set forth above, Plaintiff
Luz Reyes Garcia’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One, from Defendant General Motors LLC is GRANTED IN PART and
DENIED IN PART as follows.
 
The request to compel Defendant
General Motors LLC to produce the following documents is GRANTED. 
 
·        
Policy and/or procedures used to evaluate
customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to lemon law claims,
including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
·        
A list or compilation of customer complaints in the
defendant’s electronically stored information database that are substantially
similar to the alleged defects claimed by the plaintiff, in vehicles purchased
in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
 
·        
Technical Service Bulletins (TSB) for vehicles
purchased or leased in California for the same year, make, and model as the
Vehicle.
 
·        
Repair instructions, bulletins, or other
diagnostic/repair procedures provided by the defendant for the repair attempt
on August 31, 2022. 
 
·        
Document Identification Number (‘DOC ID:
6089907’), which was referenced in the repair attempt on July 25, 2022. 
 
The request to compel further responses to all other
requests for production in Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.


