 Case Number:  24AVCV00765    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a
wrongful death action. On June 21, 2024, Plaintiffs Cataleya Inez Lopez, a
minor by and through her guardian ad litem Andrea Galvez, Nia Violet Lopez, a
minor by and through her guardian ad litem Andrea Galvez, and Noah Alexander
Gomez, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Jacqueline Gomez (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendants City of Lancaster, Monique Coreen Molina,
Gary L. Carrera, Brenda Carrera, and Does 1 to 50. On August 20, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC). Plaintiffs bring the action
on behalf of decedent Joseph Oscar Lopez’s estate (“Decedent”) as his children.
The FAC alleges Decedent died due to a collision with a vehicle driven by
Defendant Molina and owned by Defendants Gary L. Carrera and Brenda Carrera.
The FAC further alleges Defendant City of Lancaster negligently maintained the
intersection where the collision occurred—specifically, the intersection had an
unprotected left-turn signal such that drivers could not perceive approaching
vehicles. Defendant Molina allegedly made a left turn and collided into
Decedent, who was riding a motorcycle. The FAC alleges two causes of action: 1)
Dangerous Condition of Public Property and 2) Negligence – Wrongful Death and
Survivor Action. 
 
On October 21,
2024, Defendants Monique C. Molina, Brenda Carrera, and Gary L. Carrera
(“Defendants”) filed this Motion to Strike the First Amended Complaint. 
 
On November 14,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the opposition.
 
On November 19,
2024, Defendants filed the reply. 
 
Analysis
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request judicial notice be taken of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint.
The Court notes that it need not take judicial notice of the Complaint and
First Amended Complaint.
 
Standard for Ruling on
Motion to Strike
 
Code Civil Procedure
section 436 permits trial courts to strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in a pleading: 
 
 “The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
 (a)¿Strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
 (b)¿Strike out
all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 436.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a) requires the parties to meet
and confer “in person or by telephone” regarding the proposed motion to strike.
Defendants’ counsel has provided evidence that the parties met and conferred
via email since September 24, 2024, yet there is no indication that they met in
person or by telephone. (See Minasyan Decl., ¶ 2; Appendix of Exhs., Exh. C.) Defendants’
counsel made efforts to call Plaintiffs’ counsel but counsel did not respond
due to an outage with her service provider. The Court finds the meet and confer
requirement has not been met. In the interest of judicial efficiency, the Court
will assess the merits of the Motion.
 
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendants
seek to strike portions of the FAC suggesting Defendants acted intentionally,
recklessly, or carelessly. (FAC ¶¶ 32-33, 37, 40, 42-43, 47, 48(a), (b).)
Defendants also seek to strike requests for punitive damages. (FAC ¶ 47, Prayer
¶ 8.) 
 
            Defendants
argues that Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages under either the wrongful
death or survival action claim because 1) there is no felony homicide allowing
for an exception under Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (d), and 2) the FAC
fails to allege sufficient facts under the survival action claim to meet the
threshold for punitive damages. 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that there is a less strict pleading
standard for a motion to strike punitive damages. Plaintiffs argue that the FAC
sufficiently alleges Defendant Molina acted with the requisite recklessness to
warrant punitive damages. Plaintiffs argue that they are able to plead
inconsistent causes of action. Lastly, Plaintiffs argue a homicide conviction
is not a prerequisite to an award of punitive damages for wrongful death
claimants. 
 
            In
reply, Defendants note that Plaintiffs filed the opposition a day late.
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cite the same pleading standard as
Defendants—that Plaintiffs must allege facts proving malice, oppression, or
fraud under Civil Code section 3294. Plaintiffs cite cases that are unrelated
to punitive damages or have to do with the pleading standard in fraud cases.
Plaintiffs fail to identify any allegation that would support a claim for
punitive damages. Plaintiffs’ argument about inconsistent theories was not
raised by Defendant and is therefore, irrelevant. Lastly, Plaintiffs are
incorrect that neither Civil Code Section 3294(d) nor Shore v. Gurnette,
122 Cal.App.4th 166 (2004) requires a felony homicide conviction as a
prerequisite to punitive damages in a wrongful death claim.
 
            The
Court will address the merits of the punitive damages claim under wrongful
death claim and the survival action claim.
 
Wrongful Death Claim
 
            Generally,
wrongful death claimants cannot recover punitive damages, unless the death
resulted from a felony homicide claim for which defendant was convicted. (See
Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (d); Punitive Damages, Cal. Prac. Guide Pers. Inj. Ch.
3-E.) 
 
            The
Court thus finds punitive damages are unavailable for Plaintiffs’ wrongful
death claim where the death did not result from a felony homicide claim for
which defendant was convicted.
 
Survival Action Claim
 
            In
survival actions, “Punitive damages are awardable to the decedent's estate in
an action by the estate representative based on the cause of action the
decedent would have had if he or she had survived. Relatively minor
compensatory damages. . .can be the springboard for substantial punitive
damages.” (Rufo v. Simpson (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 573, 616; see also Code
Civ. Proc. § 377.34.) The Court notes that while punitive damages are allowable
in survival action, Plaintiffs must meet the pleading standard required for the
underlying negligence action.
 
“‘In order to
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the
elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section
3294.’ [Citation.]” (Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Civil Code section 3294 provides that on a
non-contract cause of action, a plaintiff may recover punitive damages when
they prove “by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) In a
negligence action, plaintiffs must allege facts in the complaint demonstrating
malice—conclusory allegations that simply characterize defendant's conduct as
“malicious” are insufficient and subject to motion to strike. (See Smith v.
Sup.Ct. (Bucher) (1992) 10 CA4th 1033, 1036, 1042 (finding, in a legal
malpractice claim, plaintiff’s conclusory allegations that attorneys' conduct
was “intentional, knowing, malicious, fraudulent, false and deceitful” and
action in “conscious and knowing disregard of the interest and rights of
plaintiff” were deficient as a matter of law to show entitlement to punitive
damages).)
            
            The
Court finds the FAC contains conclusory allegations of malice, which is
insufficient to support a punitive damages award. A complaint must plead facts,
not conclusory allegations, showing entitlement to punitive damages. Here, the
FAC fails to set forth allegations suggesting that Defendants acted
intentionally, recklessly, or with conscious disregard to Decedent’s rights or
safety when Defendant Molina collided with Decedent. Thus, the punitive damages
claim sought under the survival action is unsupported. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants the Motion to Strike portions of the FAC
suggesting Defendants acted intentionally, recklessly, or carelessly and
portions of the FAC in reference to punitive damages. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike.