  Case Number:  22STCV19207    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GRESHAM LOMBARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ALBEMARLE CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation, previously sued
  as Doe No. 12; ASHLAND OIL, INC., a Kentucky corporation, previously sued as Doe
  No. 19; BRASKEM AMERICA, INC., a Delaware corporation, previously sued as Doe
  No. 17; CHEVRON U.S.A., INC., previously and perhaps erroneously sued as
  CHEVRON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation; EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION, f/k/a MOBIL
  OIL REFINING CORPORATION a Delaware corporation; GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER
  COMPANY, an Ohio corporation, previously sued as Doe No. 15; KANEKA NORTH
  AMERICA LLC, a Texas limited liability company, previously sued as Doe No. 7;
  KERN OIL & REFINING COMPANY, a California corporation; KINDER MORGAN LIQUIDS
  TERMINALS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, previously sued as Doe
  No. 2; LUBRIZOL CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation, previously sued as Doe No.
  8; MARATHON PETROLEUM COMPANY LP, a Delaware limited partnership; PBF ENERGY
  LIMITED, a, Delaware corporation, previously sued as Doe Defendant No. 1;
  PHILLIPS 66 COMPANY, a Delaware corporation; SAN JOAQUIN REFINING COMPANY,
  INC., a California corporation; SHELL OIL PRODUCTS COMPANY LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; TOTALENERGIES PETROCHEMICALS & REFINING USA,  Delaware corporation, previously sued as Doe
  No. 9; VALERO REFINING COMPANY - CALIFORNIA, a Delaware corporation; VOPAK
  NORTH MERICA, INC., f/k/a VOPAK AMERICAS, a Texas corporation, previously
  sued as Doe No. 22; ALLWASTE, INC., a Texas corporation, doing business as
  ALLWASTE ENVIRONMENTAL; ONYX INDUSTRIAL SERVICES, INC., a corporation; PHILIP
  SERVICES CORPORATION, doing business as PHILIPS TANK CLEANING; RUSH RESOURCES,
  LLC, a Texas limited liability company, successor in interest to RUSH
  RESOURCES, INC., a Texas corporation previously sued as Doe No. 81; TIMEC
  ACQUISITIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation; TIMEC COMPANY, INC., a California
  corporation, subsidiary of TIMEC ACQUISITIONS, INC.; TIMEC SERVICES COMPANY,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; ULTRAMAR, INC., a Texas corporation, previously
  sued as Doe No. 82; WASTE MANAGEMENT LLC, a California limited liability
  company; and Doe Defendants 23-80 and 83-100,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV19207
 Hearing Date:   4/2/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Doe 7,
  Kaneka North America LLC’s Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gresham Lombard sues a
number of Defendants pursuant to a December 20, 2023, Third Amended Complaint (TAC)
alleging claims of (1) Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Failure to Warn, (3)
Strict Liability – Design Defect, and (4) Fraudulent Concealment.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. From about 1990 through the early 2000s, Plaintiff Lombard worked
at oil refineries and petrochemical plants in California, where Plaintiff performed
shutdowns and turnarounds, painting, maintenance, construction, and other work.
In doing this work, Plaintiff Lombard was exposed to crude oil, fuels, and
petroleum hydrocarbon solvents, all of which contain significant concentrations
of benzene. This exposure, in turn, caused serious injuries to Plaintiff Lombard’s
internal organs, including myelodysplastic syndrome, thus necessitating
hospitalization, surgeries, chemotherapy, and other treatments for Plaintiff Lombard,
with a bone marrow transplantation now being medically necessary as treatment.
B. Motion Before the Court
On March 1, 2024, Defendant Doe 7, Kaneka North America LLC (Kaneka) filed
a motion for determination of good faith settlement in relation to a settlement
reached between it and Plaintiff Lombard.
Kaneka’s moving papers—comprised of a notice of motion and motion and a
proposed order—attach proofs of service indicating that electronic service was
effected on March 1, 2024 on various interested parties to be named in an
attached service list, but the moving papers fail to include the referenced
service lists.
No opposition, reply, or notice of non-opposition appear in the record.
Defendant Kaneka’s motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement:
TENTATIVELY GRANTED [on condition of proof of service].
A. Legal Standard
Any
party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt is entitled to a hearing on the
issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other
claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
In
the alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties
and to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith
settlement and a proposed order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) The
application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service, with proof of service to be filed
with the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) Within 25 days of the
mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of
personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest
the good faith of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) If
none of the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the
notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,
the court may approve the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
However, this subsection does not apply to settlements in which a
confidentiality agreement has been entered into regarding the case or the terms
of the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
A
party asserting lack of good faith in settlement has the burden of proving lack
of good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) The objecting party may
carry its burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” in relation to various factors, including:
(1)
A rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; 
(2)
The amount paid in settlement; 
(3)
The allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; 
(4)
A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would if it
were found liable after a trial; 
(5)
The financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants;
and 
(6)
The existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants. 
(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500.)
A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c); Britz, Inc. v. Dow
Chemical Co. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 177, 180 (Britz) [finding a good
faith settlement determination discharges indemnity claims by other
tortfeasors, whether or not named as parties to the action, provided they were
given notice and an opportunity to be heard].)
B.
Analysis
1. Notice of Settlement, Application for
Good Faith Determination, Proposed Order, and Service
Here,
while the motion for good faith determination and its proposed order attach
proofs of service, these proofs of service do not attach a service list
clarifying the interested parties that were served. (Mot., Proof of Service;
Mot., Proposed Order, Proof of Service.) The record is thus unclear as to
whether proper service of the notice, application, and proposed order has been effected
on “all parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
While
the points and authorities argue that proper service was effected as shown by
the attached declaration from counsel and proof of service (Mot., pp. 11-12),
the declaration from counsel only relates the procedural history, settlement,
and evidentiary facts supporting a determination of good faith, while the proof
of service fails to attach the service list referenced the proof of service.
(Mot., Kaneka Decl., ¶¶ 1-19; Mot., Proof of Service; see Mot., Proposed Order,
Proof of Service.)
Therefore,
prior to determining that these mandatory statutory requirements have been
satisfied—i.e., notice with an application and proposed order plus service—the
Court must receive the service lists to confirm that service was effected on
“all parties” on March 1, 2024, via electronic service through “File N Serve,”
as shown in the proofs of service for the moving papers. (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (a)(2); see Mot., Proof of Service; Mot., Proposed Order, Proof of
Service.)
2. Required Information in Application
As
explained by the moving papers’ introduction: “The basis, terms and amount of
the settlement are as follows: Payment of $10,000.00 by Defendant no later than
30 days after full execution of the Settlement Agreement (‘Agreement’), to the
Metzger Law Group of one or more negotiable checks in the total sum of
$10,000.00, made payable to the Metzger Law Group Attorney-Client Trust
Account, and to no other persons. This condition may only be waived by
Plaintiff. The Agreement is subject to the Court approving this settlement as a
Good Faith Settlement.” (Mot., p. 4; see Mot., Sipes Decl., ¶ 15 [same
information and referencing an Exhibit D as a correct copy of the settlement agreement
but failing to attach that exhibit].)
This
mandatory statutory requirement is therefore satisfied. (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
3. Challenges by Non-Settling Defendants
Here,
no challenges to this motion were filed by the non-settling Defendants, and
more than 25 days have elapsed since the purported March 1, 2024, service.
The
Court may thus approve the settlement, provided that service is confirmed, as
discussed above in Section II.B.1. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
4. Confidentiality Agreement
Here,
the proposed settlement does not involve a completely confidential settlement
for which even the terms of the settlement cannot be disclosed. (See Section
II.B.2. discussion supra.)
This
mandatory statutory requirement is therefore satisfied. (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
5. Tech-Bilt Factors
Here,
the Court adopts the discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors in the moving
papers to further determine that no bad faith appears to arise from this
settlement. (Mot., pp. 5-8 at § II, 9-11 at § IV; Mot., Kaneka Decl., ¶¶ 1-18.)
The
Court notes that the Tech-Bilt factors are the applicable standard for
challenging the good faith of a settlement—specifically, by showing bad
faith—and, in making that showing, the burden lies with the party challenging
the determination of good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) Here,
no challenge appears in the record from any of the non-settling Defendants (see
Section II.B.3. discussion supra), thus undercutting the need for a Tech-Bilt
discussion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) However, the Court notes
that service must be confirmed prior to this determination having any effect.

6. Final Determination
While Defendant Kaneka’s motion is
facially meritorious, the Court must confirm service before making a final
determination on the good faith of the settlement reached between Defendant
Kaneka and Plaintiff Lombard. 
V. Conclusion
Defendant Doe 7, Kaneka North
America LLC’s Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination is tentatively
GRANTED on the condition of proof of proper service on all parties on March 1,
2024.
If service is shown to have been so
effected, all other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor of Defendant Kaneka North
America LLC shall be barred from any further claims against Defendant Kaneka
North America LLC for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c); Britz, supra, 73
Cal.App.4th at p. 180.) 