 Case Number:  23SMCV04596    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to quash by 601 Fremont and it is DENIED. 
 
Defendant is an LLC organized in Nevada and doing business
there.  According to the evidence in the
motion, defendant has never done any business in California and has no
meaningful contacts here.  While
plaintiff seems to assert that the court must go by the allegations in the complaint
(and the court might be misreading plaintiff’s argument), that is not the
case.  This is a speaking motion and
evidence is appropriate.  That said,
plaintiff has no real evidence of anything like minimum contacts.
 
But the whole minimum contacts issue is not really the
question here.  The contract at issue
contains a consent to jurisdiction clause. 
Of course, a defendant with no contacts with California whatsoever can
still consent to jurisdiction here, and such a consent will be binding.  (Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 218.)  That is the potential
situation here given the contract.  There
is nothing about the consent to jurisdiction clause that would make it
ineffective.  Normally, that would end the
inquiry.
 
But defendant makes a different argument.  It states that RMD, which was its manager,
lacked the authority to enter into the contract in the first place.  More specifically, defendant’s operating
agreement says that a majority of the membership is required to consent before
the entity can incur any indebtedness of more than $25,000 (with an exception
allegedly not relevant here).  Defendant,
which has since removed RMD as the manager, contends that this is such a debt
and that a majority of the membership never authorized it.  As such, defendant asserts, the contract is
invalid ab initio, and as it falls, so does the consent to jurisdiction.
 
The problem is that the case is not about the operating
agreement alone; it is about ostensible agency. 
An agent has the authority to bind the principal—at least within the
scope of the agent’s authority. 
Defendant agrees with that rule of law, but claims that RMD did not have
the authority to sign this contract on defendant’s behalf.  But authority comes in two flavors: actual and
ostensible.  (J.L. v. Children’s
Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388.)  The court will assume for purposes of this
motion that there was no actual authority. 
But there still seems to be ostensible authority.
 
Ostensible authority is authority that the agent appears
to have even if the agent does not actually have it.  Where a third party relies on the agent’s
apparent authority, the principal will be bound thereby.  But (as is usually the case in the law) there
is an exception.  A rogue agent cannot
simply assert authority and bind the principal. 
The principal must have done something to cloak the agent with apparent
authority for the doctrine to apply. 
However, if the principal has done so and a third party relies on that
apparent authority (reasonably), then the ostensible agent can bind the
principal notwithstanding the lack of actual authority.  (Van Den Eikhof v. Hocker (1978) 87
Cal.App.3d 900.)  That seems to be the
case here.
 
No one disputes that RMD was in fact defendant’s manager at
the time the contract was entered into. 
In the LLC world, the manager can be more powerful than the CEO of a
regular corporation.  The manager
generally has full apparent power to do almost anything.  Maybe not dissolving the LLC or selling it,
but there would be no reason for one contracting with the entity through the
manager to believe that the manager is otherwise limited, and there is no
assertion that plaintiff here was aware of the limitation in the Operating
Agreement.  Further, section 7.5 of the
operating agreement expressly states that third parties are entitled to rely
upon the managing member’s apparent authority to bind the company and that such
third parties need not inquire as to the manager’s authority.  By providing the manager with that cloak of
authority, the defendant did take action by which a third party could
and reasonably would rely on the manager’s authority to enter into a contract
such as the guaranty here.  In fact, given
section 7.5, even if plaintiff had been aware that a majority of members had to
approve the loan, there is no reason why plaintiff could not rely on the
manager’s authority in signing the loan to assume that such approval had been
obtained.
 
The court considered whether to continue the motion to allow
jurisdictional discovery, but decided against it.  The way this works, once jurisdiction is
challenged, it is up to the plaintiff to prove (by a preponderance of the
evidence) that there is jurisdiction. 
That was done by virtue of the consent to jurisdiction clause in the
contract.  (There is a bit of an issue as
to that.  The actual guaranty is
discussed in the papers, but is not actually before the court.  Given that everyone seems to agree that the
contract contains the consent clause, the court will assume so as well.  However, if the defense believes that the
clause is not so clear, the court will continue the matter to allow the
guaranty to be brought before the court. 
After all, plaintiff cannot rely on its allegations to defeat a motion
to quash based on lack of personal jurisdiction.  That said, it seems a waste of time if the
clause is clear and no one disputes it.) 
Once plaintiff has made out a prima facie case, it is up to the
defense to present evidence as to why that ought not carry the day.   Where the defense has called jurisdiction
into doubt, it is often the better move to allow plaintiff to take
jurisdictional discovery to be able to overcome defendant’s showing, after
which the court can weigh the evidence and reach a conclusion.  But here, defendant failed of its
showing.  Defendant never even addressed
the ostensible agency issue—which is really the only issue in the motion.  Further, the very document upon which
defendant relies—the Operating Agreement—expressly states that a third party
(such as plaintiff here) can rely on the manager’s apparent authority to enter
into contracts without inquiring further. 
Given that, even crediting all of the defendant’s evidence in full, the
motion fails.  There is no point in
jurisdictional discovery.
 
The motion is therefore DENIED.  The court will, however, STAY the action for
15 days.  If, during that time, defendant
seeks writ review, the stay will be extended until the writ is determined.  If no such review is sought, the stay will
expire of its own terms.  Of course,
defendant has the time allowed by law to seek writ review—nothing in the
foregoing is designed to limit that right. 
It is only that the stay will not remain in effect after 15 days absent
an order from the Court of Appeal.
 
The court will set a CMC for approximately 45 days
hence.  If the matter is on writ review
at that time, the CMC will be continued until the writ is resolved.