 Case Number:  SC123657    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  I The court is in receipt of the application to determine the
parameters of disgorgement (or entitlement to it) before any hearing as to the
amount.  In the alternative, Farr
requests that the matters be rescheduled due to counsel’s travel plans that
were inadvertently not disclosed at the time the hearing was set. 
 
The court is disinclined to re-jigger the order of
things.  While the court understands
defendants’ theory that more ought to be decided before hearing evidence on the
entitlement for disgorgement and potential measures of it, the court would like
to have everything before it when the decision is made.  Thus, the court would like to hear the
evidence on disgorgement as plaintiff seeks it and defendants’ response.  The court agrees, as it did before, that the
burden of proof should be discussed before the evidence because it will
determine who will introduce what.  As
the court has previously stated, it believes plaintiff has the burden of
proving revenues and defendants have the burden of proving any expenses that
must be subtracted from those revenues to determine profits, but the court will
entertain briefing on that subject and is open to persuasion as discussed at
the last hearing.
 
That said, though, the court believes that it is not
inappropriate to alter the hearing dates to allow Mr. Sargent to enjoy his
pre-planned trip.  Sometimes, especially
at the end of a long jury trial, scheduling things slip, and the court can
understand that this is one of those occasions. 
The court will discuss with counsel an appropriate schedule.  Farr proposes that the briefing on burden of
proof be done by 5 pm on 8/2/24 (simultaneous briefing).  A hearing on that subject can be set for the
week of 8/16/24 with an evidentiary hearing on another date as to the
amount.  That might work, but the court
will want to get plaintiff’s input as well.
 
Thus, the application is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN
PART.  It is GRANTED as to scheduling and
DENIED as to deciding more specifics on disgorgement as a remedy before the
evidentiary hearing.  The court believes
that it will be in the best position to adjudicate the remainder of the case if
the evidence comes in sooner rather than later, and once the evidence is in,
the court has a lot of flexibility on briefing and hearings.  