 Case Number:  23SMCV03186    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to set aside a dismissal.  Plaintiff asserts that it had sued different
defendants.  It reached an agreement with
one—Washington—and settled.  Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that she intended to dismiss Washington from the action due to
the settlement.  However, counsel instead
dismissed everyone, including the remaining defendant, Fisher.  When plaintiff discovered the error,
plaintiff sought to vacate the dismissal as to Fisher.  Plaintiff’s attempt to do so on an ex
parte basis was rejected so that
defendant could file an opposition. 
Briefing is now complete and the matter is ripe for resolution.  
 
Defendant contends
that this motion is not governed by CCP section 473(b), which allows for a
default to be vacated as a matter of right if there is an attorney declaration
of fault.  This is not a default; it is a
dismissal.  The court will assume
defendant is correct and that the court has discretion.  Defendant also argues that this was not an
error but a deliberate decision that plaintiff now regrets.  In support of that argument, defendant notes
that there was outstanding discovery at the time of the dismissal.  However, rather than respond to the discovery
Fisher had propounded (which Fisher argues would be the natural thing to do if
one thinks the case is still live as to Fisher), plaintiff just did nothing.  As a result, defendant argues, this must have
been a considered decision, not an error. 
Plaintiff states that the dismissals were essentially ministerial, and
that the firm’s staff simply closed the case automatically when the dismissal
came through even though that was a mistake. 
In essence, plaintiff’s counsel suggests that she is a busy person and
simply did not notice that there was outstanding discovery to which plaintiff
had not responded.
 
The court must
credit plaintiff here.  Given that there
was no settlement with Fisher (and Fisher does not dispute that point), the
court can see no reason why plaintiff would dismiss Fisher, and Fisher suggests
none.  This smacks much more of error
than a nefarious plot of some kind.  Nor
has Fisher articulated any prejudice other than the fact that now Fisher will
need to defend the case.  But defending
the case is not the kind of cognizable prejudice that will defeat this kind of
motion.  Fisher also argues that
plaintiff unreasonably delayed.  While
there is case law that says an unreasonable delay is a ground to reject a
motion to vacate, the rule is cited more than it is followed.  This court does not view the delay here as
being all that lengthy and in the absence of some actual prejudice to the
defense, the delay will not carry the day. 
Defendant suggests that some form of payment should be required.  There is no sanction option here, but the
court can require plaintiff to pay any fees and costs incurred by defense
counsel as a result of the erroneous dismissal. 
However, no such fees or costs have been identified except potentially
for the cost of opposing this motion. 
Under these circumstances, the court believes that the ends of justice
are better served by not imposing any payment obligation on plaintiff or
plaintiff’s counsel.
 
In short, the court
believes that the dismissal was the result of an honest error.  Because of that, the motion is GRANTED.  The matter is reinstated to the active
docket.  The court will discuss with
counsel when to set a CMC.  