 Case Number:  23AHCV01453    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIBEL ARREOLA-GONZALEZ, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AHMC SAN
   GABRIEL VALLEY MEDICAL CENTER LP, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23AHCV01453
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LI CUI, M.D.’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 1,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On June 26,
2023, plaintiffs Maribel Arreola-Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”), Saul Gonzalez Arreola,
and Eva Gonzalez Arreola filed this action against defendant Li Cui
(“Defendant”), among other medical professionals, arising from the death of
Jorge Gonzalez (“Decedent”). On January 10, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress (“NIED”). Defendant argues that the NIED claim fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is time-barred by the statute of
limitations. 
          On
April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
          No
reply brief is on file. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public
Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific
factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations. (Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s NIED claim is untimely because the
injury-producing event occurred on January 27, 2022, and Plaintiff had to have
brought her claim within 1 year. Defendant cites to Campanano v. California
Medical Center (1995) 38 Ca.App.4th 1322), in which the parties had
stipulated that the applicable statute of limitations would be 1 year pursuant
to CCP § 340(3), which no longer exists. Instead, the applicable statute is CCP
§ 335.1, which provides a 2-year statute of limitations period which applies to
an action for injury to an individual caused by the neglect of another.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer on this ground is OVERRULED. 
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. To plead an
NIED claim pursuant to a bystander theory, the plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating that he or she “(1) is closely related to the injury victim; (2)
is present at the scene of the injury producing event at the time it occurs and
is then aware that it is causing injury to the victim; and (3) as a result
suffers serious emotional distress—a reaction beyond that which would be
anticipated in a disinterested witness and which is not an abnormal response to
the circumstances.” (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 667-68.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails
to allege she was aware of the fact that Decedent was in need of immediate
medical attention or had knowledge that Defendant had failed to provide the
necessary care. (Demurrer, pp. 6-7.) Defendant argues that there are no
allegations that he was involved with the patient’s care after 2:00 p.m. and
emphasizes that Decedent’s face had allegedly turned black at 5:18 p.m. and
another doctor had asked Plaintiff to initiate a Code Blue. (Demurrer, p. 7.) 
Plaintiff only alleges that her NIED
claim is based on “[t]he rapid and grave deterioration of [Decedent]’s health.”
(Compl., ¶ 24.) In her opposition brief, Plaintiff cites to allegations describing
her observations of Decedent’s deteriorating condition, Defendant’s suspicion
of sepsis, and Decedent’s increased paralysis. (Opp., 2, citing to Compl., ¶¶ 13,
14, and 16.) Plaintiff also cites to allegations that Defendant failed to
provide immediate attention and instead told her that Decedent was “tired and
had been prescribed strong pain medication.” (Ibid.) While these
allegations would adequately support Plaintiff’s NIED claim and defeat
Defendant’s demurrer, those allegations are part of the Complaint’s medical
malpractice claim and are not incorporated into Plaintiff’s NIED claim. Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the NIED cause
of action is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 1st
day of May
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 