 Case Number:  23AHCV02064    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARY SWANSTON,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
THE
   CARTER PLACE, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02064
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 1,
  2024




 


 


 



 
Joe
 Utzurrum, of Utzurrum Law Offices, A.P.C., seeks to be relieved as
counsel of record for defendant Argiri Bratakos (“Defendant”) on grounds that irreconcilable
 differences have arisen. Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an
attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted. (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
The Court notes that trial in this
matter is not yet set and no prejudice will result from granting this motion.
However, Counsel’s lodged proposed order does not state Defendant’s current
telephone number in Item 6. The hearing on this matter is continued to May 8,
2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse so that a new
proposed order may be separately filed for the Court’s signature (instead of
attached to a notice of lodging). The Court imposes a quick turnaround because the
next proceeding in this matter is a hearing on a motion to compel Defendant’s
discovery responses scheduled for May 20, 2024. The proposed order must be
submitted no later than May 6, 2024. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 1st
day of May 2024  
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 