 Case Number:  22AHCV00990    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DARRYL ABBINANTE,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KATHERINE
   R. HARTER, M.D., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00990
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KATHERINE R. HARTER’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 1,
  2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On November
2, 2022, plaintiff Darryl Abbinante (“Plaintiff”) filed his complaint against defendant
Katherine R. Harter, M.D. (“Defendant”) alleging professional negligence
arising out of an emergency room encounter. 
          On December
11, 2023, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. 
          No opposition
brief has been filed.     
II.     LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
III.    DISCUSSION
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n August 5, 2021,
Plaintiff presented to the emergency room at ...Pasadena Hospital dba
Huntington Memorial Hospital (“Huntington Health”), complaining of severe,
debilitating mid-sternal pain radiating to his extremities which was so severe
as to render Plaintiff unable to walk. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges Dr.
Harter failed to timely diagnose and properly treat the heart attack and heart
condition from which Plaintiff was suffering upon his emergent presentation to
Huntington Health. (Compl., ¶ 16.)
In a medical malpractice action,
a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  [citations.]” (Galvez v.
Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action
must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from
finding it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the
standard of care.” (Johnson v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) 
Defendant argues that summary judgment should be
granted because Plaintiff cannot prove that she failed to comply with the
applicable standard of care. Defendant submits the expert declaration of
William Park, M.D. (“Dr. Park”), an emergency medicine physician practicing at
Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, California. (Park Decl., ¶¶ 1, 4.) Dr. Park
states that based on his knowledge, background, education, training, and
experience, he is familiar with the medical standard of care applicable to
emergency physicians in California. (Id., ¶ 6.) Dr. Park also states
that he has reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records and the operative complaint;
Plaintiff’s records from Huntington Hospital have been provided on a CD that
has been lodged with the Court. (Id., ¶ 8.) In Dr. Park’s opinion, Defendant’s
evaluation and treatment of Plaintiff met the standard of care. Dr. Park states
that Defendant appropriately pursued an evaluation for an abdominal etiology
upon Plaintiff’s arrival at the emergency department (“ED”) because he reported
epigastric pain and abdominal distension. (Id., ¶ 11.) Defendant ordered
an EKG and troponin, but there were no EKG findings of a STMI, so “the standard
of care did not require [her] to urgently request a cardiology consultation at
that time.” (Id., ¶ 12.) Dr. Park states that Defendant had to interpret
the EKG herself and appropriately consulted with a cardiologist after
diagnosing an NSTEMI. (Id., ¶¶ 13-14.) Dr. Park also states that
treatment decisions regarding catheterization or medication were the sole
responsibility of the cardiologist and that Defendant appropriately discussed
Plaintiff’s case with the cardiologist and followed the cardiologist’s
recommendations to start heparin and beta blockers to treat NSTEMI. (Id.
¶ 15.) 
“When a defendant moves for summary judgment and
supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.) Here,
Plaintiff did not oppose the motion or submit a competing expert declaration.
Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to meet his burden to raise a triable issue of
material fact. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
The Court orders the CD containing
electronic exhibits returned to Defendant. They shall be retained and
maintained at their respective offices pending final determination of this
action, including time for motions and appeal, thereafter to be disposed of as
they see fit, unless otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 1st
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at AHLDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the
instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.