 Case Number:  24CHCV00790    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  F51 
OCTOBER 23, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 24CHCV00790

 
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Filed: 7/12/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Fadi Edmond Elzayat, D.D.S. (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Julian Lawrence Colberg (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant demurs against Plaintiff’s entire complaint. Defendant
also moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend, and the motion to strike is moot.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 3/12/24, Plaintiff filed his
complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Trespass; (2) Fraud; (3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (5) Deprivation of Right; (6) Subversion; (7) Mischief/Intentional
Indifference & Malice; (8) Assault/Battery; (9) False Imprisonment; (10)
Unjust Enrichment; and (11) Racketeering.
 
On 7/12/24, Defendant filed and
served the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 7/15/24, Plaintiff filed
his opposition.[1] No
reply has been filed to date.
 
DEMURRER
 
As a general matter,
a party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on the basis of any
single or combination of eight enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is
uncertain, meaning “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e) and (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on
the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ 
 
Here, Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint, arguing that Plaintiff fails to allege
facts sufficient to constitute any of the causes of action contained therein,
therefore rendering the complaint fatally uncertain.
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The demurring
party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A)
The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.” (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendant’s
counsel declares that on 7/2/24, she sent Plaintiff a meet and confer letter in
an attempt to resolve the issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike
but received no response. (Decl. of Yee Lam ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the Court finds
that counsel has satisfied
the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Factual
Sufficiency
 
Plaintiff alleges against
Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Trespass; (2) Fraud; (3)
Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5) Deprivation
of Right; (6) Subversion; (7) Mischief/Intentional Indifference & Malice;
(8) Assault/Battery; (9) False Imprisonment; (10) Unjust Enrichment; and (11)
Racketeering.
 
Here, Defendant argues that
“Plaintiff’s Complaint is unintelligible and consists of nothing more a list of
alleged causes of action without any supporting facts or allegations.” (Dem. 6:5–6.)
“In the present case, the plaintiff has failed even the most basic pleading
requirements. The entirety of the complaints consists of one page stating
eleven causes of action by their name only. There are no factual allegations as
to proper venue and parties and most importantly there are no facts and/or
allegations at all to support any of the causes of action.” (Id. at 7:9–12.)
 
Upon review of Plaintiff’s
one-page complaint, the Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff has failed
to state any substantive factual allegations. Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to constitute any causes
of action against Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained against the
entire complaint on this basis.
 
C.   
Uncertainty
 
Generally speaking, “demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly construed because
ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of discovery. Such
demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.) “Where the complaint contains
substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues
it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or
plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that the
complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (f). As the complaint is devoid of any factual allegations against
Defendant, the Court agrees with Defendant, and finds that the complaint is
fatally uncertain. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained against the entire
complaint on this basis.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th
118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Based on the defects outlined
above including the uncertainty of the complaint, the demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend. 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Here, as the Court sustains the
demurrer, the to strike is therefore moot. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend and the motion to strike is moot.


