  Case Number:  22CHCV01033    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  F51  OCTOBER 23, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 22CHCV01033    Motion Filed: 6/20/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Valencia B. Imports, Inc. dba  Valencia BMW (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Terry Stevenson (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  moves to strike either of Plaintiff’s experts, Azadeh Farin, M.D., or Edwin  Haronian, M.D., from Plaintiff’s Expert Designation as duplicative.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.   BACKGROUND    This is a  personal injury action in which Plaintiff, a vehicle passenger, alleges she was  injured on 2/26/21 when nonmoving defendant Donte Ellsworth rear-ended  Plaintiff’s Mercedes-Benz vehicle with a BMW vehicle. (Compl. ¶¶ 5–7.)  Plaintiff alleges that Ellsworth was employed by Defendant and acting within  the scope of his employment at all relevant times. (Ibid.)   On 11/1/22,  Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging against both Defendants the sole cause  of action for Personal Injury. On 12/2/22, Defendant filed its answer.   On 6/10/24,  Plaintiff served her Designation of Experts. On 6/20/24, Defendant filed the  instant motion to strike. On 10/11/24, Plaintiff filed her opposition. On 10/17/24,  Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   Here,  Defendant argues that “as part of her Expert Designation, Stevenson has  included both Azadeh Farin, M.D. and Edwin Haronian M.D. as retained experts.  However, in her list of areas for each Expert, Stevenson has provided nearly  identical topic listings. As such, one or the other expert is duplicative and  should be stricken from this matter.” (Def.’s Mot. 3:6–9.)   A.    Legal  Authority   Defendant bases the instant motion on Code  of Civil Procedure section 436, Evidence Code section 723, and a number of  cases. For the following reasons, the Court finds each authority to be  inapplicable to the instant action.   Under Code of Civil Procedure section 436,  the Court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms  it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in  any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a) [emphasis added].) As  Plaintiff observes in opposition, “an expert designation is not a pleading.”  (Pl.’s Opp. 1:22.) Accordingly, the Court finds that section 436 does not  provide Defendant with the authority to strike either Dr. Farin or Dr. Haronian  from Plaintiff’s Expert Designation.    Next,  Defendant cites to Fairfax v. Lords (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1019, to  support its position that “a party can bring a motion to strike an expert  designated in the same field at any time prior to trial.” (Def.’s Mot. 5:4–5.)  As Plaintiff observes in opposition, “Fairfax says nothing to this  effect. Fairfax dealt with a late or ‘delayed’ expert designation, not a  situation where there is an expert designation ‘in the same field’ as Defendant  contends.” (Pl.’s Opp. 1:26–28.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the Fairfax  case is inapplicable to the facts presented here.   Next,  Defendant contends that “under Evidence Code § 723, it is the policy of  California Law that parties are limited to one expert per field of expertise  per side, absent a court order to the contrary.” (Def.’s Mot. 5:6–7.) However,  Evidence Code section 723 merely gives the Court wide discretion to, “at any  time before or during the trial of an action, limit the number of expert  witnesses to be called by any party.” (Evid. Code § 723.) The statute is silent  as to any limit to number of experts per field of expertise or requirements for  court orders to the contrary.   Finally,  Defendant cites to two cases where the Court of Appeal affirmed the exclusion  of expert testimony as unduly cumulative of another testifying expert’s opinion.  (South Bay Chevrolet v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. (1992) 72  Cal.App.4th 861, 906; Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th  234, 248–250.) In contrast, and as Plaintiff argues in opposition, here, those  cases are distinguishable because Defendant filed the instant motion to strike  an expert designation, as opposed to and prior to obtaining any expert testimony  as found in those cases. (Pl.’s Opp. 2:2–7 [“Defendant cites various cases  about ‘cumulative testimony’ and a ‘substantial overlap’ in testimony … without  actually providing any information or testimony to this Court as to what  testimony from Dr. Farin and Dr. Haronian is actually ‘cumulative’ or ‘overlapping’  because Defendant jumped the gun on filing a motion before deposing these  doctors to obtain their trial opinions.”].) Accordingly, the Court finds that South  Bay Chevrolet and Belfiore-Braman are inapposite here.   B.     Substantive  Merits   Even if  Defendant had successfully provided the Court with applicable legal authority  to strike an expert from Plaintiff’s Expert Designation, the Court finds little  merit to Defendant’s argument. According to the Expert Designation, Dr. Farin  is a neurosurgeon and Dr. Haronian is an orthopedic surgeon. (Ex. A to Decl. of  Tami S. Crosby.) Plaintiff represents that since the filing of the instant  motion, both of the doctors have been deposed, and “as made clear from the testimony,  both Dr. Farin and Dr. Haronian are offering opinions with respect to  Plaintiff’s injuries and treatment as to different issues and aspects of  Plaintiff’s injuries within their respective specialties.” (Pl.’s Opp.  2:27–3:3.)   While  Defendant argues that Plaintiff “provides full copies of two Depositions  without excerpting down to the relevant pages,” the Court finds otherwise.  (Def.’s Reply 5:10–11.) Plaintiff proffers both deposition transcripts and  specifically point to examples of the differences in the testimony given by  each doctor: “Dr. Haronian is addressing this issue because he treated  Plaintiff within the workers compensation system as her treating physician (see  generally Exhibi[t] B [pages 12-17 of Dr. Haronian’s deposition].) and Dr.  Farin specifically stated she is leaving the apportionment issue to Dr.  Haronian. (See Exhibit A [page 19:8-20:3 of Dr. Farin’s deposition  transcript].) As another example, Dr. Farin, as the neurosurgeon, will be  discussing the findings on Plaintiff’s radiology films and will be showing the  films to the jury during her testimony, whereas Dr. Haronian, while he may  discuss the films generally, is not anticipated to go through the films with  the jury. (See e.g. Exhibit A [page 13-14] and Exhibit B [page 13].)” (Pl.’s  Opp. 3:6–14.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that “the only thing Defendant  puts before this Court in support of its motion is general designation  language. This is not a basis for exclusion of either expert.” (Id. at  3:16–18.) Accordingly, the motion is denied.   CONCLUSION    The motion is  denied.   The Court is not requesting oral argument on this  matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice  of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the  Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all  other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of  the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative ruling will  become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”         Notice may be given either by email at CHAdeptF51@LACourt.org or by  telephone at (818) 407-2233.