  Case Number:  22AHCV00286    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARITSA HERRERA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00286
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AND DOCUMENTS

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

August
   12, 2023




 


 


 



 
          Plaintiff
Maritsa Herrera (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she purchased a 2021 Honda Pilot (“Subject
Vehicle”) which suffered from a defective audio system, defective electrical
system, and defective braking system. (Compl., ¶ 12.) On December 4, 2023,
Plaintiff filed this motion for an order compelling Defendant American Honda
Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One), Nos. 16, 19, 20, 21, 32, and 42. 
On April 11, 2024, the Court issued a
tentative ruling which granted Plaintiff’s motion and overruled Defendant’s
objections based on their pending motion to compel arbitration, as well as any
objections on the grounds that the requests were vague, ambiguous, or
overbroad. The Court continued the hearing to allow for supplemental briefing
on the issue of whether producing the emails demanded would be unduly
burdensome for Defendant. 
Specifically, Plaintiff requests
documents, ESI, and electronic mail relating to any internal analysis or
investigation of the “Electrical Defect” in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the Subject Vehicle. (RFP No. 16.) Plaintiff also requests all
documents, ESI, and electronic mail regarding customer complaints, claims,
reported failures, and warranty claims related to the “Electrical Defect” as
well as all documents concerning Defendant’s response to each complaint, claim
or reported failure. (RFP No. 19.) Plaintiff additionally seeks documents
“regarding the failure rate of vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the Subject Vehicle as a result of the Electrical Defect” in addition to “any
fixes for the Electrical Defect in vehicles of the same year, make, and model.”
(RFP Nos. 20, 21.) Plaintiff’s definition of “Electrical Defect” includes
“defects which result in symptoms of: failure of the windows to roll up when
the vehicle is in accessory mode, flickering of the lights when the vehicle is
off and the brake pedal is being engaged, the infotainment screen turning
black, the infotainment screen turning green, the cruise control being
inoperable, the brake message illuminating spontaneously while the vehicle is
in motion, flickering of the dashboard when taking phone calls, Apple CarPlay
being unavailable at times, the gauge cluster flickering, malfunction of apple
CarPlay, premature battery failure; and any other concern identified in the
repair history for the subject 2021 Honda Pilot; Vehicle identification
#5FNYF6H27MB004774.” 
At the previous hearing, Defendant
argued that gathering the emails responsive to Plaintiff’s document requests would
take approximately 6 months. On May 14, 2024, Defendant submitted a
supplemental brief arguing that it was not reasonable to order the production
of emails from its engineers because it “would require a determination of the
engineer/custodian who most likely may have emails related to the broad
definition and then individually search each custodian’s email account in order
to determine whether it contains any potentially responsive documents.” Defendant
claims that the Subject Vehicle is a 2021 model year vehicle so searches would
require individual review of multiple years of emails by an individual with
“the proper technical training to necessarily manually read all of the email
correspondence and any potential attached documents and make a determination of
whether any were related to [P]laintiff’s broad definition of ELECTRICAL DEFECTS.”
Then, if an email is determined to be responsive, it would have to have any
“Personal Identifying Information” redacted. This process “would likely require
hundreds of hours and tens of thousands of dollars.” 
Defendant’s supplemental brief is far
too generalized for the Court to conclude that the search and production of
engineering emails related to the “Electrical Defect” would be overly
burdensome. Even though Defendant claimed that this process would take six
months at the hearing, there is no concrete evidence showing that this is an
accurate estimate. For example, Defendant does not identify the number of
engineers it employs or how many whose emails must be searched in order to
address those 11 symptoms, or any estimate of how many documents would need to
be reviewed in total. (See Mead Reinsurance Co. v. Superior Court (1986)
188 Cal.App.3d 313, 318.) Instead, Defendant’s supplemental brief describes the
typical discovery process of identifying the appropriate custodians,
determining which search terms to use in filtering out emails, and conducting
standard document review. Defendant also argues that searching and producing
emails would be unnecessarily cumulative and intrusive, and the information
sought by Plaintiff is available through the production of internal analysis or
investigative documents related to the claimed Electrical Defects. But the fact
that the information may be cumulative does not justify the objection to producing
responsive documents without a showing that doing so would be overly
burdensome. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549-550.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendant’s objections and GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.  Defendant is ordered to serve further
responses to RFP Nos. 16, 19-21, 32, and 42 within 20 days of the date of this
Order and produce all responsive documents in its possession, custody, and
control. 
Dated
this 12th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 