  Case Number:  24CHCV01544    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  F49  



Dept.
  F49




Date:
  11/19/24




Case
  Name: Arlene Aleman v. Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, Audley
  Osbourne, M.D., John Hawkins, M.D., Brian Lee, M.D., Andrew Behesnilian, M.D.,
  Henry Shih, M.D., and Does 1 to 20




Case
  No. 24CHCV01544



 
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

NOVEMBER 19, 2024
 

DEMURRER 

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV01544

 
Motion
filed: 10/17/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Audley Osbourne, M.D. and
Andrew Behesnilian, M.D.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Arlene Aleman 
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order sustaining Defendants Audley Osbourne,
M.D. and Andrew Behesnilian, M.D.’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The Demurrer
is OVERRULED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff Arlene Aleman (“Plaintiff” or
“Aleman”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Providence Holy Cross Medical
Center, Audley Osbourne, M.D. (“Osbourne”), Brandon Hawkins, M.D., Brian Lee,
M.D. (“Lee”), Andrew Behesnilian, M.D. (“Behesnilian”), Henry Shih, M.D. (“Shih”),
and Does 1 to 20, alleging two causes of action: (1) Medical Malpractice, and
(2) Medical Battery. On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff submitted an Amendment to
Complaint, correcting the name of Defendant Brandon Hawkins, M.D. to John
Hawkins, M.D. (“Hawkins”). Subsequently, Defendant Lee filed his Answer to the
Complaint on October 9, 2024. 
 
On October 17, 2024, Defendants Osbourne and Behesnilian
(“Demurring Defendants”) filed the instant Demurrer (the “Demurrer”).
Subsequently, Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the Demurrer on November 5,
2024, and Demurring Defendants filed their Reply on November 12, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds
for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions
of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) 
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against them. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
A.    Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice
of the following matters:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: Confirmation of Plaintiff’s
filing of the Complaint, dated April 22, 2024 (RJN Ex. “A.”)
 
2.     
RJN No. 2: Confirmation of Plaintiff’s filing of
the Complaint, dated April 23, 2024 (RJN Ex. “B.”)
 
3.     
RJN
No. 3: Confirmation of Plaintiff’s filing of the Complaint, dated April 24,
2024 (RJN Ex. “C.”)
 
Evidence
Code section 452 provides, in pertinent part, “Judicial notice may be taken of the
following matters: ... (d) Records of (1) any court of this state
or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States.”
 
            Accordingly, the Court GRANTS RJN Nos. 1, 2, and 3. 
 
B.     Meet
and Confer
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(4).)
 
Here, Demurring Defendants’ counsel, Kevin P. Miller
(“Miller”), declares that Demurring Defendants sent a letter to Plaintiff’s
counsel, Shirley Kenninger, outlining the grounds for the Demurrer. (Miller ¶
3.) Despite the exchange of correspondence, the parties were unable to reach an
agreement. (Ibid.)
 
The Court acknowledges the parties’ efforts to meet and
confer; however, the Demurring Defendants’ chosen method, corresponding through
letters, is insufficient to satisfy the requirements for an in-person of
telephonic meet and confer, as mandated by the Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a).
 
Nevertheless, the Court will proceed to examine the merits
of the Demurrer, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a)(4).
 
C.    Statute of Limitations
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
340.15 provides, in pertinent part, that:
 
“In an action for injury or death
against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional
negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after
the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever
occurs first. In no event shall the time for commencement of legal action
exceed three years unless tolled for any of the following: (1) upon proof of
fraud, (2) intentional concealment, or (3) the presence of a foreign body,
which has no therapeutic or diagnostic purpose or effect, in the person of the
injured person.”
 
Demurring Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
Complaint is time-barred because (1) the one-year statute of limitations
applies to this case, and (2) Plaintiff’s filing of the Complaint on April 24,
2024, exceeded the one-year time limit from the April 20, 2023, the date of the
alleged tortious action. (Dem. at p. 5.)
 
In response, Plaintiff concedes
that the one-year time limit applies; however, she contends that the filing
deadline should be April 22, 2024, and her April 24, 2024 filing should be considered
as timely, since her previous filings on April 22, and 23, 2024, were all
rejected for clerical errors. (Opp’n. at p. 2.)
 
The Court turns to examine the
issue of timeliness.
 
1)     
Filing Deadline
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 12, “[t]he time in which any act provided by law is to be done is computed by
excluding the first day, and including the last, unless the last day is a
holiday, and then it is also excluded. (Code Civ. Proc., § 12, see also Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 1.10(a).)
 
“If the last day
for the performance of any act provided or required by law to be performed
within a specified period of time is a holiday, then that period is hereby
extended to and including the next day that is not a holiday. For purposes of
this section, “holiday” means all day on Saturdays, all holidays specified in
Section 135 and, to the extent provided in Section 12b, all days that by terms
of Section 12b are required to be considered as holidays.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 12,
subd. (a).) 
 
The
California Supreme Court has held that “[Code of Civil Procedure] section 12, [subdivision] (a) applies
to statutes of limitation in general. [Citation]” (Deleon v. Bay Area Rapid
Transit Dist. (1983) 33 Cal.3d 456, 461.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that the tortious action for both causes of
action took place on April 20, 2023. (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 12.) Applying the one-year
statute of limitations, the filing deadline became April 20, 2024, per Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.15. Since April 20, 2024,  fell on a Saturday, the deadline for filing
the Complaint is extended to the next nonholiday day, Monday, April 22, 2024.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 12, subd. (a).)
 
Accordingly, the Court agrees
with Plaintiff’s assessment that the filing deadline for the Complaint was
April 22, 2024. 
 
The Court next considers whether statutory
tolling applies in situations where, like here, the Complaint filed on the
deadline was rejected due to clerical errors.
 
2)      Statutory
Tolling
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1010.6 governs the electronic service and filing of documents. “A trial court may adopt local rules permitting electronic
filing of documents....  Any document received electronically by the court
between 12:00 a.m. and 11:59:59 p.m. on a court day shall be deemed filed on
that court day. Any document that is received electronically on a noncourt day
shall be deemed filed on the next court day.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd.
(e)(3).)
 
Additionally, California Rules of Court rule 2.253(b)(6)
provides:
“The effective date of filing any document received
electronically is prescribed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6. This
provision concerns only the effective date of filing. Any document that is
received electronically must be processed and satisfy all other legal filing
requirements to be filed as an official court record.” (Underlines added.) The underlined
language warns that mere receipt of a document does not mean it will be filed.
The document may be rejected due to errors or failure to pay required filing
fees. 
 
            Significantly,
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (e)(4)(E), states, “If
the clerk of the court does not file a complaint or cross complaint because
the complaint or cross complaint does not comply with applicable filing
requirements or the required filing fee has not been paid, any statute of
limitations applicable to the causes of action alleged in the complaint or
cross complaint shall be tolled for the period beginning on the date on which
the court received the document and as shown on the confirmation of receipt
described in subparagraph (A), through the later of either the date on which
the clerk of the court sent the notice of rejection described in subparagraph
(C) or the date on which the electronic filing service provider or electronic
filing manager sent the notice of rejection as described in subparagraph (D), plus
one additional day if the complaint or cross complaint is subsequently
submitted in a form that corrects the errors which caused the document to be
rejected. The party filing the complaint or cross complaint shall not make
any change to the complaint or cross complaint other than those required to
correct the errors which caused the document to be rejected.” (Underlines added.)
 
Here, Plaintiff submitted evidence demonstrating
that she first filed the Complaint electronically on April 22, 2024, via the
vendor Green Filing. (RJN Ex. “A.”) This filing was rejected by the Court clerk
for clerical errors (Opp’n. at p. 2.) Plaintiff subsequently attempted to file
the Complaint electronically on April 23, and 24, 2024, (RJN Ex. “B”), and her
April 24, 2024 filing was ultimately accepted by the Court, with a Notice of
Confirmation of Electronic Filing generated the following day, April 25, 2024.
(RJN Ex. “C.”)
 
Based on these records, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s initial filing was received by the Court on April 22, 2024.
Although it was rejected due to clerical errors, statutory tolling applies under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (e)(4)(E), which addresses
this precise issue.
 
Since the Court has determined that the filing
deadline was April 22, 2024, it concludes that Plaintiff’s initial filing on
April 22, 2024, met the filing deadline. Therefore, the Complaint is not barred
by the statute of limitations.
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer on
this ground.   
 
D.    Second Cause of Action – Medical Battery
 
Demurring Defendants argue, in the alternative, that the Second Cause of
Action is subject to Demurrer because Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient
facts to state the cause of action. (Dem. at p. 6.)
 
“There are three elements
to a claim
for medical battery
under a violation
of conditional consent:
the patient must show his consent was conditional; the doctor intentionally
violated the condition while providing treatment; and the patient suffered harm
as a result of the doctor's violation of the condition. [Citation.]” (Conte v. Girard Orthopedic Surgeons Medical Group, Inc.
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1269.) Further, “[w]here a doctor obtains
consent of the patient to perform one type of treatment and subsequently
performs a substantially different treatment for which consent was not
obtained, there is a clear case of battery.” (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d
229, 239.)
 
Here, Demurring
Defendants assert that Plaintiff consent to the robotic surgery extended to the
insertion of a “different tube” and argue that this insertion did not amount to
a “substantially different” procedure. (Dem. at p. 7.) The Court finds this
argument unpersuasive.
 
In the
Complaint, Plaintiff alleges a clear condition of her consent that the
procedure would be performed with functional robotic equipment, as advised by
Defendant Osbourne following an unsuccessful prior surgery. (Compl. ¶ 9 [“In February of 2023 Defendant
Audley Osbourne M.D. scheduled the surgery at Encino Outpatient Surgical
Center.... After the surgery the Defendant Audley Osbourne M.D. informed the
Plaintiff that he was only able to remove one kidney stone. Defendant Audley
Osbourne M.D. explained to the Plaintiff that the other kidney stone was too
large and in a location where it was lodged in such a way that it would require
a special type of equipment ... a Robotic piece of equipment.”]) This condition
appears essential to Plaintiff’s consent to the procedure. 
 
Moreover, according to the
Complaint, Defendant Osbourne discovered during the procedure that the robotic
equipment had a broken lens. Despite this, he proceeded by inserting a second
tube to attempt stone removal, even though Plaintiff had expressly consented to
a robotic procedure. (Compl. ¶
15 [“... Audley Osbourne MD, proceeded to attempt to remove the kidney stone a
second time by placing another tube in the Plaintiff while she was sedated.
This occurred when the first attempted procedure could not be completed due to
the broken lens on the robotic equipment. Defendant Audley Osbourne MD. knew
that the robotic equipment could not be used after he had attempted to use it
only to discover the lens was broken so he then proceeded to attempt to remove
the stone by putting in another tube which was unsuccessful.”]) This alleged
action – performing a procedure by inserting a second tube while the robotic
equipment has broken lens and could not be used – may be reasonably inferred to
exceed the scope of Plaintiff’s consent. 
 
Additionally, when construing the
allegation liberally and assuming the facts as true, as is required in
reviewing a demurrer, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s consent was conditioned
upon the functional use of the robotic equipment. Therefore, whether the procedure,
as actually conducted, constituted a violation of Plaintiff’s consent or fell
outside the scope of her consent presents a mere triable issue, and does not affect
the Court’s finding of the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s allegations, as discussed
above. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Demurring
Defendants have failed to meet their required burden to show that the Second
Cause of Action is insufficiently stated.
 
            Therefore,
the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer on this ground.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants Audley Osbourne, M.D. and Andrew Behesnilian, M.D.’s
Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants Audley Osbourne, M.D. and Andrew Behesnilian, M.D. are
ordered to serve and file their Answers to the Complaint within 30 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.