  Case Number:  21STCV16180    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE 
 
The application for admission to appear as counsel pro hac
vice is CONTINUED to December 11, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
CRC Rule 9.40(c)(1) provides that an attorney in good standing
in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the
State of California by filing a verified application together with proof of
service by mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all
parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its
San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is
not a resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California. 
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s
residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a
member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application,
and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone
number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of
record in the local action.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Mina R. Ghantous seeks a court order permitting her to appear as
counsel pro hac vice to represent Defendant. 
 
The Court finds that Ghantous’s application does not comply with
the requirements of CRC Rule 9.40 at this time and must be continued.
There is no proof of service
by mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on
the State Bar at its San Francisco office. Further, there is no proof of
payment of the $50 fee to the State Bar. Hearne’s declaration states that
copies of the receipt of payment and correspondence to the State Bar are
attached as exhibit A, but there is no exhibit A. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Based on the foregoing, the
application for admission to appear as counsel pro hac
vice is CONTINUED to allow counsel to file proof of service on the State
Bar in San Francisco of the application and notice of the hearing, and the
receipt showing payment of $50. Further, as this hearing is being continued,
the State Bar should be provided notice of the continued hearing date as well.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 