 Case Number:  22STCV25765    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Defendants’
unopposed motion for stay of proceedings is GRANTED.
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants’
request judicial notice of this Court’s order granting arbitration between
Plaintiff and Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre LLC.
 
The request is
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4 provides: 
 
“If a court of
competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration
of a controversy which is an
issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State,
the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
The clear language of section 1281.4 compels the conclusion that any
party to a judicial proceeding, whether a party to an arbitration agreement or
not, is entitled to a stay of those proceedings whenever (1) the arbitration of
a controversy has been ordered, and (2) that controversy is also an issue
involved in the pending judicial action. It is irrelevant under the statute
whether the movant is a party to the arbitration agreement.  As stated
in Cook v. Superior Court, 240 Cal.App.2d 880, 885, “Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4 seems broad enough to vest the court with authority to
stay ‘the action or proceeding’ as to all issues, as to all causes of action,
and as to all parties, until arbitration is concluded . . . .” (Marcus v.
Superior Court (1977) 75 Cal.App.3d 204, 209.)
 
Discussion
 
The Kaiser
Defendants move for a stay of the proceedings pending arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre LLC.
The Kaiser Defendants were not a party to that arbitration agreement.
 
On February 24,
2023, this Court granted Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre LLC’s
motion to compel Plaintiffs to submit to arbitration. Plaintiff is alleging
elder abuse against all Defendants.
 
As
such, Defendants’ unopposed motion for stay of proceedings is GRANTED.  An
OSC re: status of arbitration is scheduled for April  18, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.  Defendant to file a Status Report re: arbitration at least five court days before the next hearing. Moving party to give notice.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 