  Case Number:  22STCV21527    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 24, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: February 6, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         STP Inc. v. City National Bank
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV21527            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City National Bank
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff STP Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a tort case that was filed on July 1, 2022.  In its First Amended Complaint, filed on
October 7, 2022, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knowingly cashed a check from
Plaintiff to the IRS that was intercepted and forged to direct payment to a
third party.
 
            Defendant
moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of all
causes of action. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion in the
Alternative for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the third cause of action
for negligence and otherwise DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment of Plaintiff’s claims against it. As Defendant is not entitled to
summary adjudication of all causes of action asserted against it for the
reasons stated herein, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
//
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Defendant
moves in the alternative for summary adjudication of each cause of action
asserted against it. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defective Separate Statement
 
            Both
Defendant’s Notice of Motion and its Separate Statement improperly identify the
issues to be adjudicated by the claimed legal theory, rather than by separately
identifying each cause of action at issue in the motion and separately setting
forth each material fact as to each cause of action. (Cal Rules of Court Rule
3.1350(d)(1).) As Plaintiff has not objected to the defects in the Separate
Statement, however, and Defendant’s contention is that each theory is equally
applicable to all causes of action, the Court will address the merits of
Defendant’s Motion. 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
objects to portions of the declarations of Kristina Biles and Bradley Jewett
filed in support of this motion. As neither declaration is material to the
Court’s ruling, the Court declines to rule on these objections. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(q).)
 
            Plaintiff
also asserts evidentiary objections in the body of the Separate Statement of
Material Facts offered in opposition. Objections must be served and filed separately
from other papers to be considered. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1354(b).) As
they were not separately filed, the Court refuses to consider these objections.
 
First Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for conversion. Defendant
offers three arguments in support of this position: first, that this cause of
action is barred by the statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure section 340(c); second, that Plaintiff’s claims based on payment of a
forged check are precluded under section 4406(f) of the Commercial Code; and
third, that Plaintiff waived all claims based on the forged check under the
terms of the operative Business Account Agreement. 
 
1.     
Statute of Limitations
 
Defendant first argues that all
causes of action in this case, all of which are based on payment of a forged
check, are barred by the one-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil
Procedure section 340(c). 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 458
requires that a party pleading a statute of limitations defense need not state
the facts showing the defense but must plead the section number and relevant
subdivision. (Code Civ. Proc. § 458.) A failure to properly plead the statute
of limitations “raise[s] no issue and present[s] no defense.” (Davenport v.
Stratton (1944) 24 Cal.2d 232, 247.) However, "[t]he rule as to the
proper plea of the statute of limitations is not self-operating but depends for
its enforcement on the diligence of the plaintiff in objecting to the
insufficiency of the plea either by demurrer to the answer or by timely
objection at the trial." (Id. at 248.) 
 
Defendant asserted a non-specific
statute of limitations defense as the Third Affirmative Defense in its Answer
to the First Amended Complaint. (Answer ¶ 3.) No specific statute of
limitations was specified, and nothing in the answer nor any other filing by
Defendant provides any indication that Code of Civil Procedure section 340(c)
was the operative provision. Plaintiff did not demur to the answer but has
raised objections to this defense by asserting in its opposition that the
statute of limitations defense was waived by Defendant’s failure to properly
plead it. As the Third Affirmative Defense is not compliant with Code of Civil
Procedure section 458 on its face, the Court finds that Defendant has failed to
adequately plead that section 340(c) is a bar to Plaintiff’s claims and is
therefore not entitled to summary adjudication on this basis. 
 
2.     
Preclusion By Commercial Code Section 4406(f)
 
Defendant next argues that each
cause of action is precluded by Commercial Code section 4406(f).  Commercial Code section 4406(f) provides: 
 
Without regard to care or lack of care
of either the customer or the bank, a customer who does not within one year
after the statement or items are made available to the customer (subdivision
(a)) discover and report the customer’s unauthorized signature on or any
alteration on the item is precluded from asserting against the bank the
unauthorized signature or alteration.
 
(Comm. Code § 4406(f).) Subdivision (a) states:
 
A bank that sends or makes available to
a customer a statement of account showing payment of items for the account
shall either return or make available to the customer the items paid or provide
information in the statement of account sufficient to allow the customer to
reasonably identify the items paid. The statement of account provides
sufficient information if the item is described by item number, amount, and
date of payment. If the bank does not return the items, it shall provide in the
statement of account the telephone number that the customer may call to request
an item, a substitute check, or a legible copy thereof pursuant to subdivision
(b).
 
(Comm. Code § 4406(a).) The one-year time limit under
section 4406 begins to run at the same time as the one-year statute of
limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 340(c). (Roy Supply, Inc.
v. Wells Fargo Bank (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1074 fn. 25.) Thus,
opinions addressing either statute concerning commencement of the one-year
period are read together. (See Mac v. Bank of America (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 562, 565.) 
 
            In
explaining the motivation of these statutes, our Supreme Court stated: 
 
The whole purpose of submitting monthly
or regular statements to depositors, together with canceled checks as vouchers
in support of them, is to direct the attention of the depositor to the state of
his account, to the credits in his favor, the charges against it, and to the
vouchers supporting these charges. It is his duty to examine the statement and
the vouchers, and to report at once any error in the one and any forgeries or
alterations of the other. If he does not do this within a reasonable time, the account
as rendered becomes an account stated between the bank and him.
 
(Union Tool Co. v. Farmers & Merchants’ Nat. Bank of
Los Angeles (1923) 192 Cal.40, 53.) The Court stated that “the statute
begins to run from the time the alleged ‘forged or raised’ check was delivered
to the depositor as a voucher supporting the payment made by the bank.” (Id.
at 52-53.) The Court of Appeal for the First District in Kiernan v. Union
Bank construed the time limit under section 4406 as commencing from the
date of deposit of the statement in the mail. (Kiernan v. Union Bank
(1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 111, 114.) However, that opinion relied on a previous version
of section 4406 that expressly stated the time limit began when the statement
was sent. (See Comm. Code § 4406(1), 1963 Cal.Stats Ch. 819.) Subsequent
opinions applying the modern statute instead apply the Union Tool
holding that the time to assert the claim begins to run from the date of
delivery of the statement, not its deposit in the mail. (See, e.g., Mac,
supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at 566, fn. 4, Roy Supply Inc., supra, 39
Cal.App.4th at 1074 fn. 25.) Thus, it appears under controlling precedent that
the relevant question is when Plaintiff received the statement showing the
allegedly forged check. 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this claim because the April 2021
statement showing the allegedly forged check, cleared on April 19, 2021, was
mailed to Plaintiff’s business address in the ordinary course of business on
April 30, 2021. Defendant also contends that the statement was available
through Defendant’s online portal or at any of its branch offices. Defendant
does not set forth these contentions anywhere in its Separate Statement, however,
nor is the evidence cited by Defendant in support of these contentions referenced
therein. (See generally SSUMF.) The Golden Rule of Summary Adjudication is “if
it is not set forth in the separate statement, it does not exist.” (United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337 [italics in
original].) Defendant has thus failed to carry its burden to demonstrate that
Plaintiff cannot prevail on this cause of action, or, consequently, on any
other cause of action based on this argument. Defendant is therefore not
entitled to summary adjudication on this basis. 
 
3.     
Waiver by Contract
 
            Defendant's
final argument is that each cause of action is barred because the Business
Account Agreement between the parties expressly disclaims any liability on
Defendant’s part for a forged check if Plaintiff does not report it within 60
days of the date on the statement or when the statement was made available,
whichever is earlier. Defendant offers no authority standing for the position
that the terms of a contract between it and Plaintiff are of any consequence to
Defendant’s liability for tortious conversion or statutory violations. Even Das
v. Bank of America, N.A., which Defendant cites for the principle that the
relationship between a bank and its depositors is based in contract, expressly
states that a bank can be subject to tort liability to a depositor. (Das v.
Bank of Am., N.A. (2010) 186 Cal. App. 4th 727, 741.) Moreover, a contract
which purports to relieve Defendant from responsibility for fraud, willful
injury of another, or violation of law is void as contrary to public policy. (See
Civ. Code § 1668.) Thus, at best, such a provision would serve as a waiver of
Plaintiff’s claim for negligence in the third cause of action only. In any
event, Defendant has not demonstrated that it is entitled to summary
adjudication of this cause of action based on the Business Account Agreement.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first cause of action is
DENIED. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Violation of Penal Code section
496
 
            Defendant
contends that the second cause of action for violation of Penal Code section
496 fails for the reasons stated above in connection with the first cause of
action. As the Court has rejected Defendant’s arguments in totality with
respect to Plaintiff’s statutory claims, Defendant is likewise not entitled to
summary adjudication on this claim.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the second cause of action is
DENIED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Negligence
 
            Defendant
contends that the third cause of action for negligence fails for the reasons
stated above in connection with the first cause of action. For the reasons
stated above, Defendant has not demonstrated that it is entitled to summary
adjudication under Code of Civil Procedure section 340(c) or Commercial Code
section 4406(f). 
 
            With
respect to this cause of action, Defendant again claims that it is shielded
from liability by the terms of its Business Account Agreement with Plaintiff. The
Account Agreement and Disclosures section states that: 
 
You [Plaintiff] must review each
statement we [Defendant] make available to you within 14 calendar days from the
time we make it available and notify us if the statement reflects a forged or
unauthorized item or transaction as stated above. 
 
. . . 
 
Without regard to lack of care of
either you or us, if you do not report an error or unauthorized signature,
alteration, forgery, counterfeit check, or other unauthorized debit to your
account within 60 days after the date of your statement or the date the
information about the item or transaction is made available to you, whichever
is earlier, you are precluded from asserting the error or unauthorized
transaction against us. 
 
(Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 15-16, Defendants’ Exh. 5 p.9.) As
Defendant observes, it is not disputed that Plaintiff reported the check on May
11, 2022, more than 60 days after the April 2021 statement was issued, whether
or not it was ever made available to Plaintiff. (See SSUMF Nos. 21, 24.) Defendant
has thus offered evidence that Plaintiff is precluded from asserting a
negligence claim against Defendant for the forged check under the terms of the
Agreement. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue
of fact in this respect. 
 
            Plaintiff,
in opposition, first argues it could not have complied with the terms of the
Account Agreement because the April 2021 statement did not “reflect[ ] a forged
or unauthorized item or transaction,” in that it did not identify the payee on
the tax check.  (Plaintiff’s Opp, p. 9.)  Because the April 2021 statement did not
disclose any forgery, it is argued, the 14-calendar-day period did not begin to
run, so it cannot be contended that Plaintiff’s objection was late under the
Account Agreement.  The Court agrees that
this argument might raise a triable issue of fact about whether Plaintiff’s
claims are barred under the first cited clause of the Account Agreement, but
not under the second one.  Under the
latter clause, Defendant is not liable to Plaintiff for an error or
unauthorized transaction unless it is discovered and reported within 60 days of
the date of the statement, even if Defendant has acted without due care in the
transaction.  (Defendant’s Exh. 5. pp.9,
18.) It is undisputed that Plaintiff did not report the transaction until May
11, 2022, even though it was listed on the April 30, 2021 statement.
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Material Facts Nos. 21, 24.) Plaintiff has therefore
not demonstrated substantial compliance, as the check was not reported within
60 days of the date of the statement, regardless of whether that statement gave
adequate notice of the alleged forgery. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues in the alternative that Defendant cannot enforce the terms of the
Agreement because it was itself in breach of the agreement by failing to
meaningfully investigate Plaintiff’s forgery claim. Plaintiff offers no
evidence of this contention other than an email from Defendant stating that it
was proceeding with collection on the check as a courtesy, even though the
reclamation period had expired. (See SAF No. 38; Declaration of Clay Wilkinson
ISO Opp. Exh. C.) Nothing in this document speaks to Defendant’s investigation
of the forgery claim. The Court is therefore not persuaded by this argument. Nor
is the Court persuaded by Plaintiff’s conclusory assertion that Defendant
should not be permitted to profit from its own wrongdoing because Plaintiff’s
bank statements were allegedly not properly mailed to him given that the
agreement expressly states that Defendant is not liable for a failure to report
arising from its own lack of care.
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff asserts that the Court should continue the hearing on this motion
because there is outstanding discovery that might elicit facts essential to
justify the opposition. Plaintiff’s conclusory statement offers no basis for
the Court to do so, and the Court is therefore not persuaded that such a
measure is warranted. 
 
            In sum, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has not carried its burden to demonstrate that there
is a triable issue of fact that precludes the express terms of the Business
Account Agreement from barring Plaintiff’s negligence claim. Defendant is
therefore entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is GRANTED.

 
Fourth Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices
 
            Defendant
contends that the Fourth Cause of Action for unfair business practices fails
for the reasons stated above in connection with the first cause of action. As
the Court has rejected Defendant’s arguments in totality with respect to
Plaintiff’s statutory claims, Defendant is likewise not entitled to summary
adjudication on this claim.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the fourth cause of action is
DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion in the
Alternative for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the third cause of action
for negligence and otherwise DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 24,
2023                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 