  Case Number:  20STCV23979    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  19 

RULING
 
After
consideration of the briefing filed , the Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor, filed by Plaintiff Sandra Cruz as
parent and guardian ad litem for minor Plaintiff Brandon Salgado, is GRANTED.The Court signs the [Proposed] Order Approving Compromise of Claim or
Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a
Disability filed on July 27, 2023, after changing that the hearing date was November
6, 2023, not August 21, 2023.
Counsel for Plaintiff Sandra Cruz to give notice.
 
STATEMENT
OF THE CASE
 
This is residential habitability case. In the Fourth
Amended Complaint (“4AC”), Plaintiffs are individual tenants who reside at 3950
West 6th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90020 (the “Building” or the “Property”). (4AC,
¶ 1.) They bring suit against Defendant Tony Han, individually and in his
capacity as a Trustee of the Hyon Kyong Kim Living Trust and the Hyon Kyong Kim
Marital Trust (“Han”); Namhee Han Gilhuly, individually and in her capacity as
a Trustee of the Hyon Kyong Kim Living Trust and the Hyon Kyong Kim Marital
Trust (“Han Gilhuly”); De Young Kim, individually and in his capacity as a
Trustee of the Kim Family Trust, the Hyon Kyong Kim Living Trust, the De Young
Kim Living Trust, and the Hyon Kyong Kim Marital Trust; The Estate of Hyon
Kyong Kim; Beach Front Property Management, Inc.; Landpac Realty;  Brandon Smith; Dynasty Star LLC; Jung Ah Lee;
YJK Investment Corp.; and Korus Real Estate (collectively, “Defendants”)
alleging the following causes of action:
1.             
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
2.             
Negligence;
3.             
Premises Liability;
4.             
Nuisance;
5.             
Negligent Failure to Provide Habitable Premises;
6.             
Willful Interruption of Services;
7.             
Collection of Rent on Untenantable Dwelling;
8.             
Collection of Excessive Rent;
9.             
Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;
10.          
Violation of Unfair Competition Law 17200 et seq.; 
11.          
Retaliation;
12.          
Invasion of Privacy;
13.          
Harassment; and
14.          
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
The 4AC alleges
that Defendants were responsible for maintaining the Building but repeatedly
failed to do so in violation of a number health and safety code provisions,
resulting in the Building being unsafe and unhealthy for its tenants.
 
Plaintiff Sandra Cruz (hereafter,
“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or
Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor (the “Petition”) for
minor Plaintiff Brandon Salgado (hereafter, “Claimant”). 
 
PETITION TO APPROVE MINORS’ COMPROMISE
 
A.   
Legal Standards
A petition for
approval of the compromise of a minor’s claim is governed by Code of Civil
Procedure section 372, California Rules of Court, rules 7.950 through 7.955, and
Probate Code sections 3500 and 3600 through 3613. The petition “must be
verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise,
covenant, settlement, or disposition.” (Cal. R. Ct., 7.950.) Except for
petitions for expedited approval of a compromise as provided in California
Rules of Court, rule 7.950.5, “the petition must be submitted on a completed
Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form MC-350).” (Id.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 7.951
provides that:
 
If the petitioner
has been represented or assisted by an attorney in preparing the petition for
approval of the compromise of the claim or in any other respect with regard to
the claim, the petition must disclose the following information:
 
(1)  The name, state bar number, law firm, if any,
and business address of the attorney;
 
(2)  Whether the attorney became involved with the
petition, directly or indirectly, at the instance of any party against whom the
claim is asserted or of any party's insurance carrier;
 
(3)  Whether the attorney represents or is
employed by any other party or any insurance carrier involved in the matter;
 
(4)  Whether the attorney has received any
attorney's fees or other compensation for services provided in connection with
the claim giving rise to the petition or with the preparation of the petition,
and, if so, the amounts and the identity of the person who paid the fees or
other compensation;
 
(5)  If the attorney has not received any
attorney's fees or other compensation for services provided in connection with
the claim giving rise to the petition or with the preparation of the petition,
whether the attorney expects to receive any fees or other compensation for
these services, and, if so, the amounts and the identity of the person who is
expected to pay the fees or other compensation; and
 
(6)  The terms of any agreement between the
petitioner and the attorney.
(Cal. R. Ct., 7.951.)
 
Further, California Rules of Court, rule
7.953, provides as follows: 
 
(a) Acknowledgment
of receipt by financial institution. In any case in which the court orders that
funds to be received by a minor or a person with a disability must be deposited
in a financial institution and not disbursed without further order of the
court, the order must include a provision that a certified or filed endorsed
copy of the order must be delivered to a manager at the financial institution
where the funds are to be deposited, and that a receipt from the financial
institution must be promptly filed with the court, acknowledging receipt of
both the funds deposited and the order for the deposit of funds. 
 
(b) Order
permitting the withdrawal of funds by a former minor. If, in the order
approving the compromise of a minor's claim, there is a finding that the minor
will attain the age of majority on a definite date, the order for deposit may
require that the depository permit the withdrawal of funds by the former minor
after that date, without further order of the court.
(Cal. R. Ct., 7.953(a))
 
California Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subdivision
(a) requires the court to use a reasonable fee standard when approving and
allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or property paid or
to be paid for the benefit of a minor, unless the Court approved the fee
arrangement in advance. (Cal. R. Ct., 7.955(a)(1).) “The court must give
consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made between the
attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability and
must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at
the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.” (Cal. R. Ct., 7.955(a)(2).) In
a petition requesting court approval and allowance of attorney's fees, California
Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subdivision (c) requires the attorney to submit a
declaration that addresses the following nonexclusive factors applicable to the
matter before the court that the court may consider:
 
(1)  The fact that a minor or person with a
disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or person with a
disability.
(2)  The amount of the fee in proportion to the
value of the services performed.
(3)  The novelty and difficulty of the questions
involved and the skill required to perform the legal services properly.
(4)  The amount involved and the results obtained.
(5)  The time limitations or constraints imposed
by the representative of the minor or person with a disability or by the
circumstances.
(6)  The nature and length of the professional
relationship between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person
with a disability.
(7)  The experience, reputation, and ability of
the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services.
(8)  The time and labor required.
(9)  The informed consent of the representative of
the minor or person with a disability to the fee.
(10)  The relative sophistication of the attorney
and the representative of the minor or person with a disability.
(11)  The likelihood, if apparent to the
representative of the minor or person with a disability when the representation
agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the particular employment
would preclude other employment.
(12)  Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or
contingent.
(13)  If the fee is contingent:
(A)  The risk of loss borne by the attorney;
(B)  The amount of costs advanced by the attorney;
and
(C)  The delay in payment of fees and
reimbursement of costs paid by the attorney.
(14)  Statutory requirements for representation
agreements applicable to particular cases or claims.
(Cal. R. Ct., 7.955(b),
(c).) 
B.   
Analysis
Here, the Petition is brought pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 7.950. The
Petition is verified and submitted on required Judicial Council form MC-350.
 
The Petition seeks approval of an offer by
Defendants Tony Han, NamHee Han Gilhuly, De Young Kim, Dynasty Star, LLC, Beach
Front Property Management, Inc., Landpac Realty, and Brandon Smith (the
“Settling Defendants”) to settle Claimant’s claim for $39,849.58 as part of a
$1,500,000.00 settlement to settle the entire action against Settling
Defendants. (Petition, §§ 10-11, Attachment 11b(5).) The Petition seeks
approval for $9,962.40, or twenty-five percent (25%) of the $39,849.58 settlement
amount to Claimant, and for $767.56 in “Litigation costs,” for a net settlement
amount to Claimant of $29,119.62. (Id. at §§ 13-15.) 
 
The Petition includes all the required disclosures
of attorney’s interest set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 7.951. (See
id. at § 17.) As required by
California Rules of Court, rule 7.955, the Petition includes a declaration from
Plaintiffs’ counsel addressing the factors applicable in determining the
reasonableness of the requested attorney’s fees and provides a copy of the
written attorney fee agreement. (See id. at §§ 13, 17, Attachments 13a & 17a.) The Court finds that the
requested attorney’s fees are reasonable. The retainer agreement provided for
payment of attorney’s fees equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the gross monies
recovered in connection with each minor’s claims. (See Attachment 17a, p. 4 at
§ 6.)  The Petition indicates that
Plaintiffs’ counsel is representing or employed by other parties and specifies
the parties in Attachment 17e. (Id. at § 17e, Attachment 17e.)
 
The Petition indicates that Claimant has completely
recovered from the effects of the injuries described in item 6, and that there
are no permanent injuries. (Id. at § 8.)
 
The Court finds that Petition contains a full
disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of
the settlement amount to Claimant and that the settlement amount to Claimant is
reasonable given Claimant’s injuries and lack of medical expenses. 
 
The Petition requests that the net proceeds be invested
in a single-premium deferred annuity, subject to withdrawal only on
authorization of the Court, (id. at § 17(b)), and specifies the terms and conditions of the annuity in
Attachment 18b(3). (Id. at Attachment 18b(3).) 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petition is GRANTED.
 
 