 Case Number:  SC123657    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  I The major issue to go through is Farr/Reinstein’s argument
that the License Agreements and the Non-Compete are sufficiently distinct such
that the proper defendants to each are different..  The defense asserts that Triurol, and only
Triurol, can sue for breach of the License Agreements and it may sue Farr, and
only Farr, therefor.  Similarly, the
individual plaintiffs, and only the individual plaintiffs, can sue for breach
of the non-compete and they may sue Reinstein, and only Reinstein,
therefor.  The defense states that this
is a matter of contract interpretation for the court and not the jury.  Plaintiffs assert that the contracts are
essentially to be read together as one larger transaction such that everyone is
essentially a party to every contract. 
Triurol impliedly suggests that as the License Agreements were amended
or new ones added, the non-compete agreement continued to be a part of
them.  (Triurol has objected to the very
recently filed brief by the defense, but the court has at least considered
tentative thoughts below, and the matter must be dealt with at some point
before trial.)
 
It is plainly true that contract interpretation is generally
a question for the court.  Thus, in most
cases, it is for the court to tell the jury what the terms of a contract are,
and then the jury can determine if there has been a breach and, if so, what the
damages are and who is liable for those damages.  It is not proper for the jury to interpret
most contracts.  Where a contract is unambiguous
and there is no parol evidence suggesting a latent or patent ambiguity, then
the contract’s interpretation is solely for the court and it must be based on
the contract’s words alone.  Where there
is a latent or patent ambiguity, parol evidence may be introduced to interpret
or resolve the ambiguity so long as the interpretation advanced or supported by
the parol evidence is one to which the contract’s words are reasonably
susceptible.  In short, the court
considers parol in two parts.  First, the
evidence is conditionally admitted.  If,
after its admission, the court concludes that the evidence supports an interpretation
to which the words of the contract are reasonably susceptible, then the
evidence is admitted fully.  Where the
parol evidence is not in dispute, interpretation remains for the court to
decide, even if conflicting inferences can be drawn from the evidence to
resolve the ambiguity either way.  This
seems odd, in the sense that drawing from amongst competing reasonable
inferences would seem to be a jury function, but the law is clear that it is a
judicial function.  The exception is
where the parol evidence is in dispute. 
Under those circumstances, it is for the jury, not the court, to
resolve the dispute.  In that
circumstance, contract interpretation can be a jury function rather than a
judicial one.  The reason for the
dichotomy is that it is the jury’s job to say what the facts are; it is not for
the court to do that.
 
Here, all agree on many of the facts.  The words of the various contracts are not in
dispute.  They say what they say, and no
one is claiming a different version or that a contract is forged.  Therefore, to the extent that the words are
clear and unambiguous—even with parol evidence—the interpretation is for the
court.  And to the extent that the parol
evidence is essentially the words of other contracts, that, too, will result in
a judicial determination.
 
Here, there is some ambiguity in the court’s view.  The license agreements have a preamble.  It states that the contract is entered into
“by and between TRIUROL, INC., . . . consisting of its principals FLOYD
A. KATSKE, M.D., DANIEL SHOSKES, M.D., and JACOB RAJFER, MD., (‘Triurol’),
and FARR LABORATORIES, LLC, consisting of its principals al Rodriguez
AND FRED REINSTEIN (‘Farr Laboratories’) . . . .”  (Emphasis in original.)  That is oddly worded.  It could have and would have been easier not
to include the principals’ names in the preamble and the court notes that the
principals are all included in the definition of the contracting party.  This could lead to some ambiguity as to who
is bound.  The signature blocks, on their
face, support the defense, for the apparent contracting parties are Triurol and
Farr, with the signature blocks seeming to identify the authority of the person
signing, not that the signator was signing in an individual capacity.  Further, the benefits and burdens of the
license agreement tend to be worded as applying to the entities, not the
humans, although given the definition, that is less than certain.  However, the original license agreement and
the non-compete agreement were signed together, and it is often the cases that
where multiple contracts refer to one another and are signed at or near the
same time, they form (in essence) one larger agreement.  There is, in the court’s view room for that
interpretation here.  If that is the
case, then the question becomes the parties’ intent, and the intent is not so
clear from the contracts so as to admit neither patent nor latent
ambiguity.  Recall that the
entities—Triurol and Farr—are closely held entities.  And recall that every member of each entity
is named in the license agreement and signed the non-compete individually.  It is not an impossible leap to believe that
the individuals could have been intended to be bound by the license agreement
and that to the extent that Farr was involved in a violation of the non-compete
(or Triurol, for that matter) it would be liable.  Certainly it would not shock the court to
hear Farr so allege were it sued for interference with the non-compete
contract.
 
Whether the parol evidence supports one or the other,
though, is still for the court, not the jury, if the evidence is not in
dispute.  Surely the contracts’ words are
not in dispute.  But the court is hardly
sure that the contracts are the only evidence. 
There could well be evidence of discussions during negotiations that
would illumine the parties’ intentions. 
The court is well aware that a party’s uncommunicated subjective intent
or understanding is not admissible evidence. 
But if the intent was expressed, then the evidence is admissible.  The court has not heard the evidence yet, so
the court cannot rule on this motion yet. 
And if that evidence is in conflict, it will be for the jury to decide
what the facts are.  It could well be
that the court will instruct the jury along the lines of “if you find that (a)
is true, then the contract means (b)” or something similar.  But if the parties have differing
recollections of pertinent discussions, the jury, not the court, must resolve
the dispute.
 
Because of that, the court does not believe that it can
answer the question posed by defendants at this time.  The court believes that the language is at
least reasonably susceptible to either meaning. 
The court will say that if the only evidence is the paper record of the
actual contracts, the court believes at present (and subject to change) that
the defense has the better of it: the license agreements are between the
entities alone and the non-compete is between the individuals.  But having said that, it is not clear to the
court that the damages for the breach of one would not encompass the damages
for the breach of the other that it caused. 
In other words, if by virtue of violating the non-compete, Reinstein caused
Farr to breach the license agreement, it is not clear to the court that one
measure of damages that the individual plaintiffs could recover from Reinstein
is the loss to them of the benefit of the income they would have received had
the license agreement not been breached. 
And the same is at least potentially true vice-versa.  And, of course, all of that is without any
consideration as to whether there are alter ego problems.  (The court believes that alter ego was
alleged in the operative complaint and cross-complaint.)
 
Accordingly, and while the court knows it is not optimal,
the court’s view is that there should be jury instructions that allow the jury
to determine this question.  Whether
those instructions will be given will depend on how the evidence comes in.
 
The court reiterates that it will hold the parties to the 25
hour per side limit on evidence and it will ask, once again, for the parties’
trial estimate—last chance.  That trial
estimate will be given to the jury. 
Absent some unforeseen and unusual circumstance, the court will strictly
enforce that estimate.  Of course,
sometimes the truly unexpected occurs, and if so, the court will take due
account of it.
 
The court has a trial starting Monday of next week.  It will go most of the week.  The parties should check back to see what day
this trial will start.  The court kind of
suspects that the answer is going to be that the venire will be called on
Monday, May 13, 2024, at 10:30.  The
court understands that the parties have waived mini-openings.  The court does not anticipate any future
filings between now and the start of trial.
 