  Case Number:  22SMCV01060    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for a jury trial.  However, today the court plans on going over
issues that ought to be resolved before a venire is called.  The court anticipates calling the venire
tomorrow at 10:30 am.
 
The biggest issue still to be resolved is defendant’s claim
that the whole case is barred by the statute of limitations.  This case was filed in 2022, but the invoice
was sent in 2018.  Defendant contends
that because this is a cause of action based on a contract not in writing, the
statute of limitations is two years.  If
that is the case, the action would appear to be time-barred.  On the other hand, plaintiff contends that
the statute of limitations is four years, in which case the complaint is
timely.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 339(1) provides that there
is a two year statute of limitations for an “action upon a contract, obligation
or liability not founded upon an instrument in writing, except as provided in
Section 2725 of the Commercial Code . . .” 
Plaintiff has a series of arguments. 
The first is that this case is governed by Commercial Code section 2725,
which has a four year statute of limitations. 
That statute, in turn, provides that “An action for breach of any
contract for sale must be commenced within four years after the cause of action
has accrued.”  Plaintiff asserts that
this is just such a contract.  According
to plaintiff, defendant wanted to buy, and plaintiff sold, certain goods.  Defendant did not pay for them, and thus,
plaintiff contends, this is an action for breach of a contract for sale.  Unlike the Code of Civil Procedure, the
Commercial Code does not differentiate (for statute of limitations purposes)
between a written contract and another type of contract, like an oral contract.  On its face, then, it would appear that the
action is governed by a four year statute and is therefore timely.  The court notes that the sale of future goods
constitutes the sale of goods under the Commercial Code.  Although plaintiff contends that he has
raised the Commercial Code with the defense for a long time, defendant’s trial
brief contends the expiration of the statute of limitations but does not
discuss the Commercial Code.  The court
will inquire of the defense on this point. 
In the demurrer, defendant suggested that the Commercial Code will not
apply because the contract is be barred by the Statute of Frauds.  The Commercial Code’s Statute of Frauds bars
enforcement of a contract for the sale of goods over $500 unless there is a
writing “signed by” the party accused of the breach.  In overruling the demurrer, the court
suggested that the issue would be best tested by way of summary judgment.  Unfortunately, defendant elected not to bring
a motion for summary judgment.  The issue
is the interplay between the Statute of Frauds and the Statute of
Limitations.  The Statute of Frauds in
the Commercial Code goes to whether or not there is an enforceable contract at
all.  If there is, then the statute
of limitations governs how much time can pass before a suit can be filed.  The Statute of Frauds has a number of
exceptions, and an enforceable contract can be formed by a course of dealing or
performance.  The court believes that
enough has been alleged here to get past the former question—whether there is a
contract or not—and present the issue to a jury.  If, as is alleged, defendant came to the shop
and ordered the items, and if plaintiff shipped the items to the defendant
along with the invoice, and if the defendant received the items and kept them,
the court is satisfied that there is enough to go to the jury.
 
Plaintiff also contends that this is a cause of action for
breach of a written contract, which has a four year statute.  The court is not so sure of that.  The only writing that the court sees is an
unsigned invoice.  Generally speaking, an
invoice is not a contract.  There are
exceptions, such as when the invoice is approved or signed by the receiving party
(as was the case for the invoice plaintiff attaches to its trial brief).  But just because one invoice is signed does
not mean that all invoices are deemed signed. 
Rather, an unsigned invoice is a demand for payment, but it is not a
contract.  It could reflect a contract,
or it could be evidence of an implied in fact contract.  But it, standing alone, it itself is not a
contract.  That does not mean that an
invoice is without force; it only means that the invoice will not bring the
cause of action into the written contract statute of limitations.  The same is true of plaintiff’s other related
arguments.  Things like a course of
dealing support an implied in fact theory, but that does not make the course of
dealing a written contract.  (The
parties’ discussion of C9 Ventures v. SVC-West, L.P. (2012) 202
Cal.App.4th 1483, is not really dispositive. 
That case involved an oral agreement whereby one party leased helium
tanks to the other.  The lessor sent the
lessee an invoice that the lessee did not sign. 
On the back of the invoice was an indemnification provision.  It was the indemnification provision that the
lessor was attempting to enforce in that case.  The Court of Appeal held that the unsigned
invoice was not sufficient to constitute a contract that incorporated the
additional terms that were contained thereon but that had not been discussed by
the parties.  This case is not that.  This is a contract for the sale of goods, not
a lease of goods, a distinction that the C9 Court found important.  Further, the issue here is not whether some
additional term on the back of the invoice is part of the contract; it is
whether the contract is written or not.)
 
The court does not address the common counts here.  The likelihood is that they will stand or
fall with the contract cause of action. 
Realistically, as the court understands it, the dispute between the
parties is whether (a) defendant actually ordered the goods in the invoice and
(b) whether defendant actually received them. 
It does not appear that defendant is arguing that even if he received
them and kept them, he would not owe plaintiff money (at least putting the
statute of limitations aside).  
 
The argument that the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing would save the case is also unavailing.  If the contract is in writing or is within
the Commercial Code’s four year statute, then this cause of action is
unnecessary.  If it is not, the implied
covenant will not save the case.
 
Finally, the discovery rule will not help.  Generally, contract causes of action are not
as easily tolled as torts.  While there
is some application of the discovery rule even to contracts, it will not apply
here.  The invoice was dated July
2018.  It was not paid.  The court could give a little bit of
flexibility to the statute—it is hardly clear that the defendant would not pay
the invoice two weeks after the goods were allegedly delivered.  But the court would have to believe that
plaintiff was not even on inquiry notice for over a year.  That seems unlikely.
 
In short, the court will inquire of the defense as to why
the Commercial Code’s four year statute would not apply here if there is a
contract.  If it does, then the case
would go forward.
 
A second question is whether witness Berry will
testify.  The court has received
plaintiff’s declaration of diligence and Berry’s declaration.  Plaintiff’s declaration of diligence is
hardly overwhelming, but it does suggest that plaintiff had made efforts to
identify her with greater precision and was able to do so only very shortly
before disclosing her to defendant rather than waiting in ambush.  Her declaration states that she had met
defendant only once—in June 2018.  She
stated that she recalls that he was a nice person and that she and Anwar went
to plaintiff’s showroom with two other people on that day.  She recalls that they were there to buy
things for an upcoming wedding, but that they left without taking anything with
them.  They were there for about 20-30
minutes in total.  Ms. Berry further
stated that she believed that the parties were friends because on that day,
“we” met plaintiff in the hotel restaurant and they acted like friends
(suggesting that she was with defendant, not that she came up independently to
plaintiff).  Finally, Ms. Berry declared
that she heard that some things were “possibly going to be shipped to
[defendant] or that Mr. Anwar would return at a later date for his items.”
 
The court is not sure whether or not this will be key
evidence.  What Ms. Berry heard hardly
seems to be definitive, but she was clear on going to the shop.  If defendant testifies that he was not in the
shop during this time frame—June 2018—or thereabouts, then Ms. Berry could be
an important witness.  If defendant never
went to the shop to discuss or buy wedding things, then it would be far less
likely that he received any such goods or ordered them.  On the other hand, if defendant agrees that
he was in the shop, then the court is not certain as to whether Ms. Berry
really adds much.  However, for safety’s
sake, the court will ORDER that if defendant wishes to depose Ms. Berry, she
will be deposed forthwith (meaning within the next 48 hours).  Whether she will testify will depend on how
the other facts come in and how important her testimony would actually be.
 
Beyond that, the court will go over any additional
materials.  The court believes that it
already ruled on MIL 1, and the above constitutes the ruling on MIL 2.
 
On the first day of trial, the parties will bring the
following to court: (1) BINDER 1 consisting of (a) the operative complaint; (b)
the operative answer; (c) the witness list; (d) the exhibit list; (e) the short
statement of the case; (f) plaintiff’s trial brief; (g) defendant’s trial
brief; (h) the jury instruction list—agreed, plaintiff’s proposed, and
defendant’s proposed (i) other FSC documents filed; (2) BINDER 2 consisting of
(a) agreed jury instructions as they will be read to the jury; (b) plaintiff’s
proposed jury instructions; (c) defendant’s proposed jury instructions; (d)
joint verdict form or, if there is no joint form, plaintiff’s proposal followed
by defendant’s proposal; (3) BINDER 3 (3 copies) consisting of the exhibits
tabbed by exhibit number with an index at the front; (4) BINDER 4 consisting of
the in limine motions by motion including the motion, opposition, reply,
and ruling; (5) two copies of each deposition transcript that might be used for
any purpose at trial.
 
The court also reiterates its court reporter policy.  The parties have three choices: (1) They can
retain a court reporter—the cost of which will be recoverable as a trial
cost—to transcribe the proceedings.  The
court notes that many parties do not use a court reporter for voir dire.  (2) They can meet and confer each day to
arrive at an agreed settled statement as to what transpired that day.  The meeting will be in person between lead
trial counsel and will last until the earlier of: (a) an agreement on the
settled statement or (b) 11:00 pm.  The
next morning at 8:30, the parties will submit either the agreed statement or a
red line of plaintiff’s version against defendant’s version.  On even calendar days, plaintiff will be
responsible for providing that document to the court; on odd calendar days,
defendant will be responsible.  (3) They
may waive the right to appeal.  The point
here is that if anyone wants to appeal and there is no Reporter’s Transcript,
then the parties will need to go through the settled statement process, but
they will do so months from now. 
Memories will have faded.  And to
the extent that the parties cannot agree, the court will have to settle the
statement, and, frankly, the court worries about doing so accurately as time
passes.  That is why it will need to be
done each day.  If the parties agree not
to appeal, then there will be no need for a settled statement, and the parties
need not go through that process. 
However, any such stipulation must be at the start of the case—before
voir dire begins—and it will be irrevocable.