  Case Number:  22TRCV01305    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DIANA
  ALEXANDER, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01305




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
WONDERGREEN,
  INC. DBA GREEN FARM MARKET GARDENA,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
16, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Diana Alexander
Responding Party:                  Defendant Wondergreen, Inc. dba
Green Farm Market Gardena
(1)  
Motion
for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Reopen Discovery
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
The
motion for leave to file a FAC is DENIED.
The
motion to reopen discovery is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On November 21, 2022, plaintiff
Diana Alexander filed a complaint against defendant Wondergreen, Inc. dba Green
Farm Market Gardena for negligence – premises liability. 
            On February 24, 2023, defendant
filed an answer.
            On March 11, 2024, the parties
stipulated and the Court entered an order to continue trial from March 27, 2024
to July 15, 2025.
            On July 5, 2024, the parties
stipulated and Court entered an order to continue trial to October 14,
2024.  The stipulation and order do not
include a discovery extension. 
            Trial is set for October 14, 2024
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Amend
CCP §473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
Reopen discovery
CCP §2024.050 states: “(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set.  This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.   
            (b) In exercising its discretion to
grant or deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter
relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:  (1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery.  (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.  (4) The length of time that
has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for
the trial of the action.  
            (c) The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
DISCUSSION
            Amend
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend the complaint to add a claim for punitive damages.
The
complaint alleges that on December 1, 2020, plaintiff was lawfully on the
premises known to the public as Green Farm Market Gardena, when she was walking
with due care through a common area designated for pedestrian foot traffic to
meet her husband in the fish market, her left foot got caught on a lifted part
of a black carpet/mat, which was slippery and wet with fish-smelling water,
causing her to slip, trip, and fall onto her knees and brace herself with her
hands, resulting in serious injuries to her knee and wrist, as well as other
injuries to plaintiff’s person. 
Complaint, ¶8.  There were no
customer signs or other notifications advising customers that the black
carpet/mat was slippery or wet or that any hazardous or dangerous conditions
existed at or around the location that plaintiff fell.  At no point prior to plaintiff’s fall did she
observe the lifted portion of the black carpet/mat or that it was slippery and
wet.  Id., ¶9.
Plaintiff
argues that defendant has intentionally allowed the condition of the floors
within its store to deteriorate resulting in significant hazards that defendant
is well aware are certain to result in slip, trip, and falls incidents with
harm to others.  Plaintiff asserts that
the condition of the flooring in defendant’s store is not the result of mere
negligence.  Rather, plaintiff contends,
defendant has known that its floors are hazardous but has taken no measures to
remedy or reduce the hazards.  Plaintiff
asserts that defendant’s director of operations testified that he had been
deposed in at least two other cases related to slip, trip, and fall incidents
within the store; an employee testified that she has completed at least ten
incident reports; and defendant has been sued at least three other times in the
past ten years for slip, trip, and fall injuries.  Plaintiff also contends that a few months
prior to plaintiff’s fall, defendant had been ordered by the County to
discontinue operation at the facility “at once” due to unsafe flooring.  Defendant’s deponents testified that either
they would fix the rolled-up corners of the mats or saw mats with the corners
rolled-up.  Further, they testified as to
plastic produce bags on the ground. 
Plaintiff also argues that there is evidence of defendant’s lack of
concern for safety because there was no safety training or any written policies
and procedures for inspecting rugs/runners. 
Plaintiff further contends that there was a failure to place caution
cones and that plaintiff found multiple hazardous conditions on the floor at
the site inspection on August 13, 2024.
In
opposition, defendant argues that the motion is procedurally and substantively
defective.  Defendant points out that the
motion was not served in compliance with the statutory service requirements
under CCP §§1005(b) and 1010.6 as the motion was served electronically on
August 23 for a hearing date of September 16; thus, the motion should have been
served no later than August 20.  Further,
defendant asserts, counsel’s declaration failed to comply with Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324(b) by omitting the mandatory attestations.  Defendant also argues that an amendment would
be futile because punitive damages are not recoverable in connection with
plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence and that plaintiff’s proposed
allegations do not support any malicious conduct by defendant.
 
 
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that plaintiff has
not complied with CRC Rule 3.1324(b) as there is no declaration from
plaintiff’s counsel stating (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.  Further, plaintiff
has been dilatory.  Although the case was
filed in November 2022, written discovery was not conducted until early in
2024, the depositions were taken in April 2024, and the store inspection was
not conducted until August 2024.  Trial
is set for October 14, 2024.
Moreover, amendment would be
futile.  Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  To state a claim for punitive damages under
Civil Code §3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the
defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud.  Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.
App. 4th 1033, 1042.  The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient.  Id. 
 
The Court in Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the
mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”   “’Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.”  Civil Code
§3294(c)(1). As the Court noted in College Hospital v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to require that,
where malice is based on a defendant’s conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s
rights, the conduct must be both despicable and willful.  The Court in College Hospital held
further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile,
or contemptible.”  Id. at 725
(citation omitted). 
“[I]t is not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.”  Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal. App.
4th 488, 496.  “Liability has been found
only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in
degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as
atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.”  Id. 

“Inasmuch as Civil Code section
3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,’ the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
Thus, punitive damages are not
recoverable under plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence.  Also, plaintiff’s proposed allegations do not
rise to the level of malice. 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.
 
Reopen discovery
Plaintiff requests that the Court
reopen discovery to obtain discovery of a surveillance video from plaintiff’s
inspection on August 13, 2024 and if her motion for leave to amend to add
punitive damages is granted, to also conduct discovery as to the condition of
defendant’s flooring prior to the subject fall, defendant’s safety policies and
procedures, and conduct taken by defendant to make the condition of its floors
safer.
Plaintiff contends that new facts
have recently been discovered by plaintiff during a site inspection of
defendant’s store on August 13, 2024 that are “directly relevant and highly
probative to” plaintiff’s alleged injuries. 
Plaintiff asserts that defendant disputes that there was a fold in the
mat that caused plaintiff to trip (on December 1, 2020) and that during the
site inspection (on August 13, 2024, over three and a half years later) plaintiff’s
counsel observed two customers trip over a hazardous mat in the same area that
plaintiff previously fell; thus, plaintiff seeks the security video of the
subject area and the customers tripping. 
Plaintiff acknowledges that if the Court grants leave to allege punitive
damages and discovery is reopened, trial would have to be continued and
suggests a continuance to October 2025.
In opposition, defendant contends
that the motion was not filed with statutory notice.  Defendant argues that plaintiff has not shown
good cause to reopen discovery or for discovery of the surveillance video of
other customers who allegedly tripped (but did not fall or were injured) on a
different floor mat and almost four years after the alleged incident.  Defendant argues that such evidence is
entirely irrelevant and inadmissible at trial.  Defendant also requests sanctions in the
amount of $1330 under CCP §2024.050.
The Court rules as follows:  Plaintiff has not met her burden of showing
good cause.  In considering the factors
under CCP §2024.050(b), plaintiff has not shown the necessity and reason for
the discovery of the video on the date of the inspection.  Further, plaintiff lacked diligence.  Plaintiff only provides the excuse of “scheduling
conflicts.”  The trial has already been
continued twice and the parties are well aware that the discovery cut-off was
not extended and was cut-off on June 14, 2024 and that the parties have had
ample opportunity to complete discovery. 
Further, the Court denies plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend to add a
claim for punitive damages; thus, there is no basis to reopen discovery.
The Court denies defendant’s
request for sanctions.
The motion is DENIED.
 
ORDER
The
motion for leave to file a FAC is DENIED.
The
motion to reopen discovery is DENIED.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.