 Case Number:  24TRCV00237    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
STEVEN
  HALL, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00237




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PERFORMANCE
  CONTRACTING, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
16, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Steven Hall
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Vacate and Set Aside Dismissal
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The dismissal of the entire action
without prejudice entered on July 17, 2024 is set aside and vacated.  Plaintiff is ordered to file the Doe
amendments within five days.  Defendant
Performance Contracting, Inc. is dismissed without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
On January 24, 2024, plaintiff
Steven Hall filed a complaint against Performance Contracting, Inc. for (1)
negligence and (2) premises liability.  
On February 28, 2024, plaintiff
filed a FAC alleging that the incident occurred on January 26, 2024 around 7:30
a.m. at terminal 3 at the Los Angeles International Airport when heavy metal
plates fell and struck plaintiff when he was working on a project at the
premises causing serious injury. 
On May 2, 2024, defendant filed a
notice of removal to federal court.
On July 17, 2024, the parties
stipulated to dismissing defendant Performance Contracting Inc. and the Court
entered an order dismissing the entire case without prejudice.  The stipulation states in part that the
parties have agreed to remand the case for all further proceedings to allow
plaintiff to add any unknown parties that may destroy federal jurisdiction.  It also states that the parties filed a joint
stipulation to dismiss without prejudice in federal court on July 12, 2024.
On July 25, 2024, the Court
received a remand from the U.S. District Court.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a . . .
dismissal . . . taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the . . . dismissal . . . . was
taken. . . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or neglect. . . .” 
“[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION

            Under CCP §473(b), plaintiff
requests that the Court set aside and vacate the order dismissing the entire
action without prejudice.
            Plaintiff asserts that the dismissal
was due to a mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect on behalf of
plaintiff’s attorneys.  Plaintiff
explains that on July 17, 2024, the parties filed a joint stipulation to
dismiss defendant without prejudice, but that the parties did not agree to
dismiss the entire action.  The case was
dismissed without prejudice.  Plaintiff’s
counsel was not aware that the dismissal had occurred until August 8, 2024,
after plaintiff had attempted to file four Doe amendments to add the parties he
believes are responsible for the injuries caused by the incident.  See Mathew Russell decl.
The Court finds that plaintiff has
met his burden of showing that the dismissal was the result of counsel’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or neglect.  The stipulation filed on July 17, 2024
indicated that the parties had agreed to dismiss without prejudice defendant
Performance Contracting Inc.  As
defendant was the only defendant named, the entire action was dismissed
although plaintiff had intended to dismiss only Performance Contracting Inc.
and to file four Doe amendments.
The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER

            The motion is GRANTED.  
            The dismissal of the entire action
without prejudice entered on July 17, 2024 is set aside and vacated.  Plaintiff is ordered to file the Doe
amendments within five days.  Defendant
Performance Contracting Inc. is dismissed without prejudice.
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.