  Case Number:  20STCV45139    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that he suffered retaliation for voicing safety concerns at various
worksites involving the operation of heavy machinery.  
            Defendants
City of Los Angeles acting by and through Department of Water and Power move
for terminating sanctions, and to compel further responses to special
interrogatories, set one and requests for production of documents, set two, and
request imposition of monetary sanctions.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant
City of Los Angeles acting by and through Department of Water and Power’s
motion for terminating sanctions is placed OFF-CALENDAR as having been cancelled
by virtue of the Court’s August 16, 2024 minute order.
            The hearing on Defendant’s motions
to compel further responses to special interrogatories, set one and requests
for production of documents, set two, is CONTINUED to October 16, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. The parties are ordered to meet and confer. The Court expects the parties
to be able to informally resolve these motions. However, if the outstanding
disputes cannot be resolved, the parties are to file a joint separate statement
regarding outstanding disputes by October 4, 2024. The Court will reserve its
ruling on the request for monetary sanctions for the further hearing.  
ANALYSIS
Motion For
Terminating Sanctions
            Defendants City of Los
Angeles acting by and through Department of Water and Power move for
terminating sanctions against Plaintiff. As pointed out by Plaintiff, on August
16, 2024, at 11:00 AM, the Court issued a minute order which states as
follows in pertinent part at Page 1.
1. CRS RESERVATION OF DISCOVERY MOTIONS ARE PROHIBITED
a. Until and unless this order is modified or withdrawn, the parties in
this case are prohibited from using the CRS systems to reserve any motions
regarding discovery, and are required to use the procedure set forth below to
schedule motions. 
b. Any future discovery
motion hearing reservations for which the moving papers have not been filed
are hereby cancelled and ordered off calendar.
     (Bold emphasis and underlining added.)
            Thereafter, at 10:25 PM, Defendant
filed the motion for terminating sanctions. However, this was after the hearing
had been cancelled and ordered off-calendar by the Court. Defendant’s attempt
to limit the Court’s August 16, 2024 minute order to discovery motions which
required meet and confer requirements is without merit. The minute order did
not limit itself to motions which contain a meet and confer requirement but
rather applies to “[a]ny future discovery motion hearing reservations.” As such, the motion for
terminating sanctions is OFF-CALENDAR.  Any renewal of the motion must comply with the Court's order regarding the scheduling of discovery motions.
            
Motions To Compel
Further Responses To Special Interrogatories, Set One and Requests For
Production of Documents, Set Two
 
            As pointed out by Plaintiff in the
oppositions, Defendant did not engage in meet and confer efforts following the
April 22, 2024 IDC, at which the Court ordered: “The parties are directed to
continue to meet and confer and may file a stipulation to request another
informal discovery conference if desired.”
 
            The Declaration of Ahllam H. Berri
reflects that, after the April 22, 2024 IDC, Defendant did not engage in any
further meet and confer efforts as ordered by the Court, but simply filed these
motions to compel further responses on August 1, 2024 because Plaintiff never
supplemented responses (See Declaration of Ahllam H. Berri, ¶ 11.)
 
            The hearing on the motions to compel
further responses to special interrogatories, set one and requests for
production of documents, set two, is CONTINUED to October 16, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
The parties are ordered to meet and confer. The Court expects the parties to be
able to informally resolve these motions. However, if the outstanding disputes
cannot be resolved, the parties are to file a joint separate statement
regarding outstanding disputes by October 4, 2024.
 
The Court will reserve its ruling on the request for monetary sanctions
for the further hearing.
 
 