 Case Number:  22STCV11074    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  TAMIKA YOUNGBLOOD, Plaintiff;  vs. DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILY SERVICES, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV11074  Hearing Date:  September 27, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDERFACTUAL BACKGROUND   This is an action for race discrimination, disability discrimination, harassment, retaliation, failure to take corrective action, denial of reasonable accommodations, failure to engage in the interactive process, intentional infliction of emotional distress, failure to pay overtime wages, failure to prove and rest breaks, failure to provide itemized statement to employee, violation of labor code section 206.5, and violation of CFRA/FMLA leave rights. Plaintiff Tamika Youngblood alleges that she was employed with the County of Los Angeles (“County” erroneously sued as Department of Children and Family Services). (FAC ¶14.) In 2016, Plaintiff was assigned to DCFS’s Santa Fe Springs office. (FAC ¶15.) Defendant Lopez was Plaintiff’s supervisor at the Santa Fe Springs office. (FAC ¶18.) While Plaintiff was on FMLA disability leave, Lopez harassed Plaintiff by contacting her during her leave and complaining about her absence. (FAC ¶20.) Lopez demanded that Plaintiff take a demotion and threatened her. (FAC ¶21.) Lopez treated Plaintiff differently from other employees by making racially derogatory comments about African-American women to Plaintiff, changing Plaintiff’s work schedule because of her race, requiring Plaintiff alone to check in when she arrived or took breaks, refusing to give Plaintiff a full set of keys, and requiring Plaintiff to prove a relative of hers had died, among others. (FAC ¶¶22-29.) Lopez fabricated disciplinary problems about Plaintiff and attempted to have employees sign off on fabricated incident statements about her. (FAC ¶30.) Lopez informed Plaintiff that an employee from human resources wanted to speak with her. (FAC ¶30.) However, the human resources employee turned out to be a conflict resolution specialist pertaining to disciplinary action. (FAC ¶30.) Lopez demanded that Plaintiff not get a lawyer. (FAC ¶30.) Plaintiff received a Notice of Intent to Suspend. (FAC ¶30.) After Plaintiff filed discrimination complaints against Lopez and another supervisor, Defendant Perez, refused to let Plaintiff return to work. (FAC ¶32.) Despite County allowing most employees to work from home at the time, Plaintiff’s request to telework 2-3 days a week, Plaintiff’s request for a reasonable accommodation was denied. (FAC ¶32.)PROCEDURAL HISTORY On April 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against Defendants County, Raul Perez, and Jennifer Lopez.On September 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.On March 30, 2023, Defendants answered.On August 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for a protective order.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves for a protective order to preclude the discovery of Plaintiff’s medical records.Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020 courts “shall limit the scope of discovery if” the court “determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” A “court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Id.)California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.¿ In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”¿  “[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.”¿ (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)¿ “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) The court, for good cause shown, may make any order “that justice requires” to protect any party from “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) If “good cause” is shown, the court can exercise its discretionary power to limit discovery.  (See In re Providian Credit Card Cases (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 292, 298-99.) The granting or denial of relief lies within the sound discretion of the judge. (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 379-81 (overruled on other grounds pertaining to attorney work product privilege).) The concept of good cause requires a showing of specific facts demonstrating undue burden, unwarranted embarrassment, oppression, or unwarranted annoyance, and justifying the relief sought. (See Goodman v. Citizens Life & Casualty Ins. Co. (1967) 253 Cal.App.3d 807, 819.) Unlike other discovery orders, a protective order may be granted simply on the court’s determination that justice so requires. (Greyhound Corp., 56 Cal.2d at pp. 379-81.)Here, on July 26, 2023, Defendant served five deposition subpoenas on (1) Global Psychological Services, (2) KFH/SCPMG – two subpoenas for medical records and billing, (3) John Fisher, D.C., and (4) Kaiser Permanente. The deposition subpoenas seek the following:1. Global Psychological Services: Medical Records: All documents, medical records, office records, emergency room records, sign-in sheets, radiological reports, medical tests, inpatient and outpatient charts and records.Radiology: All x-rays, radiological reports, and test results.Billing Records: All itemized statements of billing charges, invoices, records of adjustments and/or write-offs, payments and credits, explanation of benefits, balances due and insurance records.All of the above pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of Tamika Youngblood…from 1/1/2011 to, and including, the present. 2. KFH/SCPMG:Medical Records: All documents, medical records, office records, emergency room records, sing-in sheets, radiological reports, medical tests, inpatient and outpatient charts and records pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of Tamika Youngblood…from 1/1/2011 to, and including, the present. Specifically to include all of the aforementioned from Dr. Kevin Masahiro Shiramizu and Dr. Jose Luis Gomez.Billing Records: All itemized statements of billing charges, invoices, records of adjustments and/or write-offs, payments and credits, explanation of benefits, balances due and insurance records… pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of Tamika Youngblood…from 1/1/2011 to, and including, the present.3. John L. Fisher, D.C.:Medical Records: All documents, medical records, office records, emergency room records, sing-in sheets, radiological reports, medical tests, inpatient and outpatient charts and records.Radiology: All x-rays, radiological reports and test results.Billing Records: All itemized statements of billing charges, invoices, records of adjustments and/or write-offs, payments and credits, explanation of benefits, balances due and insurance records.All of the above pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of Tamika Youngblood…from 1/1/2011 to, and including, the present. 4. Kaiser Permanente RadiologyRadiology: All x-rays/digital imaging pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of Tamika Youngblood…from 1/1/2011 to, and including, the present.Plaintiff argues that County’s subpoenas violate her privacy rights because she has not placed her medical history at issue in this case.Even when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the fundamental right of privacy.  . . . [I]f an intrusion on the right of privacy is deemed necessary under the circumstances of a particular case, any such intrusion should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve its objective . . . [meaning] the least intrusive means to satisfy the interest.  Mere convenience of means or cost will not satisfy that test for that would make expediency and not the compelling interest the overriding value.  (Lantz v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854-1855 [internal quotes and citations omitted].)When evaluating invasions of the right to privacy in discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish “(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865.) A responding party may prevail by negating any of these three elements “or by pleading and proving, as an affirmative defense, that the invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively furthers one or more countervailing interests.” (Id.) “[T]he party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533.) A court then balances these competing considerations. (Id.) As guidance in balancing these competing considerations, it should be noted, “[o]nly obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Id.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and protective measures.” (Id.)Plaintiff has a legally protected privacy interest in her medical records. (See Porten v. University of San Francisco (1976) 64 Cal. App. 3d 825, 832; see, e.g., Heda v. Superior Court (1990) 225 Cal. App. 3d 525, 528.) However, “medical…records relating to the claimed injuries are” generally “discoverable.” (Britt v. Sup. Ct. (San Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 862-864.) Though Plaintiff’s privacy interests in her medical records are reduced by Plaintiff putting her respective medical conditions at issue in this action, medical records based on unclaimed injuries are not discoverable without a greater showing being made. (See Heller v. Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 43.)Here, although Plaintiff alleges that she has not placed her medical condition at issue, her Complaint states that she suffered psychological injuries, emotional distress, humiliation, and physical pain as a result of Defendants’ conduct. (FAC ¶¶34, 46. 56, 69, 81, 86, 97, 110, 113, 114.) The allegations of the FAC place both Plaintiff’s physical and mental condition at issue because she alleges both psychological and physical injuries. County thus has a legitimate interest in seeking medical records related to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants discriminated against her because she suffered from a disability. (FAC ¶¶50-53.) Specifically, Plaintiff alleges she underwent surgery for retinal detachments which impaired her vision. (FAC ¶50.) To establish a prima facie case of disability discrimination, the employee must demonstrate that “he or she (1) suffered from a disability or was regarded as suffering from a disability; (2) could perform the essential duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because of the disability or perceived disability.” (Wills v. Superior Court¿(2011) 195¿Cal.App.4th¿143, 159-160.) Here, information about whether Plaintiff suffered from a disability is directly relevant to an element of her cause of action for disability discrimination. Medical records about her disability are thus discoverable. Therefore, County has a legitimate interest in seeking these records that warrants disclosure of medical records related to Plaintiff’s disability.Each subpoena is also properly limited to records from 2011 through the present. As County points out, records from before Plaintiff began working at the Santa Fe Springs office are relevant because the records would show whether Plaintiff’s alleged injuries were caused by Defendants’ conduct or were preexisting. Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order is denied.DATED: September 27, 2023 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 