 Case Number:  21STCV01719    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78CHRISTOPHER LOPEZ JR., a minor by and through his guardian ad litem, RENEE LEMOS,Plaintiff,          vs.LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,Defendants. Case No.: 21STCV01719 Hearing Date: September 27, 2023 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for negligence, premises liability, negligent supervision, negligent infliction of emotional distress, public nuisance, and professional negligence. Plaintiffs Renee Lemos and Christopher Lopez Jr., by and through his guardian ad litem Rene Lemos, allege that in December 2019, the Office of Environmental Health and Safety notified Plaintiffs that the drinking water coming from water fountains at Lopez’s school contained unsafe levels of lead. (SAC ¶¶21-24.) On December 12, 2019, Lopez began complaining of a stomachache. (SAC ¶25.) On December 15, 2019, Lemos returned home and discovered Lopez was on the couch, cold to the touch, and vomiting through the sides of his mouth. (SAC ¶27.) When paramedics to Lopez to the emergency room at Olive View-UCLA Medical Center (“Olive View”), security guards demanded that Lopez be searched for needles or weapons, delaying his treatment at the hospital. (SAC ¶29.) Despite knowing Lopez suffered from anxiety, the CT technician allowed Lopez to lie in the scanner for over 10 minutes without running the scan. (SAC ¶30.) Lopez became cold and began to vomit through the sides of his mouth. (SAC ¶¶31-32.) The CT technician threw a towel at Lemos and instructed her to clean up Lopez’s vomit. (SAC ¶32.) Lopez then began to foam at the mouth, turned blue, and lost his pulse. (SAC ¶32.) Rather than calling a nurse or performing CPR, the technician told Lemos to find a nurse and notify them of a code blue. (SAC ¶32.) Lemos went to the hallways screaming code blue and that her son was not breathing. (SAC ¶33.) A group of nurses fan to the CT room to administer CPR to Lopez. (SAC ¶33.) Lopez was airlifted to LAC-USC Medical Center, where doctors discovered that Lopez had appendicitis and that his appendix had ruptured, causing him to go into septic shock and cardiac arrest. (SAC ¶34.) Plaintiffs allege that Lopez’s appendicitis was directly caused by the lead-contaminated water at Lopez’s school. (SAC ¶35.) Additionally, Plaintiffs allege that County failed to ensure that its CT technicians knew how to perform CPR and failed to use reasonable care in responding to a cardiac arrest. (SAC ¶62.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege that County’s employees failed to notice Lopez was in distress during his CT scan, failed to immediately render aid when Plaintiff went into cardiac arrest, and failed to have policies and procedures in place for when a patient undergoing CT scans goes into cardiac arrest. (SAC ¶67.)PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn January 15, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), the City of Los Angeles (“City”), and the County of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as itself and Olive View-UCLA Medical Center (“County”)).On July 21, 2021, Defendants the State of California and the City of Los Angeles were dismissed from this action. On July 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.On November 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC removed Renee Lemos’s claims against all Defendants.On December 15, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed Defendant LAUSD from this action.On July 7, 2023, County filed the instant motion for summary judgment.LEGAL STANDARDThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).)A summary adjudication cannot be considered “unless the party bringing the motion duly gives notice that summary adjudication is being sought…If a party desires adjudication of particular issues or subissues, that party must make its intentions clear in the motion...There is a sound reason for this rule:... the opposing party may have decided to raise only one triable issue of fact in order to defeat the motion, without intending to concede the other issues. It would be unfair to grant a summary adjudication order unless the opposing party was on notice that an issue-by- issue adjudication might be ordered if summary judgment was denied.” (Jimenez v. Protective Life Ins. Co. (1992) 8 Cal. App. 4th 528, 534.)DISCUSSIONDefendant the County of Los Angeles moves for summary judgment on the grounds that (1) County complied with the standard of care at all times and (2) to a reasonable degree of medical probability, no act or omission of County was a substantial factor in causing the minor Plaintiff’s injuries.Professional NegigenceThe elements of medical malpractice are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.”¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-702 (citations omitted).)¿“Both the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.”¿(Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467.)¿ Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿(Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿ Causation must be proven “within a reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.” Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402. “Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish a prima facie case.” (Id.) “There can be many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can produce an injury or disease.” (Id. at 403.) “A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a result of its action.” (Id.) Here, Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges that County’s staff breached their duty of care to Lopez because County’s employees failed to notice Lopez was in distress during his CT scan, failed to immediately render aid when Plaintiff went into cardiac arrest, and failed to have policies and procedures in place for when a patient undergoing CT scans goes into cardiac arrest.In support of its motion, County provides copies of Lopez’s medical records from Olive-View UCLA Medical Center and LAC + USC Medical Center, copies of Plaintiffs claims for damages sent to the County of Los Angeles Board of Supervisors, claim rejection letters, and Plaintiffs’ Complaint. (Khosravi Decl., Exhs. B, D, E, F, G.) County’s evidence shows that on December 12, 2019, Lopez began having abdominal pain and vomiting. (UMF No. 1.) However, Lopez’s parents attributed these symptoms to his baseline history of anxiety and vomiting on a daily basis. (UMF No.1.) Lopez’s family later made the decision to transport Lopez to Olive View and required an ambulance for transportation. (UMF No.2.) Lopez arrived at Olive view at 18:03 and was triaged immediately at 18:20. (UMF No.2.) Dr. Danielle Marie Ryba and Dr. Carmen Partida examined Lopez and noted he was answering simple questions, following commands, appeared mildly confused, and was diaphoretic. (UMF No. 4.) The doctors also noted Lopez had a rigid abdomen, diffuse tenderness, and his x-rays showed a double wall sign on his bowel wall which suggested free air. (UMF No. 4.) Dr. Partida ordered IV fluids, IV antibiotics, and a CT scan. (UMF No. 4.)At 19:55, Lopez was transferred to a CT scanner, where he became increasingly agitated. (UMF No. 5, Khosravi Decl., Exh. B, p. 35.) Lopez then vomited while supine, became hypoxic, and was found to be pulseless. (Id.) At 19:59, a code blue was called, and CPR was initiated immediately while Lopez was in the CT scanner. (Id.) Lopez was intubated at 20:02 and transferred to LAC-USC via helicopter at 20:10. (Id.)  County also provides the expert testimony of Dr. David Barcay, a licensed physician and current attending physician at the Emergency Department at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California. (Barcay Decl., ¶3.) Barcay testifies that after reviewing Lopez’s medical records that County’s staff complied with the standard of care. (Id., ¶¶6, 8.) Dr. Partida properly suspected perforated appendicitis and made efforts to obtain the appropriate labs and imaging. (Id.) Although the time between Lopez’s x-ray and CT scan was a little longer than ideal, Lopez was not showing signs that he would suddenly deteriorate, and the delay did not constitute a breach of the standard of care. (Id.) Once Lopez deteriorated, the code blue and resuscitative efforts were appropriate and in compliance with the standard of care because the code blue was called at 19:59 and proceeded according to standard American Heart Association guidelines. (Id., ¶9.) Lopez did not appear to be in imminent danger of cardiac or respiratory deterioration and did not require intubation prior to the CT scan. (Id., ¶19.) It is Barcay’s opinion to a degree of medical certainty that the Olive View providers did not cause or contribute to Lopez’s injury because his care was within the standard of care. (Id., ¶11.)Although Lopez’s records and Barcay’s testimony shows that some members of Olive View’s staff complied with the standard of care during Lopez’s admission and during his resuscitation, the records and expert testimony do not show whether the County’s employees’ conduct fell within the community standard of care during the CT scan. Plaintiff’s SAC alleges that during his CT scan, Lopez’s breathing became heavier, prompting the CT technician to call in nurses to check on Lopez, who asked Lemos why Lopez was so cold. (SAC ¶31.) Lopez began to vomit through the sides of his mouth. (SAC ¶¶31-32.) The CT technician threw a towel at Lemos and instructed her to clean up Lopez’s vomit. (SAC ¶32.) Lopez then began to foam at the mouth, turned blue, and lost his pulse. (SAC ¶32.) Rather than calling a nurse or performing CPR, the technician told Lemos to find a nurse and notify them of a code blue. (SAC ¶32.) County’s employees failed to notice Lopez was in distress during his CT scan, failed to immediately render aid when Plaintiff went into cardiac arrest, and failed to have policies and procedures in place for when a patient undergoing CT scans goes into cardiac arrest. (SAC ¶67.) Lopez’s records do not contain information about the CT technician’s conduct, nor does Barcay’s testimony demonstrate that County’s staff’s conduct during the CT scan fell within the standard of care. Although Barcay’s testimony shows other Olive View providers’ conduct fell within the standard of care before the CT scan and after Lopez suffered cardiac arrest, his testimony is insufficient to show that the County’s staff’s conduct during the scan fell within the standard of care because he relied solely on Lopez’s medical records, which do not detail the events of the CT scan, to form his opinion. There being no evidence of whether County’s employees present during Lopez’s CT scan engaged in conduct which fell within the community standard of care, County fails to meet its burden of showing that no triable issue of material fact remains over whether County’s employees’ conduct fell within the community standard of care. County also argues that Lopez’s injuries were not caused by Dr. Partida’s conduct. County relies on Barcay’s expert testimony, which states that Lopez’s injuries were caused by the nature of his medical condition. (Barcay Decl., ¶11.) The SAC does not allege that Dr. Partida’s conduct caused Lopez’s injuries. Rather, the SAC alleges that the members of staff present during Lopez’s CT scan caused his injuries. Again, the records and testimony above do not reflect the events of the CT scan, meaning there is no evidence showing whether County’s employees’ conduct caused Lopez’s injuries. County fails to meet its burden of showing whether, to a degree of medical probability, its employees’ conduct caused Lopez’s injuries.The burden does not shift to Plaintiff. County’s motion for summary judgment is denied.Negligent hiring County also moves for summary judgment on the grounds that there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether it was negligent in its employment of incompetent or unfit persons because its employees acted withing the standard of care.“[A]n employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.”  (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)  To establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs.  (See Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; see also Doe, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 1054.)  To be liable for negligent supervision and hiring, there must be a connection between the employment and injury.  (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1341.)  “Liability for negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.  (Id. at 1339.)  “The tort has development in California in factual settings where the plaintiff’s injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact between the plaintiff and the employee was generated by the employment relationship.”  (Id. at pp. 1339-1340.)  Here, County relies on Barcay’s expert testimony that its employees’ conduct fell within the standard of care, arguing that its employees were not incompetent or unfit. However, the SAC states that County failed to ensure its CT technicians knew how to perform CPR and failed to supervise its employees to respond to a cardiac arrest. (SAC ¶61.) Barcay and the records that he relied on do not mention the CT technician, whether the CT technician responded appropriately to Lopez’s cardiac arrest, or provide details as to the events of the CT scan. County provides no evidence of the CT technician’s training or fitness for his position. There being no evidence of whether the CT technician was trained or fit for his position, County fails to meet its burden of showing no triable issue of material fact remains over whether the CT technician was an unfit employee.The burden does not shift to Plaintiff. County’s motion for summary judgment is denied.CONCLUSIONDefendant the County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.DATED: September 27, 2023_________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court