  Case Number:  21STCV35450    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 



ADINA AVILA, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
 
 
 
            vs.
 
 
 
DANIEL CHAN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO: 21STCV35450
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER
 
Dept. B
8:30 a.m.
August 1, 2024



 
I.                  
BACKGROUND
 
On September 27, 2021, Plaintiffs
Adina Avila, Aaron Guerra, and Margarita Chavez (“Plaintiffs”) initiated this
action. 
On May 21,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the first amended complaint (“FAC”), against Defendants Carolyn Thao Nguyen as Trustee of the Nguyen Huynh
Carolyn Trust dated October 11, 20 I 8 and Carolyn Nguyen (“Nguyen”), Daniel
Chan, Chanchenda Hou, Chanvachana Hou (“Chan Defendants”), and Doe Attacker, alleging causes of action for: (1) General
Negligence; (2) Intentional Tort (against Doe Attacker only); (3) battery
(against Doe Attacker only); (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(against Doe Attacker only); (5) Negligent Contact (against Doe Attacker only);
and (6) Premises Liability.
The FAC
alleges that on October 29, 2019, Plaintiffs were present at property, owned by
Nguyen and rented to the Chan Defendants, and that gang members Doe Attacker
and Does 3 to 20, jumped the short wall, and accessed the premises through a
back alley, pulled out a gun and started shooting into the crowd of invitees,
including Plaintiffs, resulting in Plaintiffs being shot several times.
            The
FAC further alleges that Nguyen knew of local gang activity in the surrounding area and failed to properly prevent
such activity from affecting reasonably foreseeable Plaintiffs, such as
Plaintiffs herein, from being injured by such conduct. 
The FAC further alleges
that Plaintiffs relied on Defendants to provide some type of sufficient,
adequate and well-trained security guards, bouncers, patrolmen or management
presence to monitor, prevent, discourage or deter and/or not engage in wrongful
acts or violence at or near the premises. 
On June 20, 2024, Nguyen (hereafter “Defendants”) filed
this demurrer. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On July 25, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply.
 
II.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A
“demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments
pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty, Code of Civil Procedure
§430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so
bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine
what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
III.            
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
demur to the causes of action for negligence and premises liability, arguing
they fail to state sufficient facts and are uncertain. Defendants argue that
they owe no duty to provide security guards because Plaintiffs have not
properly alleged specific prior acts which would make the attack on Plaintiffs
highly foreseeable. Second, Defendants argue the FAC is confusing and
contradictory, and it combines all Defendants together, making it uncertain.
“The elements
of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal
duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as
the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) The elements of negligence and premises liability are the
same: duty, breach, causation and damages.  (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “The first element, duty, may be imposed
by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special
relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) 
“[W]hile negligence is ordinarily a
question of fact, the existence of a duty is generally a question of law that
may be addressed by demurrer. (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
1088, 1096.) Whether one owes a duty to another must be decided on a
case-by-case basis. (Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40,
46.) Every case is governed by the rule of general application that all persons
are required to use ordinary care to prevent others from being harmed as a
result of their conduct. (Id.)
 
An actor whose conduct has not
created a risk of physical or emotional harm to another has no duty of care to
the other. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)
Generally, one owes no duty to control the conduct of another, nor to warn
those endangered by such conduct unless an exception applies. (Id.) One
exception is when there is a special relationship. A person may have an affirmative
duty to protect the victim of another’s harm if that person has a special
relationship with the victim or the person who created the harm. (Regents of
University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619.) A
special relationship is one that would give a victim a right to expect
protection, such as parent-child relationships, common carrier-passenger
relationships, and innkeeper-guest relationships. (Id at p. 620.) 
 
In cases involving third parties,
businesses (because they
generally stand in a special relationship with their tenants, patrons, or
invitees) have an affirmative duty to take reasonable steps to
secure their premises, as well as adjacent common areas within their control,
against reasonably foreseeable criminal acts of third parties. (Delgado
v. Trax Bar & Grill, 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.) While
“the modern landlord has a duty to take reasonable precautions against
foreseeable criminal acts, courts have been careful to avoid imposing standards
of conduct which would effectively hold the landlord liable for all crimes
committed on the premises.”  (Resenbaum v. Security Pacific Corp. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th
1084, 1095.)  Recent decisions “have linked the level of security the
landlord must provide to the degree of foreseeability of the harm.”  (Ibid.) 
The foreseeability of harm determines the scope of a landowner’s duty, and
“[t]he more certain the likelihood of harm, the higher the burden a court will
impose on a landlord to prevent it.”  (Vasquez, supra, 118
Cal.App.4th 269, 285.)  “[T]he requisite degree of foreseeability
rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of
violent crime on the landowner’s premises.”  (Delgado v. Trax Bar &
Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 238. 
 
            First,
Defendants argue that there is no special relationship between the landlord and
the tenant’s invitee. However, the court does not see a distinction between a
landlord and another business owner such as a restaurant owner, who does stand
in a special relationship with an invitee. Further, Defendant fails to provide
any such authority which states a landlord does not owe a duty to an invitee.
As such, without any authority, the court rejects this argument. 
            Defendants also argue that
Defendants, as the property owners and landlords of the residential
tenants, were presumably not in possession and control of the residential
property at the time of the incident. However, the FAC does not contain any
facts regarding whether Defendants were in possession and control over the
property. This argument would be more appropriate for a motion for summary
judgment, rather than demurrer.
            Next, Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs have alleged insufficient facts as to whether there was a high
degree of foreseeability here of the criminal acts. Plaintiffs only allege
“defendants and each of them, knew or should have known of prior similar and/or
identical criminal, wrongful or tortious acts that occurred at or near their
premises like those that occurred to plaintiffs.” (FAC, pg. 7.) The court
agrees. Here, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants owed them a duty to protect,
and that Defendants should have had security, or should have erected adequate
barriers and/or fencing. A heightened foreseeability is required “in
circumstances in which the burden of preventing future harm caused by third
party criminal conduct is great or onerous” (i.e. where a plaintiff asserts a
defendant had a legal duty to provide security guards, bright lighting,
activate and monitor security cameras, provide periodic “walk-throughs” by
existing personnel, or provide stronger fencing).  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, supra,
36 Cal.4th at 243.)  Heightened
foreseeability is “shown by prior similar criminal incidents or other
indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in
that location.”  (Id.)   Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants should have had security, or better fencing, which are onerous
burdens, but only allege prior similar criminal incidents at or near the same
location in very general terms.  Further,
alleging that the area had known gang activity is not enough. There must be
allegations of prior similar criminal incidents, such as another shooting, on
or near the premises. 
            Based on the above analysis, the
demurrer to the causes of action for negligence and premises liability is
sustained. However, because it is possible to successfully amend the pleadings,
the court will allow leave to amend.
As for the
special demurrer for uncertainty, while in some portions of the FAC Plaintiffs
do combine all Defendants together, it is not uncertain, because it is clear that
these Defendants had a duty to protect Plaintiffs as the landlord of the
premises. Any further clarification can be provided in discovery. 
IV.            
CONCLUSION 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend.
Defendants to give notice.
 
DATED: August 1, 2024
 
 
_____________________
Karen Moskowitz
Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 