  Case Number:  21STCV43304    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED unless Plaintiff can offer an adequate explanation as to how Xiang’s
negotiations have anything to do with Tai Zong assigning the 2018 lease to
Wagyu House in order for the Court to allow Plaintiffs to amend their complaint
as to the fraud and UCL causes of action. In that case, Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication will be granted in part. Summary adjudication will be
granted as to the first, second, fifth and sixth causes of action, but denied
as to the third for fraud and fourth under the UCL.
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests judicial notice of the (1)
Statewide Public Health Order dated July 13, 2020 from the California
Department of Public Health; (2) Order of the Health Officer, County of Los
Angeles Department of Public Health, “Protocol for Restaurants: Appendix I
(Effective as of 12:01 a.m. on Thursday, May 6, 2021” revised 5/5/2021; (3)
Complaint in this case; and (4) Court’s order dated February 28, 2022 granting,
in part, Cooper’s special motion to strike under CCP 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP motion)
in this action. 
The request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(d).
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
A.      Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendant’s Evidence:
 
a.       The
following objections are OVERRRULED: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13
b.      The
following objections are SUSTAINED: 9 (the letter only), 11 (the letter only)
 
B.      Defendant’s
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence:
a.       The
following objections are OVERRRULED: 1-4
b.      The
following objections are SUSTAINED: n/a
 
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001)
25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal. App.
4th 1110, 1119.)¿ 
¿ 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi¿v. Centro Medico¿Urgente¿Medical Center¿(2008)
159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.) 
¿ 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”¿(Avivi, 159 Cal. App.
4th at 467; CCP §437c(c).)¿ 
 
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action. (Code of Civ.
Proc. 437c(f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication proceeds in all procedural
aspects as a motion for summary judgment. (Ibid.) 
Discussion
Defendant moves for summary judgment or
adjudication.
In 2011, Plaintiffs (tenants) and America
West Investment, Inc. (landlord) entered into a lease for commercial space
located at 18588 E. Gale Ave., City of Industry, CA (the “Premises”) for the
purpose of opening a restaurant named “Jazz Cat.” (UF 1.) In 2014, Defendant
purchased the Premises from America West Investment, Inc. and became the
landlord. (Id.)
The lease requires Jazz Cat to be open
daily between specified hours, including during lunch. Under the heading
“Continuous Operation,” it states: “[a]t a minimum, [Plaintiffs] shall keep the
Premises continuously open for business Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.” (UF 2.) 
The lease also contains a clause in
paragraph 1.10 limiting Cooper’s ability to lease space to new restaurants
whose “agreed use is the same and menu is similar” to Jazz Cat’s. However, it applies
only “provided that the Lessee has not been under default of any of the
lease provisions.” (UF 3) (emphasis added). 
The lease states: “A ‘Default’ is defined
as a failure by the Lessee to comply with or perform any of the terms,
covenants, conditions or Rules and Regulations under this Lease.” No cure
period is required to run for a default (as opposed to a “Breach”). (Diau Decl.
¶ 3, Ex. 1 at ¶ 13.1, 13.1(e).) 
In June 2018, Tai Zong Restaurant
Group LLC signed a lease with Cooper. (UF 5.) This new tenant planned to open a
restaurant named “Spice World” (or “Xiang Hot Pot”). (UF 6.) The restaurant was
supposed to open in 2019 after the anticipated build-out of the space, and the
new tenant made a significant investment to build it out. (Diau Decl. ¶ 5.) 
In June 2019, Plaintiff Vivian
Chung-Yan Liu approached Defendant Cooper about extending Plaintiffs’ lease,
even though nearly two years remained on the lease. (Id. ¶ 6; Ex. 3.)
The lease was extended by way of amendment in August 2019. (UF 7; Diau Decl. ¶
6; Ex. 3.) Shortly after the extension was confirmed, Plaintiffs began to
complain about the anticipated Spice World restaurant, arguing its opening
would violate their lease. (Diau Decl. ¶ 7.) Tai Zong Restaurant Group LLC
never opened a restaurant. (UF 8.) 
I.                   
First and Second Causes of Action for
Breach of Lease and Specific Performance
Defendant moves for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiffs’ contract-based causes of action. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
Cooper’s leasing of space to the tenant operating Wagyu House and the opening
of the restaurant constitutes a breach of the “non-compete provision” in
paragraph 1.10 of Plaintiffs’ lease. Defendant argues the claim fails as a
matter of law for two independent, but related reasons: (1) the express
condition precedent to any “exclusive use” obligation has not been satisfied
due to Plaintiffs’ having been in default under the lease; and (2) Plaintiffs
have not performed all of their lease obligations as required to maintain a
claim for breach of contract 
The elements required for a breach of
contract cause of action are: (1) a contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for non-performance; (3) Defendant’s breach; and (4) damage to the
plaintiff.  (Acoustics, Inc. v. Trepte Constr. Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 887,
913.)  
“A
condition precedent is an act which must be performed or an uncertain event
which must happen before the promisor's duty of performance arises. (Civil Code, §§ 1434, 1436; Rest., Contracts,
§ 250.) Express conditions are stated in the contract and are determined by the
intention of the parties as disclosed by the agreement. (Schwab v. Bridge,
27 Cal.App. 204, 207, 149.)
Defendant presents evidence that
the express language of paragraph 1.10 states that the “non-compete clause”
applies only if “the Lessee has not been under default of any of
the lease provisions[.]” (Diau Decl. Ex. 1 at ¶ 1.10) (emphasis added). Defendant
contends this is a condition precedent. Paragraph 6.1 of the lease required
Jazz Cat to “keep the Premises continuously open for business Monday through
Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., and
Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.” (Diau Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1 at ¶ 6.1.) The
lease defines a “default” as “a failure by the Lessee to comply with or perform
any of the terms, covenants, conditions or Rules and Regulations under this
Lease.” (Id. at ¶ 13.1.) The “non-compete clause” in paragraph 1.10
specifically makes the lack of a “default” the condition precedent, rather than
the lack of a “breach” (which requires a cure period). (Id.) 
With the onset of the pandemic in
2020, Jazz Cat closed for lunch and dinner. (UF 9; Diau Decl. ¶ 9; Req. for
Jud. Not. (“RJN”) Ex. A.) By early May 2021, the government prohibition on
indoor dining had ended. (RJN Ex. B. See also Diau Decl. ¶ 12.) Yet Jazz
Cat failed to open for lunch in violation of paragraph 6.1(b) of the lease.
Indeed, throughout 2021, Jazz Cat stayed closed for lunch. (UF 10; Diau Decl. ¶¶
9-13, 16, 18-21, Exs. 6-8.) In August 2021—while Jazz Cat remained closed for
lunch—a new tenant, The X Pot Rowland Heights LLC, assumed Tai Zong Restaurant
Group LLC’s lease. (UF 11.) The X Pot Rowland Heights LLC opened a restaurant
named “Wagyu House” on November 12, 2021. (UF 12; Diau Decl. ¶ 17.) Jazz Cat
failed to open on all required days for lunch well into 2022. (Diau Decl. ¶¶
20-21, Ex. 8.) Defendant contends that there can be no dispute that Plaintiffs’
failure to be open daily for lunch in the second half of 2021 constituted a
default, and that Plaintiffs were in default in August 2021 when The X Pot
Rowland Heights LLC began its tenancy, as well as in late 2021, when Wagyu
House opened. 
Moreover, Defendant also argues
that Plaintiff failed to perform its lease obligations under the lease by
staying open for lunch, and as such, failed to meet an essential element, their
own performance of the contract.
The Court finds that Defendant has
met its burden on summary judgment or adjudication to show that Plaintiff had
defaulted under the parties’ lease agreement by routinely closing its
restaurant for lunch after the prohibition on indoor dining was lifted, and
thus, the non-compete clause did not apply to bar Defendant from leasing to X
Pot, due to failing to satisfy the condition precedent or because Plaintiffs
did not perform on the contract. The burden shifts to plaintiff to present a
triable issue of material fact.
To meet their burden, Plaintiffs
present evidence that “Jazz Cat was open for business during lunch hours in
2021. At times, lunch was take-out only and the restaurant dining room was not
open.” (Liu Decl., ¶ 4.) 
However, Plaintiffs have failed to
carry their burden on summary judgment or summary adjudication. Only stating
Jazz Cat was open for business during lunch hours in 2021 does not mean that
Jazz Cat was “continuously open for business Monday through Friday from 9:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., and Sunday from 10:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.” This statement can simply mean Jazz Cat was open for lunch
on certain dates in 2021. Defendant has presented evidence that its manager
routinely observed the restaurant was closed for lunch on weekdays in 2021
after the restrictions were lifted. Defendant also submitted photographs of a
gate barricading Plaintiffs' business during these specified lunch hours. This
evidence shows that the premises was not continuously open for business daily
during all required hours. Plaintiff’s evidence does not refute or conflict
with this evidence, as the photograph showing the business barricaded precludes
an inference that it was open for take-out on that day. Additionally, Plaintiff
does not state that on the day the photograph showing the business was
barricaded was taken, they were still open for take-out, but, for instance, a
door on the side of the restaurant was nevertheless open that was not captured
in the photograph.
Plaintiff also argues in
opposition that the declaration of Darren Diau is not based on personal
knowledge insofar as it concerns facts that pre-date Diau’s involvement with
Season’s Place in late 2018. He cannot have personal knowledge of matters that
predated his arrival, such as whether the 2011 lease attached to his
declaration is authentic. Plaintiff also argues nor does Diau’s review of
documents on the job substitute for personal knowledge. Diau purports
that his foundation in personal knowledge on the matters set forth in his
declaration depends, in part, on his review of business records. A review of
hearsay documents is not personal knowledge. (See Ah Tong v. Earl Fruit Co. (1896)
112 Cal. 679, 682.)
First, as Defendant points out,
Plaintiff attached the lease agreement it argues Diau has no personal knowledge
of to the complaint, and thus, cannot argue that it is not authenticated. The
agreement attached to the complaint contains the same clauses Defendant relies
on, and Defendant has also requested judicial notice of the complaint (which
was not necessary, as the court may look to the complaint to determine the
issues framed by the complaint in this motion). Moreover, Diau states he is
relying on a business record, which Plaintiff has made no objection to, and
thus, does not rely on hearsay.
Plaintiff next argues that as a
matter of contract interpretation, the Court should construe the non-compete
clause so as to avoid absurdity, harsh results, and the forfeiture of an
important right based on trivialities. Plaintiff argues the meaning of the
lower-case term “default” in the non-complete cause is at issue. Plaintiff
argues that the clause uses capital letters where it employs the defined terms,
“Lessor,” “Lessee,”
and “Lease,” but it does not use the defined term, “Default.” In contrast to
the other defined
terms, it uses the lower-case “default.” Plaintiffs submit that the departure
from convention is significant and indicates the parties’ intention to avoid
the severe impacts of employing “Default,” the defined term, which would render
the clause effectively meaningless. Plaintiff argues were the Court to construe
a “default” as a “Default,”
the exclusivity clause would be virtually meaningless. It is difficult to
imagine a ten- year lease in which no technical defaults ever occur. 
However, the Court cannot construe
the non-compete clause in this manner as there is no “technical” violation at
issue in this matter. (Bostrom v. Cty. of San Bernardino, 35 Cal.App.4th
1654, 1670 (1995) (“a commercial lease usually will require the lessee to
operate continuously during specified business hours.”).) 
Therefore, the Court finds that
Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden on summary judgment or summary
adjudication to present triable issues of fact as to whether they performed
under the contract, or whether they satisfied the condition precedent in the
contract for the non-compete clause to apply. As a result, Defendant is
entitled to summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for breach of
lease. As the second cause of action depends on the breach of contract cause of
action, it too fails. As such, Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as
to the cause of action for specific performance.
II.                 
Third
Cause of Action for Fraud and Deceit
Defendant
also moves for summary adjudication on the grounds that the economic loss rule
bars Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud and deceit.
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) 
“Quite
simply, the economic loss rule ‘prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of
tort from dissolving one into the other.’”  (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (Robinson Helicopter).) 
However, tort damages may be permitted when the breach of contract is accompanied
by a tort such as fraud.  (Id. at pp. 989-990.)  “Tort damages
have been permitted in contract cases . . . where the contract was fraudulently
induced.  [Citation.]”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th
543, 551-552.)  To plead around the economic loss rule, a party must plead
the existence of a duty that arises independent of any contractual duty and
independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises from the breach of
that duty.  (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp.
988-991.) 
Defendant argues the alleged
fraudulent conduct here arises exclusively from the parties’ contract, as the
alleged representations were made in connection with Defendant’s alleged
nonperformance of the “non-compete provision” in paragraph 1.10 of the lease.
Plaintiffs make no claim that they were fraudulently induced into entering into
the lease. Nor could they, as they signed it back in 2011 with Cooper’s
predecessor, while their claim for fraud is based on representations by Cooper
in 2018. (Compl. ¶ 29, Ex. A (lease dated February 28, 2011).) 
Defendant has met its burden to
show that the economic loss rule bars Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud in
that the alleged fraud arises out of the contract’s non-compete provision.
Plaintiffs argue in opposition
that they intend to move the court to amend the complaint either prior to or at
the hearing on this motion. Plaintiffs contend that three weeks after Defendant
filed its motion for summary judgment, Plaintiffs took Diau’s deposition on June 15,
2023. Diau’s deposition was the first time Plaintiff or its counsel had any
indication that Defendant was negotiating the Tai Zong Restaurant Group over a
lease for space where it would operate a hot-pot restaurant while
negotiating a ten-year lease extension with Plaintiff without disclosing that
it sought to install a competing restaurant. That fraudulent conduct
induced Plaintiff to extend its lease ten years. (Starre Decl., ¶ 3; Diau Depo.,
117:3-199:14.) 
Plaintiffs will move to amend
their fraud cause of action to allege that at the time of the lease extension
negotiations, Defendant harbored a secret intention not to perform its
exclusivity obligations during the extended term, and it concealed its negotiations
to lease space to Tai Zong pursuant to the very same lease that Wagyu House
eventually assumed. Under the contemplated allegations, the economic loss rule
is not applicable, since the action concerns fraudulent inducement into the
contract. (See Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
828 [holding that economic loss rule does not bar fraudulent inducement claim
based on
contracting party’s deceitful nondisclosure of material facts].)
In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend should be denied because the materials
they submit do not show that they could state a new cause of action. (Bostrom
v. Cnty. of San Bernardino, 35 Cal. App. 4th 1654, 1672 (1995) (“[I]f
summary judgment is granted on the ground that the complaint is legally
insufficient, but it appears from the materials submitted in opposition to
the motion that the plaintiff could state a cause of action, the trial
court should give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend the complaint before
entry of judgment.”).)
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
characterization of the facts and deposition testimony which they argue would
support a new claim is demonstrably false. Plaintiffs argue Cooper was
negotiating a lease with Tai Zong Restaurant Group LLC in 2019 when Plaintiffs
were negotiating their own lease extension. Plaintiffs are simply wrong. Tai
Zong Restaurant Group LLC signed its lease with Cooper in 2018—a full year
before Plaintiffs were negotiating an extension of their own lease. (Diau Decl.
¶ 6, Ex. 2.) Tai Zong Restaurant Group LLC ultimately assigned its lease to the
operators of Wagyu House, but this was much later—in August 2021. (Id. ¶
14, Ex. 4.) The only testimony Plaintiffs submit to support their request for
leave to amend is deposition testimony from Mr. Diau discussing a prospective
tenant named “Chuan Chuan Xiang,” not Tai Zong Restaurant Group LLC or Wagyu
House. Given this fatal issue, Plaintiffs have not articulated how they could
satisfy the elements of a new fraud claim. 
The Court finds Defendant’s
argument convincing. The evidence submitted by Plaintiff does not show that
Defendant harbored a secret intention not to perform its exclusivity
obligations during the extended term, and it concealed its negotiations to
lease space to Tai Zong pursuant to the very same lease that Wagyu House
eventually assumed. The deposition testimony refers to Cooper negotiating with
Chuan Chuan Xiang to operate a hot pot restaurant during its negotiations with
Plaintiff for the extension of the lease. However, Plaintiff has not explained
who Xiang is and how Defendant’s negotiations with Xiang have anything to do
with Tai Zong assigning the 2018 lease to Wagyu House. 
Thus, unless Plaintiff can
adequately explain who Xiang is in relation to Tai Zong at the hearing on this
motion, the Court finds that Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as
to the third cause of action for fraud.
III.              
Fourth
Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices
Defendant also moves for summary
adjudication of the Unfair Business Practices cause of action, as it is
derivative of the fraud claim.
To
prove a claim for unfair business practices plaintiff must prove an unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business practices or acts and unfair, deceptive, untrue,
or misleading advertising. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq. (“Section
17200”); see also Podolsky v. First Healthcare Corp. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 632, 647.) 
 
Defendant also argues that the claim for unfair competition appears
to stem solely from the alleged fraud articulated in the third cause of action.
Because the UCL claim is derivative of the fraud claim, it fails for the same
reasons. 
The Court agrees. As the fraud
cause of action has failed, so does the UCL claim. Plaintiffs do not present
any argument as to the UCL claim other than stating they will move to amend the
fraud cause of action. Thus, Plaintiffs must explain how Xiang’s negotiations
have anything to do with Tai Zong assigning the 2018 lease to Wagyu House. If
Plaintiffs are able to show they can state a cause of action for fraudulent
inducement, then their UCL claim will survive this motion as well. 
IV.               
Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action for
Intentional and Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
Defendant moves for summary
judgment or adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ causes of action for intentional and
negligent interreference with prospective economic advantage, arguing that
Plaintiffs’ claim for intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage fails for three reasons: (1) they improperly seek tort remedies for a
contract claim; (2) Plaintiffs cannot show Cooper engaged in an act
independently wrongful from the alleged interference itself; and (3) Plaintiffs
cannot sue for alleged generalized harm to “Plaintiffs’ customers.” 
“The
elements of a claim of interference with economic advantage and prospective
economic advantage are: (1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional
or negligent acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.” (Crown
Imports, LLC v. Super. Ct. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404 [cleaned
up].) 
 
“The tort of negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage is established where a plaintiff demonstrates that (1) an economic
relationship existed between the plaintiff and a third party which contained a
reasonably probable future economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2) the
defendant knew of the existence of the relationship and was aware or should
have been aware that if it did not act with due care its actions would
interfere with this relationship and cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in
part the probable future economic benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3)
the defendant was negligent; and (4) such negligence caused damage to plaintiff
in that the relationship was actually interfered with or disrupted and
plaintiff lost in whole or in part the economic benefits or advantage
reasonably expected from the relationship.”  (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court¿(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 786.) 
For both, the interference must be
wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the interference itself.
(Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378.
“[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is
proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003)
29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.) 
Moreover, breach of contract is
not wrongful conduct that is independent of a tort claim for interference.
“[A]s our Supreme Court has said time and again, an actor’s breach of contract,
without more, is not ‘wrongful conduct’ capable of supporting a tort
(Citations), including the tort of intentional interference with a prospective
economic advantage.” (Drink Tank Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles,
Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528, 533.” 
Here, Plaintiffs base their
interference claim solely on Defendant’s leasing of space to another
restaurant—the very same conduct they claim amounts to a breach of paragraph
1.10 of the lease. (Compl. ¶ 41.) They allege no other wrongful conduct
to support the claim. Plaintiffs cannot recover tort remedies based only on an
alleged breach of lease. 
Plaintiffs do not respond to these
arguments. As such, Defendant has met its burden to show that there are no
triable issues of fact as to whether Plaintiff’s causes of action are based on
the same breach of contract, which cannot form the basis of wrongful conduct
for these causes of action. Therefore, Defendant is entitled to summary
adjudication as to the fifth and sixth causes of action for negligent and
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED unless Plaintiff can offer an adequate
explanation as to how Xiang’s negotiations have anything to do with Tai Zong
assigning the 2018 lease to Wagyu House in order for the Court to allow
Plaintiffs to amend their complaint as to the fraud and UCL causes of action.
In that case, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication will be granted in
part. Summary adjudication will be granted as to the first, second, fifth and
sixth causes of action, but denied as to the third for fraud and fourth under
the UCL.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.