 Case Number:  22STCV26520    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order
is DENIED. Both parties’ request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Objections
 
Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s
declaration submitted with the reply, along with exhibits C-G attached to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration.
 
The general rule of motion practice is that new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers. Specifically, points raised for the first
time would deprive the respondent an opportunity to counter the argument. (Jay
v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.) 
The objection to the exhibits and Paragraphs
10-13 of the declaration is GRANTED. 
Legal Standard 
 
CCP section 2025.420(a) provides that “[b]efore . . . a deposition, any
party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may
promptly move for a protective order.”  (CCP § 2025.420(a).)  “The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.”  (CCP § 2025.420(b).)  In fashioning a protective order, a
court has the discretion to, among other things, order “[t]hat the deposition
not be taken at all,” “[t]hat the deposition be taken only on certain specified
terms and conditions,” or “[t]hat the deponent’s testimony be taken by written,
instead of oral, examination.”  (CCP § 2025.420(c)(1), (5),
(6).)  
 
The burden of proof is on the party
seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for the order he or she
seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th
245, 255.)  A motion for a protective order “shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090.)  “A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)   
 
“In
accordance with the liberal policies underlying the discovery procedures,
California courts have been broad-minded in determining whether discovery is
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. (Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 172; Pettie v. Superior
Court (1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 680, 687.) As a practical matter, it is
difficult to define at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant at
trial. Therefore, the party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial
leeway. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 172.)
Furthermore, California’s liberal approach to permissible discovery generally
has led the courts to resolve any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Id.
at p. 173.) In doing so, the courts have taken the view if an error is made in
ruling on a discovery motion, it is better that it be made in favor of granting
discovery of the nondiscoverable rather than denying discovery of information
vital to preparation or presentation of the party's case or to efficacious
settlement of the dispute.” (Norton v. Superior Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.) 
 
Discussion 
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff argues in the reply that
Defendant’s opposition is untimely and should be disregarded.
 
“A trial court has broad discretion
to overlook late-served papers and to resolve the matter on the
merits.”   (Gonzalez v. Santa Clara County Dept. of Social
Services (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 162, 168 [“(E)ven if the service had been
untimely, the trial court was vested with discretion to overlook the defect”];
see also Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc.  (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765
[“A trial court has broad discretion under rule 3.1300(d) of the Rules of Court
to refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a
prior court order finding good cause for late submission.”].) The court
exercises its discretion and considers the merits of the opposition. Further, Plaintiff has filed a
reply on the merits, even though she argues she was prejudiced by only having
three court days to file the reply. Defendant only filed its opposition one day
late. If Plaintiff is accounting for the court holiday on November 22, 2023 in
excluding a day, that is of no fault of Defendant’s.
Plaintiff moves for a protective order
precluding Donald Cole from attending her deposition. Plaintiff contends her
that Donald Cole was present without notice as required under California Rule
of Court (“CRC”) 3.1010(b). CRC rule 3.1010, subdivision (b) entitled
“Appearing and participating in depositions” states: Any party, other than the
deponent, or attorney of record may appear and participate in an oral
deposition by telephone, videoconference, or other remote electronic means,
provided: (1) Written notice of such appearance is served by personal delivery,
e-mail, or fax at least five court days before the deposition.” (CRC 3.1010,
subdivision (b).) Plaintiff contends Cole’s presence caused extreme annoyance,
embarrassment, oppression and undue burden on Plaintiff. Additionally (or in
the alternative), Plaintiff requests a protective order (1) denying questions
related to Plaintiff’s medical documents and information at her deposition and
instead that such answers be provided via written responses; (2) protecting
such medical documents and information from distribution by Defendant and
Defendant’s agents, subsidiaries, and employees as confidential information;
and (3) ordering the Defendant to adhere to California Rule of Court 3.1010 by
providing required notice of all appropriate attendees at any future
deposition. 
Additionally, Defendant’s counsel had
appearances by two attorneys without noticing Plaintiff under CRC 3.1010(b), as
required. Further, one of those attorneys has never been mentioned on any of
Defendant’s filings and is, therefore, not Defendant’s “attorney of record.” 
Plaintiff argues this lawsuit concerns Donald Cole’s
alleged disability and age discrimination against Plaintiff; Donald Cole’s
retaliatory distribution of Plaintiff’s medical information and distribution of
false medical information about Plaintiff; and Donald Cole’s intimidation of
Plaintiff. Therefore, she argues, the attendance of Donald Cole at Plaintiff’s
deposition without proper notice caused extreme annoyance, embarrassment,
oppression, and undue burden on Plaintiff. Plaintiff had a lawful right to have
notice of and provide objection to such attendance before the Deposition
occurred. Donald Cole’s surprise attendance caused serious injury to Plaintiff,
requiring a stay of Plaintiff’s deposition. 
Defendant in opposition states that Cole not
only is the CEO of the company, he is the officer of Defendant C.W. Cole who
verified the its discovery responses, and who has served as the main contact
with Defendant’s counsel regarding this action. Sun Hi Ahn, Esq. is an of
counsel attorney to Defendant’s counsel of record, Law Offices of Susan A.
Rodriguez, APC and has served in that capacity for nearly a decade. Ahn’s
appearance at the deposition should have been no surprise – she has
participated in multiple telephonic phone conferences attended by Rodriguez and
Plaintiff’s counsel. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) Moreover, her participation is
not a recent occurrence. Rodriguez made clear to Plaintiff’s counsel even
before Mr. Braud was involved in the case, that Ahn was involved in the defense
of the matter and that she should be copied on all communications. Ahn
identified herself at the very beginning of the deposition as “an attorney for
the defendant, C.W. Cole & Company, Incorporated.” (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 9,
Bernal Depo. at 5:13-16 Exh. D.) After Plaintiff’s counsel objected, Rodriguez
informed him on the record that Ahn was of counsel to her firm. 
Defendant also argues that Don Cole attended the zoom
deposition using the “camera off” feature. In other words, only his name was
visible on a blacked-out screen indicating that he was present. Moreover, Cole
said nothing at all, made no sounds whatsoever, and made no visible gestures
(he was “camera off”) during the deposition. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 13, Bernal
Depo. at 12:24-13:13, Exh. D.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff misreads
CRC rule 3.1010. CRC rule 3.1010(a) establishes
requirements for “taking depositions” by telephone, videoconference,
or other remote electronic means as follows: 
Any party may take an oral deposition by
telephone, videoconference, or other remote electronic means, provided: 
(1) Notice is served with the notice of
deposition or the subpoena;
(2) That party makes all arrangements for any other party to participate in the
deposition in an equivalent manner. However, each party so appearing must pay
all expenses incurred by it or properly allocated to it; 
(3) Any party or attorney of record may be
physically present at the deposition at the location of the deponent with
written notice of such appearance served by personal delivery, email, or fax,
at least five court days before the deposition, and subject to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420. An attorney for the deponent may be physically
present with the deponent without notice. 
Defendant served notices of deposition calling for
deposition via remote electronic means. Therefore, Defendant complied with the
requirements of subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2). Defendant was not required to
comply with subsection (a)(3) because it did not seek to “be physically present
at the deposition at the location of the deponent.” 
California Rule of Court 3.1010(b) is entitled “[a]ppearing
and participating in depositions,” and states:
Any party, other than the deponent, or attorney of record
may appear and participate in an oral deposition by telephone, videoconference,
or other remote electronic means, provided: 
(1) Written notice of such appearance is
served by personal delivery, e-mail, or fax at least five court days before the
deposition;
(2) The party so appearing makes all arrangements and pays all expenses
incurred for the appearance. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff misreads this section to
argue that Defendant was required to provide an additional notice for
the designation of Don Cole as its officer representative and Sun Hi Ahn as its
counsel. Plaintiff is mistaken. Instead, this section is commonly understood to
grant parties the right to appear by telephonic or other remote electronic
means at an in-person deposition, as long as they provide advance
written notice. Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th 1144,
1175-1176 (citing Cal. Rules of Court 3.1010 for principle that a party,
in this case an imprisoned Plaintiff, had the right to attend a deposition by
telephonic or other remote electronic means). 
The
Court finds that good cause has not been shown to grant a protective order
precluding Plaintiff’s deposition or limiting it in any way. First, the Court
agrees that Defendant provided proper notice under CRC rule 3.1010(a),
and that CRC rule 3.1010(b) applies when appearing remotely at an
in-person deposition. In any event, even if there was improper notice as
Plaintiff argues, the Court cannot order Cole not to be present, as he is
entitled to be present under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420(b)(12).
The Discovery Act does not specifically state who may or may not attend a
deposition. But it recognizes that parties and their counsel have the right to
be there. This is implicit in the statute dealing with protective orders which
allows the court to exclude from a deposition “designated persons, other
than the parties to the action and their officers and counsel.” (CCP §
2025.420(b)(12).) Therefore, a court has no power to grant a protective order
barring a party from attending another's deposition even on a showing that the
deponent will feel “intimidated” by the party's presence at the deposition. (Willoughby
v. Sup.Ct. (Lui) (1985) 172 CA3d 890, 892.) Plaintiff argues in reply that
it is well-recognized that it is within the discretion of the court to exclude
certain corporate officers from a deposition if such an order is appropriate to
the case. (Lowy Development Corp. v. Sup. Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d
317, 321 (finding a court was not prohibited from excluding “some of the
officers, if an order is appropriate to the case” (emphasis in original) under
the same substantive statute discussed in Willoughby v. Superior Court (1985)
172 Cal.App.3d 890, [as cited by Defendant’s Opposition, p.5, lns. 5-8, 16-
20], Cal. Code Civ. Pro. § 2019, a precursor statue to the current Cal. Code
Civ. Pro. § 2025.420).) However, there is no evidence presented to the court
that Defendant has other officers. 
Moreover,
Defendant contends that Cole did not do anything during this deposition, and
thus, it appears there is no annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, and undue
burden to which the Court could protect Plaintiff from. While Plaintiff
provided a factual basis in the reply for her assertion that Defendant in the
past shared her medical records, Defendant objected to this new evidence and
this objection was sustained. The Court will also note that Plaintiff has filed
a disability lawsuit against Defendant, and thus, her medical records will be
at the heart of this lawsuit. As such, Plaintiff has not shown good cause.
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions under CCP sections 2023.030 for the alleged misuse of discovery is
denied. In a recent case, City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504, the Court of appeal concluded that:
"sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial
court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (Id.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff requests sanctions under CCP section
2025.420, which states: “The court shall impose
a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP section
2025.420.)
However, Plaintiff is the
unsuccessful party and cannot be awarded sanctions. 
 
Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied as it has not
requested sanctions in the notice of opposition. CCP section 2023.040 states: A request for a
sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought.
(CCP section 2023.040.)
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order is DENIED. Both parties’ request for
sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 