 Case Number:  BC631370    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is
GRANTED.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1048(b) provides, as follows:  “The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross–complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.”
“The
major objective of bifurcated trials is to expedite and simplify the
presentation of evidence.” (Foreman &
Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.) 
Objections
 
Plaintiff’s Objection
to Defendant’s Evidence is OVERRULED. However, the Court does not rely on the
unpublished case cited. In any event, the Court notes that Defendant cites this
unpublished case in support of an argument Defendant makes that has no bearing
or relevance to this motion.
 
Discussion
GEICO moves to bifurcate the
products liability causes of action against FCA from the insurance coverage
claims against GEICO. It argues that are two sets of defendants left in the
case: (1) Defendants Government Employees Insurance Company and GEICO General
Insurance Company, and (2) Defendant FCA. GEICO argues that the claims against
GEICO and FCA are based on separate and distinct transactions, occurrences,
legal theories, and they will involve factual proof that is not common to all
defendants. As to FCA, Plaintiffs must present evidence of an alleged defect
and how the alleged defect(s) caused the accident and their injuries. However,
as to GEICO, Plaintiffs must present evidence of an insurance contract,
insurance coverage and/or denial of an Underinsured Motorist claim. Thus,
granting severance will avoid prejudice and be conducive to expediency and
economy. 
Plaintiff argues in opposition
that there are sufficiently common questions of law and fact pertaining to the
allocation of fault between all potential tortfeasors, such that separate
trials will result in inconsistent and irreconcilable verdicts. Although
Plaintiff is a negligent-free passenger, because this is a vehicle crash
involving multiple potential tortfeasors, the jury will have to allocate fault
between the driver (Carla Noble) and FCA US (hereinafter “Chrysler”), the
manufacturer of the Jeep. Because GEICO stands in the shoes of Carla Noble for
purposes of determining the extent of its own liability, GEICO is seeking to
minimize the extent of fault caused by Ms. Noble’s loss of control of the
vehicle, and instead seeks to attribute all fault to Chrysler for a defective
vehicle. 
The
court concludes that the triable issues are separate. There are different sets
of claims between different defendants. The
distinct claims against GEICO are for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) declaratory relief; (4) negligent
infliction of emotional distress; (5) violation of California Unfair
Competition law; and (6) unjust enrichment and these causes of action are based
on insurance coverage. The claims against FCA are for: (1) strict product
liability; and (2) negligence, based on the vehicle involved in the crash.
Thus, there are no common issues of fact or law. The jury would have to sit
through testimony unrelated to Defendant GEICO’s causes of action, and vice
versa. This might cause the jury confusion and multiply the length of trial.
Moreover, as the claims and defendants are completely different, there is no
risk that there will be inconsistent rulings. It is unclear to this Court how
GEICO would stand in the shoes of Noble in the personal injury action. First,
Noble is not a defendant in this matter. Second, GEICO was Plaintiffs’ insurer,
not Noble’s. The Court does not find this argument availing. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is GRANTED.
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.