 Case Number:  22STCV29446    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Defendant’s motion to set aside default and
default judgment is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay monetary sanctions to
Plaintiff in the amount of $1,000 within 30 days of this order.
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for two distinct types of relief—commonly differentiated as “discretionary” and
“mandatory”—from certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. 
(Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124 (Luri).)   
 
The discretionary portion of section 473, subdivision (b)
provides: “The court may, upon terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
The mandatory portion of section 473 requires the court to,
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  A timely mea culpa declaration by a
plaintiff’s attorney establishing that a dismissal was taken against her client
as a result of attorney mistake, inadvertence, or neglect deprives the court of
the discretion to deny relief.  (Tackett v. City of Huntington Beach
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 60, 65.)   
Discussion
Defendant
moves to set aside entry of default and default judgment due to excusable
neglect or mistake. Defendant Devane is the former president of Defendant
Boondock, dba, Texino. Plaintiff
filed this action while Texino was scrambling to avoid going out of
business. Devane was unaware, prior to seeing the judgment, that he was
potentially personally obligated on the contract upon which Plaintiff
sued. He did not authorize his signature being affixed to said agreement and
was unaware that he was going to be personally targeted in any lawsuit by
Plaintiff’s Assignor, Forest-Plywood Sales. Devane had not seen the lawsuit
papers prior to Texino’s closure and had no reason to believe he would
personally be a defendant in that lawsuit, since he knew he had never
signed any personal guaranty with Forest-Plywood. He also believed that once
all of Texino’s assets were turned over to a trustee for the benefit of
its creditors, the trustee handling those assets would deal with or
otherwise respond to suing creditors. 
First, Default Judgment was entered
against Defendant on February 17, 2023.  Defendant filed the subject
motion on April 24, 2023, which was within six months of entry of default
judgment and thus, the subject motion is timely.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subdivision (b).)   
Second, Defendant
also filed a copy of its proposed Answer, as Exhibit 6 to the Motion to Set
Aside Default, as is required to seek discretionary relief under section 473,
subdivision (b).  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)   
 
Next, the Court notes that Defendant seeks relief under the
discretionary portion of section 473, subdivision (b), as he does not attribute
fault to its attorney, and therefore cannot move under the mandatory prong. The
Court finds that Defendant has made a sufficient showing of mistake or neglect
in that he believed he did not personally guarantee the contract, and because
he believed the trustee would be handling the matter, given the chaotic state
of events at the time Texino was shutting down. “[I]t is the policy of the law
to bring about a trial on the merits whenever possible, so that any doubts
which may exist should be resolved in favor of the application, to the end of
securing to a litigant his day in court and a trial upon the merits.”  (Frank
E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928 (Bobbitt).) 
“Even in a case where the showing under section 473 is not strong, or where
there is any doubt as to setting aside of a default, such doubt should be
resolved in favor of the application.”  (Ibid., quoting Van
Dyke v. MacMillan (1958) 162 Cal.App.2d 594, 598, italics in Bobbitt.) 
“[D]uring the period when relief under section 473 is available, there is a
strong public policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party
his or her day in court.”  (In re Marriage of Stevenot (1984) 154
Cal.App.3d 1051, 1071 (Stevenot).)  
 
Plaintiff does not
present any argument regarding any prejudice or demonstrate that it would
suffer any prejudice if the court were to grant the requested
relief.   
 
Given the strong
public policy that favors resolving disputes on their merits, the court finds
it appropriate to GRANT the motion under the discretionary portion of section
473, subdivision (b) and to SET ASIDE entry of default  and default judgment entered against
Devane.  (See Bobbit, supra, 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. at p.
928.) 
 
              Monetary Sanctions
 
Under section 473, subdivision (b), the court may relieve a
party from default “upon any terms as may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b).)  “The court may properly order payment of costs or
attorney fees to the adverse party as compensation for loss or expense
occasioned by the granting of the section 473 motion.”  (Jade K. v.
Viguri (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1459, 1474 (Jade K.).) 
 
Plaintiff requests that the court require Defendant to post a
bond in the amount of $50,000, which is, needless to be said, unreasonable. 
 
The court finds it just and appropriate to require Defendant
to compensate Plaintiff for the fees incurred in connection with the entry of
default, default judgment, and the subject motion.  As such, Defendant is
ordered to pay Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,000 within 30
days of this order.
 
Conclusion

Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to set aside default and default judgment is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the
amount of $1,000 within 30 days of this order.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 