  Case Number:  22STCV27325    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is the Plaintiffs’ motion for relief
from the waiver of its objections to Defendant’s requests for admissions and
the Court’s September 7, 2023 order deeming that Plaintiffs have admitted the
matters in the Defendant’s requests for admission. The Plaintiffs’ motion is
denied.  The Court will first take up the
part of the Plaintiffs’ motion that seeks relief from the Court’s September 7,
2023 order, and then will turn to the part that seeks relief from the waiver of
objections.
Defendant served its requests for admission on September
22, 2022.  The Plaintiffs failed to serve
timely responses to Defendant’s requests for admissions.  The responses were untimely because they were
unverified. (Allen-Pacific, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
1546, 1551 [unsworn
responses to requests for admissions are the same as if no responses were made
at all], disapproved on other grounds by Wilcox v. Birtwhistle  21 Cal.4th 973, 983 [“Wilcox’]).   
In
light of the failure of the Plaintiffs to serve timely responses to Defendant’s
requests for admissions, Defendant filed a motion under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2033.290(b) on August 4, 2023 for an order that the matters in the
requests be deemed admitted (“the Deemed Admitted Motion”).   The
Deemed Admitted Motion was set for hearing on September 7, 2023.    At
the hearing, the Court granted the Deemed Admitted Motion.  The Court was required to do so under Section
2033.290(c) because Plaintiffs did not prior to the hearing serve Defendant
with verified responses to the requests for admission in substantial compliance
with Section 2033.220.  (Demyer v.
Costa Mesa Mobile  Home Estates
(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395-396 [[“W]oe betide the party who
fails to serve responses [to requests for admission] before the hearing [on the
motion to deem the matters in the requests admitted].  In that instance the court has no discretion
but to grant the admission motion, usually with fatal consequences for the
defaulting party. One might call it ‘two strikes and you're out’ as applied to
civil procedure.’”], disapproved of on other grounds in Wilcox, supra,
21 Cal.App.4th at p. 983.) 
Indeed, instead of taking advantage of the opportunity afforded under
Section 2033.280(c) to avoid the fate of having the matters deemed admitted by
serving verified responses prior to the hearing on the Deemed Admitted Motion,
Plaintiffs failed a statement of non-opposition to the Motion.
Plaintiffs’
motion for relief from the consequences of the Court’s order granting the
Deemed Admitted Motion was filed under Section 2033.290(b), which provides that
withdrawal of an admission in response to requests for admission may be
permitted “if the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be
substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense.”   The
relief afforded by Section 2033.290(c) is available in cases where the
admission was the product of a court order deeming admitted a matter in
requests for admissions for failure to serve responses in compliance with the
Code of Civil Procedure prior to the hearing on a motion to have the matter
admitted.  (Wilcox, supra,
21 Cal.4th at p. 979.)  Plaintiffs
contend that their failure to serve timely, verified responses to the
Defendants’ Requests for Admission was the result of a calendaring error by
Plaintiffs’ counsel and that this error constitutes mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.
In
the Court’s view, Plaintiffs’ calendaring error explanation is belied by the
record.  For one, the record shows that
the Defendant’s counsel reminded Plaintiffs’ counsel several times during the
long period (almost a year) between service of the request for admissions and
the filing of the Deemed Admitted Motion that Plaintiffs had not served
verified responses to the requests.  
Second, the records shows that Plaintiffs’ counsel was aware of this problem
and asked Defendant’s counsel for more time to obtain verified responses.   Third,
Plaintiffs’ counsel could have served verified responses up to the time of the
hearing on the Deemed Admitted Motion, but instead, filed a non-opposition to
the Motion.  All told, this record does
not manifest a calendaring error.   Plaintiffs’ counsel was fully  cognizant of the calendar.  Rather, the record manifests inexcusable neglect.  Because the Court rejects the notion that the
Plaintiffs’ failure to serve timely, verified responses to the Defendant’s
requests for admission was the product of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect, the Court need not address whether Defendant would be prejudiced were
Plaintiffs given relief from the order granting the Deemed Admitted Motion.
Turning
to the part of the Plaintiff’s motion that seeks relief from the waiver of its
objections to the Defendant’s requests for admissions, that waiver flowed under
Section 2033.280(b) from the Plaintiff’s failure to serve timely responses to
the requests for admission.   Plaintiff’s
request for relief from the waiver is based on Section 2033.280(b)(1) and (b)
(2).  That provision allows for relief from
a party’s waiver of objections to requests for admission if the party
ultimately serves Code-complaint responses and the failure to serve timely
responses was the product of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect. 
This
relief is unavailable to Plaintiffs as well. 
First, a motion under Section 2033.280(b) for relief from waiver of objections
to requests for admissions is inappropriate in cases where, as here, the court
has entered an order deeming matters in the requests admitted.  The party seeking relief from waiver of the
objections must first obtain relief from the order deeming the matters
admitted.  (Weil & Brown, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶
8:1369.1.)  The Court has denied that relief.  In any event, Plaintiffs did not provide any
evidence that they actually have served verified responses to the requests for
admissions.  And, as indicated above, Plaintiffs’
explanation of calendaring error for the failure to serve timely responses does
not hold water; thus, the failure was not the product of mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect.