 Case Number:  22STCV34211    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  57 Sirena Hovagimyan is the daughter and heir of Mary Babayan,  Hovagimyan alleges in her complaint that on or about October 15, 2021, Babayan was admitted to Defendant CHA Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center (“Hollywood Presbyterian”), where she was denied adequate, reasonable medical care and treatment and, as a result, died on October 26, 2021.   Hovagimyan’s complaint seeks relief for herself in her individual capacity and on behalf of Babayan’s estate in her capacity as Babayan’s successor in interest.  In addition to Hollywood Presbyterian, Hovagimyan sued six medical doctors. Pending before the Court is the demurrer and motion to strike of one of those doctors, Krikor Kalindjian.The Court’s ruling is as follows.DEMURRERHovagimyan’s Claims in Her Individual CapacityThe demurrer is sustained without to leave to amend as to every cause of action asserted by Hovagimyan in her individual capacity, except for the cause of action for the wrongful death of Babayan,   That is because, other than the causes of action for wrongful death, Hovagimyan lacks standing to pursue these causes of action in her individual capacity, as opposed to her capacity as Babayan’s successor in interest.As to the causes of action for wrongful death, which are the first and third causes of action, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.  That is because (a) the first and third causes of action are duplicative of one other and (b) the first cause of action also contains claims for medical malpractice and medical negligence – the wrongful death claim must be asserted separate and apart from claims for medical malpractice and medical negligence.Hovagimyan’s Claims in Her Capacity as Babayan’s Successor in InterestThe demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the first cause of action, which improperly merges claims for wrongful death (a claim that cannot be brought by a successor in interest) with claims for medical malpractice and medical negligence.The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the second cause of action, which is for elder abuse based on neglect and willful misconduct.  In the Court’s view, the allegations in the complaint are insufficient to establish a claim for elder abuse against Dr. Kalindjian, whom, according to the complaint, was not even at Hollywood Presbyterian when Babayan was hospitalized there and thus she could not have been in Dr. Kalindjian's care or custody.The demurrer is sustained as to the third cause of action, which is for elder abuse based on wrongful death.   Hovagimyan lacks standing to pursue an elder abuse claim based on wrongful death in her capacity as Babayan’s successor in interest.The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action for negligence per se.   There is no such thing as a cause of action for negligence per se.   Rather, negligence per se is an evidentiary standard that applies to certain negligence claims.   Hovagimyan’s opposition does not address this aspect of the demurrer.   The demurrer is sustained  as to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation.  In the Court’s view, the allegations in the complaint are not sufficiently particularized to meet the heightened pleading requirement for fraud claims.  In short, there are no fraud-related allegations specific to Dr. Kalindjian, who, again according to the complaint, was not even present at Hollywood Presbyterian.The demurrer is sustained as to the sixth cause of action for unlawful and deceptive business practices and unfair competition under Business and Professions Code Section 17200.   That is because the Court is sustaining the demurrer as to all of the causes of action asserted against Dr. Kalindjian and thus there are no predicate acts or offenses that can form the basis for a claim under Section 17200.The demurrer is sustained as to the seventh cause of action for violation of Health and Safety Code Section 1430.  There are no allegations that Dr. Kalindjian is a licensee of a skilled nursing facility for purposes of Health and Safety Code Section 1430.MOTION TO STRIKEIn light of the ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is denied with prejudice as moot.