 Case Number:  22STCV35272    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant has failed to repair the subject vehicle to conform to
applicable warranties and concealed the existence of a Transmission Defect.
            Defendants
Ford Motor Company and Ken Grody Ford demur to the First Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants
Ford Motor Company and Ken Grody Ford’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action and SUSTAINED with leave to amend
as to the fifth cause of action. 
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            Defendant
did not file a meet and confer declaration. It appears that a document
purporting to be such declaration was misfiled, as it is actually a duplicate
demurrer. As the points and authorities refer to the meet and confer
declaration of Ravi K. Lally, the Court assumes the meet and confer requirement
was satisfied.
 
Discussion
 
Defendants
Ford Motor Company and Ken Grody Ford demur to the First Amended Complaint as
follows.
 
1.         Fifth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment).
 
            A.        Re: Failure To Plead Concealed
Defect.
 
            Santana
v. FCA LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.4th 334, 345, cited by Defendant,
is factually distinguishable, as that case resulted in a jury verdict, whereas
this case is only at the demurrer stage. 
 
            Here,
the First Amended Complaint alleges the following regarding the Transmission
Defect:
 
16. The 10R80
Transmission Defect (“Transmission Defect”) causes consumers to experience the
following unexpected manifestations of the defect: abrupt harsh shifting,
erratic shifting, jerking (commonly known as “juddering” or “shuddering”),
lunging while slowing down, hesitation between gears, lack of acceleration,
loss of power, stalling, slipping gears, failure to change gears, clunking or
banging noises, and other drivability concerns that impede the driver’s safety,
each and all of which 
prevent a
10R80 equipped vehicle from operating as intended by the driver.    
 
17. This
Transmission Defect creates unreasonably dangerous situations while driving and
increases the risk of a crash when trying to accelerate from a stop; when
slowing down to a stop, at low speeds when drivers intend to accelerate to
merge with highway traffic; and when attempting to 
drive uphill.
The Transmission Defect creates a serious safety risk that can lead to
accidents, injuries, or even death to the driver, the vehicles’ occupants,
other drivers, and pedestrians.
     (1AC, ¶¶ 16, 17.)
            ¶¶
18 – 39, 48 – 54, allege that Defendant Ford knew of this transmission defect
and intentionally concealed it when it sold the vehicles affected by the defect
and did not fix the defect. This is what which Santana noted was
required to show fraudulent concealment: “Santana would need evidence that,
prior to Santana's purchase of the [*346]  vehicle, Chrysler was
aware of a defect in the TIPM that it was either unwilling or unable to fix.
There was no such evidence.” (Santana v. FCA
US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334,
345-46.)
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it
can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.” (Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.) “The sole issue raised by a
general demurrer is whether the facts pleaded state a valid cause of action,
not whether they are true. No matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff's
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.
(Citation omitted.) Furthermore, plaintiff's possible inability or difficulty
in proving the allegations of the complaint is of no concern. (Citation omitted.)”
(Kerivan v. Title Ins. & Trust Co.
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 225, 229.)
            This
argument is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: No Duty To Disclose and
Representations Not Pled With Specificity.
            Defendant
argues that no transactional relationship between Ford and Plaintiff is alleged
which gives rise to a duty to disclose.
“There are ‘four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. [Citation.]’ ” (Citations omitted.) Where, as here, there
is no fiduciary relationship, the duty to disclose generally presupposes a
relationship grounded in “some sort of transaction between the parties.
[Citations.] Thus, a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement. [Citation.]” (Citation
omitted.)
(OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v.
CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859 [bold emphasis
added].)
            ¶ 58
alleges:
 
58. Ford drafted, produced, and
distributed marketing materials to the public containing factual
representations about the Subject Vehicle. Prior to purchasing the Subject
Vehicle, Plaintiff reviewed marketing brochures, viewed television commercials
and/or heard radio commercials about the qualities of the FORD F-150.  Plaintiff further relied on the statements made
during the sales process by FORD’s agents and within the marketing materials
written by FORD.  However, FORD and its
authorized agents did not disclose to Plaintiff any information about the 10R80
Transmission Defect. These omissions were material to Plaintiff’s decision to
purchase the Subject Vehicle.  Had FORD
and/or its authorized agents disclosed the 10R80 defect before Plaintiff
purchased the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff would have been aware of such defects,
and would not have purchased the Subject Vehicle. 
            However,
as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff has not plead the misrepresentations to which
he was exposed in promotional materials with sufficient specificity upon which
Plaintiff relied. Plaintiff must allege statements which would
constitute, at the very least, half-truths if not outright misrepresentations
as to the subject vehicle, and actual reliance upon such statements. Plaintiff
has only alleged that he received generic information,, but does not allege
anything that would constitute a half-truth about the Transmission.
            The
relationship between the manufacturer of medical devices in Bigler-Engler v.
Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, cited by Defendant for the proposition
that there is an insufficient transactional relationship, is different than the
relationship between a car manufacturer and a car buyer. In Bigler-Engler,
the evidence did not show that the manufacturer directly advertised its
products to consumers, nor that it derived any monetary benefit directly from
the consumer’s rental of the medical device. (Id. at 314.)
            Civil Code
§ 1710(3)(deceit is defined to include “[t]he
suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives information of other facts
which are likely to mislead for want of communication of that fact. . .
.”)(bold emphasis added). 
 In a misleading
half-truth situation, where the defendant undertakes to provide some
information, the defendant is “obliged to disclose all other facts which
‘materially qualify’ the limited facts disclosed. (Citations omitted.)” (Randi W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist.
(1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, 1082.)
[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud
based on concealment are: “ ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
(Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life
Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.)
 
Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with “ ‘general and
conclusory allegations.’ ” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th
167, 184 [132 Cal. Rptr. 2d 490, 65 P.3d 1255].)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation,
to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was
made. (Lazar v. Superior Court, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)
 
We enforce the specificity requirement in consideration of its two
purposes. The first purpose is to give notice to the defendant with
sufficiently definite charges that the defendant can meet them. (Committee on
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216
[197 Cal. Rptr. 783, 673 P.2d 660].) The second is to permit a court to weed
out meritless fraud claims on the basis of the pleadings; thus, “the pleading
should be sufficient ‘ “to enable the court to determine whether, on the facts
pleaded, there is any foundation, prima facie at least, for the charge of
fraud.” ’ ” (Id. at pp. 216–217.)
 
(West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
 
Moreover: “[c]oncealment is a species of
fraud, and ‘[f]raud must be pleaded with specificity.’ (Citation omitted.) To
plead tort liability based on false or incomplete statements, the pleader must
set forth at least the substance of those statements.”  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale,
LL (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th
858, 878.) 
As such, Plaintiff
must allege the statements made in the promotional materials upon which he
relied with more specificity. 
The demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
C.        Re: Economic Loss Rule.
Defendant’s argument that the fraud
claim is barred by the economic loss rule is not persuasive. 
As noted above, ¶ 16, 17 allege
that the Transmission Defect poses a risk of dangerous situations that could
result in injuries to third parties, exposing Plaintiff to liability to third
parties.
            These facts would bring Plaintiffs’
claims outside the economic loss rule for fraud which exposes the plaintiff to
liability to third parties, as recognized in Robinson Helicopter and its progeny. The alleged fraud exposes
Plaintiffs to causing harm to third persons as a result of driving a vehicle
with an undisclosed defect. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 292, 326-29.
Because the application of the economic loss doctrine to plaintiffs'
fraud cause of action depends on our interpretation of the California Supreme
Court's recent decision in Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979 [22 Cal. Rptr. 3d 352, 102 P.3d 268] (Robinson), we turn to this
question first.

Robinson was a breach of contract and fraud
action. Dana and Robinson had contracted for Dana to supply a part for
Robinson's helicopters. Their contract required the part to be manufactured to
certain specifications and prohibited changes to the manufacturing process
without approval. When it delivered the parts, Dana provided Robinson with
certificates required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). These
certificates asserted that the parts had been manufactured to the
requisite specifications. (Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34
Cal.4th at pp. 985–986.) After a couple of years, Dana changed its
manufacturing process so that the parts did not meet Robinson's specifications
and did not comport with the required certificates. However, Dana continued to
supply the required certificates and did not tell Robinson about the change.
(Id. at p. 986.) After more than a year  [*327]  of supplying the
nonconforming parts, Dana switched back to the original manufacturing process
that met the required specifications. It did not notify Robinson of this change
either. (Ibid.)

Eventually, Robinson's helicopters began to
experience a high failure rate for this part. (Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana
Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 986.) It was only after Robinson complained to
Dana about the high failure rate that Dana disclosed that the parts were
nonconforming. (Id. at pp. 986–987.) The
defective parts did not cause any physical injury to person, property or
other components of the helicopters. However, Robinson was required to
recall and replace the nonconforming parts. 
And Dana was not very cooperative in providing the information necessary
to identify the nonconforming parts so that they could be rapidly replaced.
(Ibid.) Robinson incurred more than $ 1.5 million in expenses for replacement
parts and employee time spent investigating the matter, identifying the
nonconforming parts and replacing them. (Id. at p. 987.)

The jury found that Dana had breached its
contract with Robinson, breached the warranties, and committed fraud. (Robinson
Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp. 987–988.) It awarded
Robinson nearly all of its claimed expenses as compensatory damages and also
awarded Robinson $ 6 million in punitive damages. (Id. at p. 987.) The Court of
Appeal held that Robinson had no tort action (and therefore could not recover
punitive damages) because it had suffered only economic loss. (Id. at p. 988.)
The California Supreme Court granted review to decide that issue. (Ibid.)

The court held that Dana's provision of false certificates of conformance supported a cause of
action for fraud even absent physical injury. (Robinson Helicopter
Co. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 988.)  Initially, the court
noted that the economic loss rule was intended to separate contract from tort.
(Ibid.) “ ‘[T]he economic loss rule allows a plaintiff to recover in strict
products liability in tort when a product defect causes damage to “other
property”, that is, property other than the product itself. The law of
contractual warranty governs damage to the product itself.’ ” (Id. at p. 989.)

Robinson claimed that its fraud cause of action
was permitted because it arose independently from the contract breach: the
contract was breached by the supply of nonconforming parts; the fraud was
providing false certificates claiming that the parts conformed. (Robinson
Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 989.) Dana argued that
its fraud was not independent of the breach of contract. (Id. at p. 992.) The
court concluded that, because Robinson had relied
on the certificates and its lack of knowledge of the nonconformity had led to
economic loss and exposed Robinson to liability if  [*328] 
any of the affected helicopters failed and caused physical injury, the fraud
was “independent” of the breach. (Id. at pp. 990–991.)

The court then reasoned that the economic loss rule did not bar
Robinson's fraud cause of action “because [the fraud cause of action was]
independent of Dana's breach of contract.” (Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana
Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 991, italics added.) “ ‘Because of the extra measure of blameworthiness
inhering in fraud, and because in fraud cases we are not concerned about the
need for “predictability about the cost of contractual relationships,” … fraud plaintiffs
may recover “out-of-pocket” damages in addition to benefit-of-the bargain
damages.’ ” (Id. at p. 992, citation omitted.)

  “ ‘… [a]
party to a contract cannot rationally calculate the possibility that the other
party will deliberately misrepresent terms critical to that contract.’ … No
rational party would enter into a contract anticipating that they are or will
be lied to. ‘While parties, perhaps because of their technical expertise
and sophistication, can be presumed to understand and allocate the risks
relating to negligent product design or manufacture, those same parties cannot,
and should not, be expected to anticipate fraud and dishonesty in every
transaction.’ … Dana's argument therefore proposes to increase the certainty in
contractual relationships by encouraging fraudulent conduct at the expense of
an innocent party. No public policy supports such an outcome. [¶] Nor do we
believe that our decision will open the floodgates to future litigation. Our holding today is narrow in scope and limited
to a defendant's affirmative misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies and
which expose a plaintiff to liability for personal damages independent of the
plaintiff's economic loss.” (Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp., supra,
34 Cal.4th at p. 993, citations and fn. omitted.)

The determination of whether the economic loss
rule applies to plaintiffs' fraud cause of action depends on whether the
California Supreme Court intended in Robinson to obviate the application of the
economic loss rule to all intentional affirmative fraud causes of action where
the fraud exposes the plaintiff to liability or the court intended to provide a
narrow exception to the economic loss rule that applies only where that fraud
cause of action also accompanies, but is independent of, a breach of
contract cause of action. We believe
that the California Supreme Court's decision in Robinson precludes the
application of the economic loss rule to any intentional affirmative fraud
action where the plaintiff can establish that the fraud exposed the
plaintiff to liability.

The structure of the Robinson opinion supports
this conclusion. The first part of the Robinson opinion was concerned with
whether Dana's wrongful conduct constituted tortious conduct, not whether the
economic loss rule  [*329]  applied to it. It was only after the
court held that Dana's conduct was a tort independent of Dana's breach of
contract that the court addressed the application of the economic loss rule.
(Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 991.) The
analysis that followed suggested that fraud itself is immune from application
of the economic loss rule because fraud is particularly blameworthy and
therefore unlike both contract causes of action and products liability causes
of action. Although the court suggested that its decision was a narrow one, its
explicit limits did not exclude a fraud cause of action such as the one pleaded
by plaintiffs.

Here, plaintiffs alleged that defendants'
affirmative misrepresentations about the dangers of low-level lead exposure,
upon which they justifiably relied, had caused plaintiffs to fail to make
timely efforts to prevent and treat low-level lead exposure. The delay in
instituting prevention and treatment caused more people to be exposed and
increased the cost of treatment for those who had been exposed or continued to
be exposed. In addition, plaintiffs, as the owners of numerous buildings
containing unremediated lead, continued to expose people to low levels of lead
that plaintiffs believed were not harmful due to defendants'
misrepresentations. These people who were exposed to low levels of lead in
plaintiffs' buildings may hold plaintiffs liable for the permanent damage to
their bodies that no amount of prevention or treatment can now completely
remediate. Thus, plaintiffs' potential
liability to these people is independent of the economic harm to plaintiffs
from the additional costs of prevention and treatment. Accordingly, we conclude that the economic loss doctrine
does not apply to plaintiffs' fraud cause of action, and we proceed to
address whether defendants established that plaintiffs' fraud cause of action
had accrued more than three years prior to the March 2000 filing of the
original complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d) [three-year limitations period
for fraud].)


(County of
Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 326-29
[bold emphasis and underlining added].)
Defendant cites federal district court cases which hold that
the economic loss rule exception set forth in Robinson Helicopter is distinguishable from this case because
that exception was expressly limited to a defendant's affirmative
misrepresentation, not fraud by omission. The Court chooses to follow the line
of reasoning found in other district cases that there is no meaningful
distinction between intentional concealment and intentional misrepresentation
for purposes of applying the economic loss rule. (See, e.g., NuCal
Foods, Inc. v. Quality Egg LLC (E.D. Cal. 2013) 918 F.
Supp.2d 1023, 1031-33.)


Plaintiff's fraud claim is not barred by the economic loss rule in
any respect. See Robinson, 34 Cal.4th at
999 ("[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious
only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising from
principles of tort law."). Plaintiff alleges that defendant intentionally
concealed, omitted, and/or failed to disclose that its farms and hens were
contaminated with SE. (FAC ¶¶ 151-155.) Moreover,
plaintiff alleges that as of July 9, 2010, defendant falsely represented it
would comply with the new FDA egg rule, which required defendant to disclose
positive SE tests. (Id. ¶ 156.) Plaintiff relied
on defendant's intentional omissions and misrepresentations by continuing to
purchase and resell eggs that were potentially contaminated. (Id. ¶ 157.) As a result, plaintiff suffered
damages. (Id. ¶ 158.)
 
Defendant argues the economic loss rule, as interpreted in Robinson,
forecloses recovery for failure to disclose or intentional concealment. (ECF 70
at 8.) It also asserts plaintiff's intentional misrepresentation theory is
barred by the economic loss rule. (Id. (citing Robinson and Multifamily
Captive Group, LLC v. Assurance Risk Managers, Inc., 629 F. Supp. 2d 1135,
1146 (E.D. Cal. 2009).)
Robinson explicitly did not address the question whether a
case involving material omissions, rather than affirmative
misrepresentation, would similarly be exempt from the economic loss rule. Robinson, 34 Cal. 4th at 991. The opinion strongly suggests no meaningful
distinction exists between intentional concealment and intentional
misrepresentation; rather, the material distinction is whether the tortious conduct was intentional or
negligent. Id. at 990 (noting that California
courts have found exceptions to the economic loss rule in this noncontractual
duty category where a defendant's conduct was committed "intending or
knowing that such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of
mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential
damages"). Moreover, it is plausible some amount of plaintiff's
damages, whether economic or not, would not have been incurred had defendant
informed plaintiff about the positive SE tests rather than intentionally
concealing  [*1032]  them. Additionally, Multifamily
Captive Group does not contradict Robinson in any way
and is inapplicable to the instant case; there, the alleged misrepresentation
was the contract itself. 629 F. Supp. 2d at 1146. Here, as in Robinson, plaintiff alleges intentional misconduct beyond
the contract between the parties.
 
Ultimately, the court finds Robinson controls the
question whether an independent duty exists in this case such that plaintiff's
fraud claim can go forward on any theory of intentionally tortious conduct. In Robinson, the defendant made affirmative
misrepresentations and/or concealed material facts regarding the specifications of sprag clutches the plaintiff used
in manufacturing helicopters. Robinson, 34 Cal. 4th at
985. Based on this misrepresentation, the plaintiff accepted and installed
the clutches, ultimately causing plaintiff's damages, which were
quintessentially economic. Id. at 992-93. No injuries or
damage to other property, including helicopters, was alleged; rather, the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and its British equivalent required the
plaintiff to recall and replace all the faulty clutch assemblies. Id. at
985. In reversing the appeals court for barring the plaintiff's fraud and
intentional misrepresentation claims based upon the economic loss rule, the
California Supreme Court held that the plaintiff's claims were independent of
the defendant's breach of contract. Id. at 991. But for
the defendant's misrepresentations, the plaintiff "would not have
accepted delivery and used the nonconforming clutches . . . nor would it have
incurred the cost of investigating the cause of the faulty clutches . . .
[a]ccordingly, [defendant's] tortious conduct was separate from the breach
itself, which involved [defendant's] provision of the nonconforming
clutches." Id. at 990-91. Additionally, the court
noted the defendant's provision of faulty clutches exposed the plaintiff to
"liability for personal damages if a helicopter crashed and to
disciplinary action by the FAA." Id. (citing Erlich,
21 Cal. 4th at 553-54).
 
Here, but for defendants' alleged intentional
misrepresentations and omissions relating to the high risk and then the
existence of SE in their farms, hens, and eggs, plaintiff alleges it would not
have accepted delivery of and sold the nonconforming eggs, nor would plaintiff
have incurred the same amount of damages. (FAC ¶¶ 151-159.) Defendant's breach
of contract involved selling nonconforming eggs from nonconforming farms; its
tortious conduct involved, at least, its intentional failure to disclose that its
farms, hens, and possibly eggs were infected with SE. Plaintiff pleads this
intentionally tortious conduct clearly in the operative complaint:
"Defendants failed to disclose problems at their farms to NuCal because
they knew that NuCal would have stopped purchasing from defendants . . .
." (Id. ¶ 154.) Like the defendant in Robinson, defendant here has
also allegedly exposed plaintiff to liability for personal damages for some of
the 62,000 people who were sickened as a result of this SE outbreak and to potential  [*1033]  disciplinary
action by government authorities, such as the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). (See id. ¶¶ 1, 15.) In
short, the "economic loss rule is designed to limit liability in
commercial activities that negligently or inadvertently go awry, not
to reward malefactors who affirmatively misrepresent and put people at
risk." Robinson, 34 Cal. 4th at 991 n.7.
 
Finally, defendants' conduct violated social policy such that tort
remedies are appropriate. Id. at
991-92  ("[C]ourts will generally enforce the breach of a
contractual promise through contract law, except when the actions that
constitute the breach violate a social policy that merits the imposition of
tort remedies." (quoting Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil
Co., 11 Cal. 4th 85, 107, 44 Cal. Rptr. 2d 420, 900 P.2d 669 (Cal. 1994)).
However, courts should apply tort remedies only when a defendant's conduct is
"so clear in its deviation from socially useful business practices that
the effect of enforcing such tort duties will be . . . to aid rather than
discourage commerce." Id. at 992 (quoting Erlich,
21 Cal. 4th at 554). Defendant's alleged conduct is a clear violation of
social policy. Imposing tort liability is consistent with the policy goal of
reassuring egg wholesalers, retailers, and consumers that the eggs they
purchase are safe for consumption. Contract damages are insufficient here, as
in Robinson, because "no rational party would enter into a
contract anticipating that they are or will be lied to." Id. at
993. Additionally, "parties should
be able to allocate risks regarding negligent product design or manufacture,
[but] those same parties cannot, and should not, be expected to anticipate
fraud and dishonesty in every transaction." Id. (quoting Steven C. Tourek, Thomas H. Boyd
& Charles J. Schoenwetter, Bucking the "Trend":
The Uniform Commercial Code, the Economic Loss Doctrine, and Common Law Causes
of Action for Fraud and Misrepresentation, 84 Iowa L. Rev. 875, 909 (1999)).
Plaintiff's fraud claim may proceed in its entirety.

(Nucal Foods v. Quality Egg LLC (E.D.Cal. 2013) 918
F.Supp.2d 1023, 1031-33 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            In this regard, the Court finds the
reasoning in Dhital v. Nissan North Am. Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
828, 837-43 to be persuasive.
            This ground
for demurrer is not persuasive.
2.         Fourth
(“Fifth”) Cause of Action (Negligent Repair).
            A.        Re: Economic Loss Rule.
            This
cause of action is based on the allegation that Defendant Ken Grody Ford
breached its duty to use ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store,
prepare and repair the subject vehicle. (1AC, ¶ 106.)
            This
argument is not persuasive because Defendant Ken Grody Ford is not alleged to
be the manufacturer of the vehicle. If Defendant Ken Grody Ford caused physical
damage to the vehicle by virtue of attempted repairs, this is outside the scope
of the economic loss rule.
Where
alleged negligence has caused personal [*588]  injury
or property damage and economic loss, the existence of a duty of
care is the rule, not the exception. (Civ. Code, § 1714; Elam v.
College Park Hospital (1982) 132 Cal.App.3d 332, 339 [183 Cal. Rptr.
156] [“‘Duty’ is thus presumed …”].) And under these circumstances,
where a duty of care is presumed, courts consider the Cabral/Rowland factors
to determine whether “an exception to the general duty rule in Civil Code
section 1714” should be found. (Lichtman v. Siemans Industry Inc. (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 914, 921 [224 Cal. Rptr. 3d 725].)
 
Where the alleged negligence has caused economic loss, but no
personal injury or property damage, duty is not presumed. Rather, courts
examine the Biakanja factors to determine whether to impose on
the defendant “an exceptional duty to third parties.” (Centinela, supra,
1 Cal.5th at p. 1013.)
(S. Cal. Gas Leak Cases (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 581, 587-88.)
            Whether
Defendant Ken Grody Ford caused additional physical damage to the subject
vehicle is properly the subject of discovery, but the cause of action is
sufficiently pled for purposes of demurrer.
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend. 