 Case Number:  22STCV28496    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 31, 2022, Plaintiff Vera Merhavi (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Super Magnificent Coffee Company dba The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf,
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield, Westfield Topanga Owner LLC, Westfield Corp, and
Does 1-30 for negligence and premises liability. 
On
October 17, 2022, Defendants Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield,
Westfield Topanga Owner, LLC, and Westfield Corp. filed an answer. 
On
October 21, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
International Coffee & Tea, LLC as Doe 1. 
On
December 5, 2022, Defendant International
Coffee & Tea, LLC (“ICT”) filed an answer. 
On
January 19, 2023, the Court granted specially appearing
Defendant Super Magnificent Coffee Company’s motion to quash service of the
summons and complaint and quashed service of the summons and complaint on
Defendant Super Magnificent Coffee Company. 
On
May 2, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant West Valley
Owner, LLC, as Doe 2. 
On
May 2, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendants Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield, Westfield
Topanga Owner LLC, and Westfield Corp with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for protective order to be heard on July
3, 2024.  On June 20, 2024, ICT filed an
opposition.  On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
On
June 24, 2024, the Court appointed Lili Merhavi Surkin to serve as Plaintiff’s
guardian ad litem. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 19, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
          Plaintiff asks the Court to issue a protective order (1)
preventing Defendants from deposing Plaintiff and her husband or requiring that
Defendant instead depose Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem and (2) preventing or
restricting Defendants’ ability to conduct Plaintiff’s medical examination. 
          ICT asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in
part: 
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective
order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following
directions: 
“(1) That the deposition not be taken at all. 
* * *
 “(6) That the deponent’s testimony be taken by
written, instead of oral, examination. 
“(7) That the method of discovery be interrogatories
to a party instead of an oral deposition. . . ." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subds. (a), (b)(1), (b)(6), (b)(7).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about November 7, 2021, Plaintiff tripped and fell on a dangerous condition while
she was a guest and/or patron at 6316 Topanga Canyon Boulevard, #1100, Woodland
Hills, CA 91367.  Defendants
knew or should have known about the dangerous condition and failed to repair or
warn about it.  As the result of
Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff suffered damages. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to issue a protective order preventing Defendants from taking her deposition or the
deposition of her husband, Simon Merhavi, or restricting Defendants to deposing
Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem by written interrogatories in place of deposing Plaintiff and her husband.  Plaintiff also asks the Court to prevent or
restrict Defendants’ ability to conduct Plaintiff’s medical examination. 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff has
Alzheimer’s disease.  To support her motion, Plaintiff asserts that she has moderate dementia, cannot care for herself, cannot reliably or consistently recall historical
information, cannot understand the consequences of
perjury or taking an oath of truth, would not realize if she was being
untruthful, is suffering from anxiety due to lack of cognitive awareness and
poor memory, and would likely be traumatized and may display aggressive
behavior in response to being placed in a legal environment, compromising her
present medical therapy and requiring drastic medical intervention. 
It is also undisputed that Plaintiff's husband Simon
Merhavi has Alzheimer’s disease.  To support her motion, Plaintiff asserts that her husband (1) cannot get up, walk, talk, or
remember, (2) receives 24/7 nurse and family care, (3) is bedridden, and (4) uses
a cane to walk. 
Plaintiff
has provided a declaration from her counsel purporting to support these
assertions.  However, the declaration
cites only itself to support many of its statements. 
Counsel has not established that he has personal knowledge of any facts
or events that took place before or outside of his representation of Plaintiff or that he has
medical expertise. 
Counsel’s
declaration includes the following attachments: 
(1)   A December 14, 2023 letter from Wei Mi, M.D., stating:
“Mrs. Vera Merhavi is currently under my care for
Alzheimer’s disease.  She is not mentally
capable to make financial or health decision. 
If any questions arise, please feel free to contact me at [phone
number].” 
(2)   A December 14, 2023 letter from Wei Mi, M.D., stating:
“Mr. Simon Merhavi is currently under my care for Alzheimer’s disease.  Patient is not mentally capable to make health
or financial decision.  If any questions
arise, please feel free to contact me at [phone number].” 
(3)   Meet and confer correspondence with opposing counsel. 
(4)   An April 4, 2024 letter from Wei Mi, M.D., stating:
“Mrs. Vera Merhavi is currently under my care
for Alzheimer’s disease.  She is not
mentally capable to make financial or health decision.  Due to her medical illness, she has short
term and even long term memory loss, trouble to understand and comprehend
concept, and difficulty to process information. 
If any question arises, please feel free to contact me at [phone
number].” 
(5)   A June 8, 2022 letter from Rajan Patel, M.D., discussing Plaintiff’s physical therapy, including the statement that Plaintiff
“does appear to be a stable and safe ambulator.” 
These
attachments do not support Plaintiff’s contention that she cannot understand the consequences of perjury or
taking an oath of truth, would not realize if she was being untruthful, is
suffering from anxiety due to lack of cognitive awareness and poor memory, and
would likely be traumatized and may display aggressive behavior in response to
being placed in a legal environment, compromising her present medical therapy
and requiring drastic medical intervention. 
Likewise,
the attachments do not support Plaintiff’s contention that her husband cannot
get up, walk, talk, or remember, receives 24/7 nurse and family care, and is
bedridden. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiff Vera Merhavi’s motion
for a protective order. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.