 Case Number:  22STCV26585    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.  
Case
number 22STCV26585 
On August
16, 2022, Plaintiff Rosalio Cibrian, Jr. (“Cibrian”)
filed an action against Defendants Saul Arevalo, Valos Towing and Does 1-25 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
(Case number 22STCV26585.) 
On October 21, 2022, Defendants
Saul Arevalo (“Arevalo”) and Velos Towing, Inc. (erroneously sued and served as
Valos Towing) (“Velos”) filed an answer. 
On November
3, 2023, Arevalo and Velos filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Dario Alvarenga (“Alvarenga”) and
Roes 1-10 for indemnification, contribution, declaratory relief, and property
damage.  On January 2, 2024, Alvarenga
filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
B.   Case number 22STCV27761 
On
August 16, 2022, Alvarenga filed an action against Defendants
Arevalo, Valos Towing, Does 1-10, the remaining employees and agents of Valos
Towing, and Does 11-100 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  (Case number
22STCV27761.) 
On
February 24, 2023, Arevalo and Velos filed an answer. 
C.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases 
On December
29, 2023, the Court found that case
numbers 22STCV26585 and 22STCV27761 are related within the meaning of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  Case number 22STCV26585 became the lead case.  The cases were assigned to Department 28 of
the Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes. 
Also
on December 29, 2023, the Court consolidated the cases for all purposes based
on the parties’ stipulation.  Case number 22STCV26585 remained the lead case.  
Trial
is currently set for April 3, 2025. 
D.   This motion 
On
March 27, 2024, Alvarenga filed a motion for good faith settlement
determination, to be heard on June 5, 2024. 
The Court continued the hearing to July 3, 2024.  No party has filed an opposition. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Alvarenga
asks the Court to find his settlement with Cibrian is in good faith. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6 provides in part: 
“(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of
the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or
before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has
commenced. 
“(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing
of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good
faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The
notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement. 
“(b) The issue of the good faith of a settlement may
be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its
discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing. 
“(c) A determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault. 
“(d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall
have the burden of proof on that issue. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).) 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts must
consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6:
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.  
Cibrian’s
complaint 
Cibrian’s
complaint alleged the following: 
On
August 29, 2020, at or near Roscoe Boulevard and Louise Avenue in the Los
Angeles, Alvarenga was driving a vehicle in which Cibrian was the front seat
passenger.  Alvarenga attempted to make a
left turn from Louise onto Roscoe Boulevard when Arevalo, who was speeding in
the opposite direction on Louise, suddenly collided with Cibrian’s vehicle. 
Arevalo
and Does 1-25 negligently owned, maintained, operated and drove Arevalo’s
vehicle, causing Cibrian’s injuries and damages. 
B.   The cross-complaint against Alvarenga 
The
cross-complaint filed by Arevalo and Velos alleged that Alvarenga and Roe Cross-Defendants
were responsible for some or all of Cibrian’s damages and were responsible for
damage to Arevalo’s vehicle. 
C.   Alvarenga’s motion for good faith settlement
determination 
In City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251 (City of
Grand Terrace), the Court of Appeal observed: 
“[O]f the hundreds of motions for good faith
determination presented for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming
majority are unopposed and granted summarily by the trial court. At the time of
filing in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop.
If each motion required a full recital by declaration or affidavit setting
forth a complete factual response to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,
literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions
would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would
waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients' resources. It must also be
remembered that Tech-Bilt was decided on a contested basis. We are
unaware of any reported decision which has reversed an uncontested good faith
determination and we, therefore, conclude that only when the good faith nature
of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider
and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects,
the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by
a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.”  (City of Grand Terrace,
supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.) 
Here,
Alvarenga has submitted a barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good
faith and is accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background
of the case.  No opposition has been
filed.  Therefore, the Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Dario Alvarenga’s motion for a determination that
the settlement between Plaintiff Rosalio Cibrian, Jr. and Cross-Defendant
Dario Alvarenga was made in good faith. The
Court dismisses all pending and future claims against Cross-Defendant Dario
Alvarenga by the parties served with this motion (to the extent those claims
arise from the facts giving rise to this case), including cross-complaints for
equitable indemnity. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.