  Case Number:  23STCV22368    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Michael Morris-Nussbaum’s
Six Motions to Compel Discovery Responses and Two Motions to Deem Matters
Admitted
            Plaintiff
Michael Norris-Nussbaum moves to compel each defendant, Hyundai Motor America,
Inc. and Mission Hills-H, Inc., to serve responses to form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and requests for production.  Plaintiff further moves for an order deeming
admitted the matters specified in requests for admission against each
defendant.
            All
eight motions are defective.  Motions to
compel responses and motions to deem matters admitted are only proper when the
responding party “fails to serve a timely response.”  (CCP §§ 2030.290 [interrogatories], 2031.300
[requests for production], 2033.280 [requests for admission].)  Plaintiff’s motions acknowledge defendants timely
served responses to these discovery requests. 
(Ostoia Decls., ¶¶ 6-8, Ex. 3.) 
The responses were only objections. 
Defendants therefore did not have to verify them under oath.  (CCP §§ 2030.250(a), 2031.250(a), 2033.240(a).)  Ordering defendants to provide substantive
responses without objections would require moving to compel further
responses under Code of Civil Procedure section sections 2030.300, 2031.310,
and 2033.290.  These are the wrong
motions.  
As to compelling further responses, plaintiff’s
motions are defective because they do not include separate statements.  “Any motion involving the content of a
discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a
separate statement.  The motions that
require a separate statement include a motion: (1) To compel further responses
to requests for admission; (2) To compel further responses to interrogatories; (3)
To compel further responses to a demand for inspection of documents or tangible
things.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).)  Plaintiff did not submit the
required separate statements including the contents of each disputed request
and response.
These motions are also defective as to compelling
further responses because they are untimely.  Notice of a motion to compel further
responses must be served within 45 days of the responses.  (CCP §§ 2030.300(c) [interrogatories],
2031.310(c) [requests for production], 2033.290(c) [requests for admission].)  Defendants served their responses on January
23, 2024.  (Ostoia Decls., ¶ 8, Ex.
3.)  Plaintiff served these motions on
April 15, 83 days later. 
Sanctions
            In their oppositions to all eight motions,
defendants move for sanctions against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel.  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction …
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response to [interrogatories or a demand for inspection],
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (CCP §§ 2030.290(c)
[interrogatories], 2031.300(c) [requests for production].)  “The court
may also impose [a monetary] sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that
another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney
who advised that assertion, or on both.” 
(CCP § 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are appropriate.  Plaintiff
unsuccessfully moved to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production.  As to the requests for
admission, plaintiff unsuccessfully moved for sanctions against defendants on
the grounds that they engaged in misuse of the discovery process.  Plaintiff did not act with substantial
justification.  Plaintiff’s eight motions
are all defective in three different ways. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Defendants reasonably incurred the expenses
they seek via their oppositions.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to compel defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. to
respond to form interrogatories is denied.  Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A.
Ostoia are ordered to pay defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. $280.15
in sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to compel defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. to
respond to special interrogatories is denied.  Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A.
Ostoia are ordered to pay defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. $440.15
in sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to compel defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. to
respond to requests for production is denied.  Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A.
Ostoia are ordered to pay defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. $420.15
in sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to deem matters admitted against defendant Hyundai
Motor America, Inc. is denied. 
Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A. Ostoia are ordered to
pay defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. $880.15 in sanctions within 20 days.
Plaintiff Michael Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to compel
defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. to respond to form interrogatories is denied.  Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A.
Ostoia are ordered to pay defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. $340.15 in
sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to compel defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. to respond
to special interrogatories is denied. 
Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A. Ostoia are ordered to
pay defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. $440.15 in sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to compel defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. to respond
to requests for production is denied. 
Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A. Ostoia are ordered to
pay defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. $300.15 in sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff Michael
Morris-Nussbaum’s motion to deem matters admitted against defendant Mission
Hills-H, Inc. is denied. 
Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel Adina A. Ostoia are ordered to
pay defendant Mission Hills-H, Inc. $400.15 in sanctions within 20 days.
            Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel
are jointly and severally liable for all sanctions.