 Case Number:  23STCV22536    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc.’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
and Request for Production to Defendant Jara Blash
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc., doing business as RA Consulting, moves to compel
defendant/cross-complainant Jara Blash to further respond to special
interrogatories, set two, Nos. 41-43 and request for production, set two, No.
48.
A party propounding
interrogatories may move to compel further responses when an answer “is evasive
or incomplete,” “[a]n exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate,” or “[a]n objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”  (CCP § 2030.300(a).)  A party demanding documents may move to
compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or
too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
Blash properly
objected that the disputed special interrogatories and request for production
are not reasonably calculated to lead to discoverable information.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 governs the scope of
discovery: “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Discovery may relate to the claim or defense
of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.  Discovery may be obtained of the identity and
location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of
the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.”
The subject
interrogatories and request for production seek information and documents about
“who is financing [Blash’s] defense in this case.”  Whether someone else is funding Blash’s defense is wholly
irrelevant to the subject matter of this action and to the parties’ claims and
defenses.  It concerns the litigation
itself, not the underlying claims.  “
‘[F]ee and litigation funding agreements’ are generally discoverable only when
there is ‘a specific, articulated reason to suspect bias or conflicts of interest.’
”  (NantWorks, LLC v. Niantic, Inc.
(N.D. Cal., May 12, 2022, No. 20-CV-06262-LB) 2022 WL 1500011, at *2.)  
Plaintiff
argues this information is relevant to settlement, akin to the form
interrogatories asking about insurance coverage.  But insurance coverage is discoverable
pursuant to a specific statute providing an exception to the general scope of
discovery.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2017.210 provides, “A party may obtain discovery of the existence and
contents of any agreement under which any insurance carrier may be liable to
satisfy in whole or in part a judgment that may be entered in the action or to
indemnify or reimburse for payments made to satisfy the judgment.  This discovery may include the identity of the
carrier and the nature and limits of the coverage.  A party may also obtain discovery as to
whether that insurance carrier is disputing the agreement’s coverage of the
claim involved in the action, but not as to the nature and substance of that
dispute. Information concerning the insurance agreement is not by reason of
disclosure admissible in evidence at trial.” 
These discovery requests do not ask about insurance coverage. 
Plaintiff’s
papers also include a misleading partial quote from federal authority.  The memoranda state: “Impact Engine, Inc.
v. Google LLC, 2020 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 145636, at *4-5 n.2 (S.D. Cal. Aug.
12, 2020) (Court held that litigation funding agreements and related documents
were relevant, explaining: ‘courts have generally ruled that litigation funding
agreements and related documents are relevant and discoverable’ to establish
the value of the claims, and for settlement purposes.)”  (Motion, p. 10.)  In full, the quoted sentence from that case states,
“[C]ourts have generally ruled that litigation funding agreements and related
documents are relevant and discoverable in patent litigation.”  (Impact Engine, supra, at *4, italics
added.)  This is not patent
litigation.  Impact Engine also
cites a published decision finding, “Plaintiffs’ litigation funding is a ‘side issue’
that has nothing to do with addressing the key issues in the case.”  ((In re Valsartan N-Nitrosodimethylamine
(NDMA) Contamination Prods. Liab. Litig. (D.N.J. 2019) 405 F. Supp. 3d
612, 616.)  The court reaches the same
conclusion here.
Plaintiff
also cites a standing order from the Northen District of California and a local
rule in the Central District of California requiring a party to identify others
with a financial interest in the proceeding. 
Those rules do not apply in this court.
Plaintiff
further argues this information is discoverable because it may prove Blash’s
current employer is funding her defense, which could result in additional
claims against that entity, or evidence of a “conspiracy to steal RA
Consulting’s clients.”  Plaintiff has not
sued Blash’s employer.  Potential claims
against non-parties are not part of “the subject matter involved in the pending
action.”  (CCP § 2017.010.)
Blash’s objections to special interrogatories Nos. 41-43 and
request for production No. 48 are sustained.    
Blash also objected
to these discovery requests based on attorney-client privilege, attorney work
product, and Blash’s privacy rights.  Addressing
the merits of these objections is unnecessary. 
The court declines to do so.  
Potential Motion to Disqualify Blash’s Counsel
Plaintiff
argues its discovery requests seek information relevant to a potential motion to
disqualify Blash’s counsel.  Plaintiff
relies on federal authority that funding information can be relevant to
determining an attorney’s adequacy to represent a potential class.  (Guse v. J.C. Penney Co., Inc. (E.D.
Wis. 1976) 409 F.Supp. 28, 30 [“as to the issue whether the plaintiff is an
adequate class representative for purposes of Rule 23(a)(4), the relevant
inquiry concerning the ability to fund the costs of a class action focuses upon
the assets of the plaintiff’s attorney”]; Gbarabe v. Chevron Corporation
(N.D. Cal., Aug. 5, 2016, No. 14-CV-00173-SI) 2016 WL 4154849, at *2
[discussing “relevance of the funding agreement to the class certification
adequacy determination”].)  This case is
not a class action.  Blash’s
cross-complaint alleges a claim under the Private Attorneys General Action,
where “class action requirements” do not apply. 
(Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 977.)  There will be no adequacy determination.  
Plaintiff
also contends, “[I]t appears that Defendant Blash’s new employer is
trying to steal RA Consulting’s clients using Defendant Blash, which creates a
conflict of interest.  This is plainly
evidenced by Defendant Blash’s new employer stealing RA Consulting’s former
client, San Diego Comic Convention.” 
(Motion, p. 10.)  Assuming that is
true, plaintiff does not articulate how that presents a conflict of
interest.  Blash and her new employer would
share the interest in “stealing” plaintiff’s clients.  Plaintiff’s papers themselves refer to a
“conspiracy to steal RA Consulting’s clients” (Motion, p. 12), meaning Blash
and her employer share a joint interest adverse to plaintiff.  
Disposition
Plaintiff
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories, set two, is denied. 
Plaintiff Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc.’s motion to compel further
responses to requests for production, set two, is denied.