  Case Number:  22TRCV01596    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  P Motion for Leave to File a Cross-ComplaintThe court considered the moving papers.RULINGDefendant Inglewood Unified School District’s unopposed Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDI. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn December 23, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe (D.F.) filed the complaint against Defendants Inglewood Unified School District and Does 1 through 10. The complaint alleges six causes of action: (1) sexual harassment, (2) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, (3) breach of mandatory duty, (4) negligent failure to warn, train, or educate, (4) negligent supervision of a minor, (5) negligent supervision of a minor, and (6) negligence.On May 29, 2024, Defendant Inglewood Unified School District filed the instant motion. As of June 17, 2024, Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Southwest District Torrance Dept. PJANE DOE (D.F.), Plaintiff, Case No.: 22TRCV01596vs. [TENTATIVE] RULINGINGLEWOOD UNIFIEDSCHOOL DISTRICT, A PUBLICCALIFORNIA CORPORATION,et al. Defendants.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff filed this action on December 23, 2022, alleging that between approximately 2007 and 2010, while a student at Inglewood High School, her teacher, Garrett Lee, sexually abused her when she was 16 and 17 years old. Plaintiff alleges that in September 2010, in the final semester of her senior year, she gave birth to a child with Garrett Lee. Plaintiff sued the District, but not Garrett Lee. (See Complaint attached as Exhibit A.) The District now wishes to assert equitable indemnification and apportionment claims against Garrett Lee.III. LEGAL STANDARDCode of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: “A party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth … (b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(a)-(b); see also Newhall Land & Farming Co. v. McCarthy Constr. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 769, 773.)IV. DISCUSSIONA. Positions of the Partiesa. Moving Party’s ArgumentsDefendant Inglewood Unified School District (“District”), moves pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 426.50, 428.10, and 428.50 et seq., for leave to file a cross-complaintagainst Garrett Lee. The District wishes to assert equitable indemnification and apportionment claims against Garrett Lee. (See Horwich v. Superior Court (1999) 21 Cal.4th 272, 285 [“principles of comparative fault and equitable indemnification support an apportionment of liability among those responsible for the loss”].) Granting leave to file the cross-complaint against Garrett Lee will promote judicial efficiency and expediency by allowing resolution of all related claims in a single judicial proceeding.b. Responding Party’s OppositionNonec. Moving Party’s ReplyNoneB. Legal AnalysisHere, the proposed cross-complaint arises from the same transaction and occurrence from Plaintiff’s complaint. For instance, Plaintiff alleges she was groomed, sexually assaulted, and sexually molested by Garrett Lee while he was employed by the District. (Complaint at p.1.) Plaintiff alleges some of the sexual abuse of plaintiff occurred using the tasks, premises, orinstrumentalities that the District entrusted to Garrett Lee, including classrooms. (Id. at ¶ 33.) Plaintiff alleges she sustained physical and psychological distress, humiliation, fright, dissociation, anger, depression, anxiety, family turmoil, and loss of faith, a severe shock to her nervous system, physical pain and mental anguish, and emotional and psychological damage as a result of the alleged sexual assault and abuse by Garrett Lee. (Id. at ¶ 49.)The District contends Garrett Lee is at fault for the same injuries Plaintiff claims in this action and its cross-complaint alleges arises from the same incident and therefore seeks to assert equitable indemnification and apportionment claims against Garrett Lee. The cross-complaint alleges five causes of action against Garrett Lee and Roes 1 through 10. The cross-complaint alleges “[o]n December 23, 2022, Plaintiff JANE DOE (D.F.), (“Plaintiff”), commenced an action for personal injuries as alleged in the Complaint entitled Jane Doe (D.F), and individual vs. Inglewood Unified School District, a public California Corporation; and DOES 1-10, inclusive, in the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, Case No. 22TRCV01596.Plaintiff alleges in her Complaint that between approximately 2007 to 2010, Plaintiff was a minor student of INGLEWOOD UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT and she was groomed, sexually assaulted, and sexually molested by Garrett Lee, a teacher of INGLEWOOD UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT.” (Cross-Complaint at ¶ 6.) Thus, the facts arise from the same incident. “[T]he practical advantage of requiring that actions for indemnity be brought by way of cross-complaint is the consolidation of related evidence and matters of proof in a single judicial proceeding.” (Valley Circle Estates v. Vtn Consol. (1983) 33 Cal.3d 604, 614.) “The cross complaint serves the purpose of permitting a complete determination of the dispute among all the parties, thus avoiding circuity of proceedings. Combining these causes in a single trial is an efficient utilization of limited judicial resources.” (Id.) A single trial allows for “more orderly and expeditious resolution of the controversy.” (E. L. White, Inc. v. Huntington Beach (1978) 21 Cal.3d 497, 506.)As the proposed cross-complaint directly relates to the causes of action against the District, the Court finds good cause to allow Defendant to file its cross-complaint. “[T]he general rule of liberal construction of pleadings and of liberal allowance of amendments should prevail.” (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)V. CONCLUSIONThus, DEFENDANT’S UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT is GRANTED.