 Case Number:  22STCV29373    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL PMK DEPOSITIONS AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/13/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29373 RUBEN MELIKOFF vs
SAFEWAY INC., et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: The Vons Company
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL EMPLOYEE AND PMK
DEPOSITIONS AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Background
On January 16, 2024,
Plaintiff sent Defendant a notice for 4 employee depositions and a PMK (Person
Most Knowledgeable) deposition relating to seven topics. On January 25, 2024, because
of scheduling issues, defense counsel requested that the depositions be taken
off calendar, which apparently occurred. On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
followed up, requesting new dates for the same deponents, but received no
response from Defendant.
On May 6, 2024,
Plaintiff sent out an amended notice for the employee and PMK depositions to
take place on May 20, 2024. On May 16, 2024, Defendant served objections to the
amended deposition notices, stating that they would meet and confer on mutual
dates. After not hearing from defense counsel regarding mutual dates, on June
25, 2024, Plaintiff sent an email to defense counsel advising counsel to
provide available dates for the deponents to avoid motions to compel. The next
day, Defendant stated that his client had been unavailable that week, and
counsel would provide Plaintiff with deposition dates the following week.
Plaintiff responded, giving Defendant until July 1 to provide the dates.
However, no dates were provided by July 1, 2024, nor were any provided as of
July 22, 2024, when the present motions were filed. Plaintiff now moves to
compel Defendant's PMK depositions.
Legal Standard
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides:
(a) If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served
a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.(
(b) A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described
in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
Discussion
Depositions
Defendant first argues
that there is no basis for this motion because a valid objection has been
filed. Although Defendant’s objection was timely filed, it is not “valid.”
Pursuant to CCP § 2017.010, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action. Defendant’s objection, based on the unavailability of the
deponents and Defendant’s attorney on the scheduled deposition date, does not
meet the criteria for a valid objection. It neither challenges the relevancy of
the deposition, raises issues related to privilege or privacy, nor does it
relate to any deficiencies in the form or scope of the request. 
Furthermore, while the
Court recognizes that there may be scheduling conflicts that need to be
resolved for a deposition to proceed, any scheduling issues should have been
resolved in 7 months if the parties were genuinely committed to resolving them.
Furthermore, Defendant’s counsel even assured Plaintiff that deponents’
availability would be provided within a week of June 26, 2024; however, no such
information was forthcoming as of July 22, 2024, when the current motion was
filed. Therefore, the Court finds Defendant’s objection to be invalid,
particularly as Defendant failed to fulfill its commitment to meet and confer
and to schedule the deposition on mutually agreeable dates, as stated in the objection.
Defendant then argues
that there is no improper failure to appear, a condition required by CCP §
2025.450. However, the language of the statute provides that a party can compel
a deposition when another party fails to appear for examination or fails to
proceed with it. Defendant has failed to proceed with the deposition, repeatedly
failing to provide an agreeable date for such examination to occur.
Defendant finally
argues this motion should be denied for lack of meet and confer efforts. While Plaintiff
could have been more proactive in its meet and confer efforts, it appears to
the Court that Plaintiff did, make efforts to meet and confer and to work with
Defendant to bring the requested depositions to fruition. Significantly, Defendant
stated that his client would be unavailable that the week of June 25 but
promised to provide Plaintiff with the deposition dates by the following week.
Plaintiff allowed Defendant until July 1, 2024, the Monday of the next week, to
provide these dates.  Defendant did not
provide the dates by July 1, 2024, nor by July 22, 2024, when the motion was
filed. Plaintiff’s counsel did enough to meet and confer. 
In sum, the depositions
were initially noticed on January 16, 2024, more than seven months ago, and Defendant
has failed to produce a deponent despite promises to provide dates for deposition.
The Court grants the present motion and orders that the employee and PMK
depositions be conducted within 14 days from today, thereby taking into
account, the August 26, 2024, discovery cut-off. 
Documents
The notice of
deposition includes a demand for production of documents, and Defendant seeks
an order compelling Plaintiff to produce all identified documents at her
deposition. The moving papers fail to show good cause for production of the
documents sought, as required by §2025.450(b)(1). There is no discussion of
good cause, and therefore the Court declines to enter an order compelling
Plaintiff to produce documents, but urges the parties to work together to
resolve any issues concerning documents without court intervention. 
Sanctions
The Court finds
sanctions appropriate under the circumstances, as Plaintiff reached out to
Defendant on multiple occasions to obtain the deponents’ availability, to which
none was provided. Plaintiff requests $1,669.95 in attorney’s fees, which the
Court finds reasonable. Defendant and its counsel are jointly and severally liable
for sanctions in the amount of $1,669.95, payable to Plaintiff within 30 days
from today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 