  Case Number:  21STCV26067    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/13/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV26067 BRITHNEY GONZALEZ
vs BRENDA JIMENEZ
Moving Party: Defendant Brenda Jimenez 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
On April 29, 2024,
Defendant Brenda Jimenez served Plaintiff with Special Interrogatories and
Request for Production of Documents, Set Three, which responses were due on or
before May 31, 2024. After not receiving Plaintiff’s timely discovery
responses, Defendant emailed Plaintiff’s Counsel on June 17, 2024, and
requested Plaintiff’s verified discovery responses, without objections, by June
24, 2024. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff Counsel’s office advised that they were
unable to locate the subject discovery requests and requested courtesy copies
of same, which Defense Counsel provided. However, as of July 10, 2024, the date
in which the present motions were filed, Plaintiff has not requested an
extension to provide her discovery responses nor has she provided said
discovery responses. Defendant now moves the court to compel initial responses
to the discovery requests at issue.
An opposition was not
filed, nor was there any other filing indicating to the Court that Plaintiff
had provided the discovery responses at issue prior to the hearing. Thus, the
present motions are granted, and Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete and
verified discovery responses without objections to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories
and Request for Production of Documents, Set Three.
Furthermore, sanctions
are mandatory, and the court does not find Plaintiff to have acted with
substantial justification. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of
$1,061.65 per motion, which the court finds generally reasonable. Plaintiff and
her attorney are jointly and severally liable for sanctions in the amount of
$2,000, payable to Defendant within 30 days from today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 