  Case Number:  22STCV37929    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
Esther
  Tendo Atam,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            Vs.
 
Southern
  California Permanente Medical Group (SCPMG), Cheryl Surma, Michael Zackos,
  Marla Hunt, Wilber Jones, And Xavier Edwards,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 22STCV37929
 
 Hearing Date: April 19, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Plaintiff’s
  Motion to Vacate Judgment of Dismissal
 
 



 
Background
            On
December 5, 2022, Esther Tendo Atam (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint alleging
three causes of action against the following defendants: Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (SCPMG), Cheryl Surma, Michael Zackos, Marla Hunt,
Wilber Jones, and Xavier Edwards (collectively, Defendants). On May 9, 2023, a
motion to dismiss filed by Defendants was granted in part and Plaintiff was
ordered to post a security of $10,000.00 pursuant to Civ. Code § 391.3 in light
of the determination by the Court that Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant. Due
to a typographical error, the Court corrected a prior minute order that
mistakenly directed Defendants to pay, instead of Plaintiff and allowed
Plaintiff 30 days to pay the $10,000.00 security, which meant that Plaintiff
was to post the $10,000 bond by July 13, 2023. That hearing was eventually
continued to December 13, 2023, by which time Plaintiff had failed to post the bond.
The case was dismissed with prejudice. 
The motion now before the Court is
Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate the Dismissal (the Motion). Defendants file an
opposition, and Plaintiff files a reply.  
Legal Standard          
            Plaintiff specifically points to
Code Civ. Proc. § 472(d) which provides that: “The court may, upon motion of
the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment
or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and
may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any
void judgment or order.” Additionally, “Although a trial court has discretion
to vacate the entry of a default or subsequent judgment, this discretion may be
exercised only after the party seeking relief has shown that there is a proper
ground for relief, and that the party has raised that ground in a procedurally
proper manner, within any applicable time limits.” (Cruz v. Fagor America,
Inc. (2007) 146 Cal. App. 4th 488, 495.)
Discussion
            Plaintiff
alleges that the ground for seeking to set aside the dismissal is fraud. The
Court cannot discern any fraudulent conduct by anyone from the arguments
presented, nor the attached exhibits to the Motion. 
            Plaintiff
first argues that another judge, Judge Michael Small, relied on misrepresented
facts by Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (Kaiser) in a motion for reconsideration
on Plaintiff’s status as a vexatious litigant. (Motion, 5:23-26.) However,
Kaiser is not a party in this case, and it is unclear in the Motion how Kaiser
caused or perpetuated fraud that would be pertinent in this matter. The Motion
goes on to state that Plaintiff’s prior attorney failed to disclose issues
naming the proper defendants in the matter. However, there is no nexus between
the alleged misrepresentation of facts (whatever those might be) by Kaiser or
mistakes by Plaintiff’s former attorney to any fraud committed on the Court or
otherwise.  
            Plaintiff
maintains that the vexatious litigant designation was an improper application
of the law by Judge Small, however, Plaintiff notes only that Judge Small did
not specify what subsection of the statute applied and gave no explanation of
how the law was applied on his case.  (Motion,
11:7-16.)
            Plaintiff’s
final arguments consist of criticisms of and inaccuracies in Judge Small’s case
management such as:·      
“Judge Small
relied on the wrong citation of the law to issue his order for security
deposit” (Motion 12:18-20)·      
“Judge Small
failed to check the fraud committed by Judge Steven Kleifield” in a separate
case. (Motion, 13:22-23)·      
“Judge Small
failed to prevent the BRN [Board of Registration of Nursing] from revoking my
license” (Motion, 17:17-18)·      
“Judge Small is
already disqualified from the case but still continues to preside over the
matter”To the extent
that Judge Small may have committed any error, Plaintiff’s recourse was to make
a motion for reconsideration before him or seek an appeal from his orders. Plaintiff
apparently has done neither.Plaintiff fails
to establish proper grounds for vacating the dismissal, which was in turn based
on Plaintiff’s failure to post the $10,000.00 security. Therefore, the Motion
is DENIED. Conclusion and ORDER            For the reasons stated, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Vacate the Dismissal is DENIED.Defendant
Southern California Permanente Medical Group is to give notice. DATED:          April 19, 2024                                                                         ___________________________                                                                                                      Yolanda Orozco
                                                                   Judge of the Superior Court
 