  Case Number:  23CHCV02317    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 13, 2024
 

MOTIONS TO FOR
LEAVE TO CONDUCT ADDITIONAL
INDEPENDENT
MEDICAL EXAMINATION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV02317

  
Motions Filed: 8/2/24                                                                                JURY TRIAL: 4/14/25
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Loretta Elaine Dubin (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Frankie P. Adams (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Orders for Plaintiff to submit to the
following independent medical examinations (“IMEs”):
1.     
An ophthalmological evaluation before Dr. Jerry
Sebag, M.D.;
2.     
An orthopedic evaluation before Dr. James
Kayvanfar, M.D.; and
3.     
A psychiatric evaluation before Dr. Manuel Saint
Martin, M.D., J.D.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The Court orders as follows:
1.     
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct an
additional ophthalmological evaluation of Plaintiff is DENIED.
2.     
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct an orthopedic evaluation of Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff
to submit to orthopedic examination with Dr. Kayvanfar and his staff as
outlined in Defendant’s demand, on a mutually agreeable date, at 24318 Walnut
Street Newhall, CA 91321. The examination may be recorded either by video
and/or audio.
3.     
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a
psychological evaluation of Plaintiff is CONTINUED. The parties’ counsel are
ordered to meet and further confer either telephonically or in-person within 45
days, to resolve and/or narrow all outstanding issues pertaining to the scope
of Plaintiff’s psychological examination. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a
declaration with the Court which confirms compliance with this order or
explains why no meaningful meet and confer occurred.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in
which Plaintiff alleges that on 12/22/22, at the intersection of Tampa
Boulevard and Plummer Street, Northridge, California, Defendant caused her
vehicle to rear-end Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Compl. p. 5.) 
 
On 8/2/23, Plaintiff filed his
complaint, alleging against Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Motor
Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence. On 11/15/23, Defendant filed
her answer.
 
On 8/2/24, Defendant filed the
instant motions for leave to conduct additional IMEs of Plaintiff. On 10/31/24,
Plaintiff filed his oppositions. On 11/6/24 and 11/7/24, Defendant filed her
replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff
is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one
physical examination of the plaintiff,” subject to certain guidelines. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.220.) A party may obtain discovery by means of a physical or
mental examination in an action in which the mental or physical condition of
the person to be examined is “in controversy.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.020, subd. (a).) A
motion and court order are required to obtain any additional physical or mental
examination of a party or party-affiliated individual. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.310, subd. (a).)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
“A motion for an examination under
subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id.
at subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel attaches
a 5/10/24 letter sent to Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the issues raised in the
instant motions. (Ex. 2 to Decl. of Ernie G. Figueora.) On 5/14/24, Plaintiff’s
counsel responded. (Ibid.) On 6/19/24, Defendant’s counsel sent another
email response, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary
requirements set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310,
subdivision (b).
 
B.    
Ophthalmological Examination
 
Here, in response to “Defendant’s
Form Interrogatory no. 6.2, Plaintiff attributes: ‘Traumatic Brain Injury; neck
pain; low back pain, mid back pain, bilateral shoulder pain, head pain,
dizziness, nausea, insomnia, headaches, ophthalmologic injuries, cognitive
injuries, vestibular injuries, depression, anxiety, and other ophthalmological
injuries …’ to the subject incident. The injuries are experienced upon a ‘daily’
or ‘chronic’ basis, according to Plaintiff’s response to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatory no. 6.3.” (Def.’s Ophth. Mot. 5:19–24, citing Ex. 1 to Figueora
Decl., 8:26–11:15.)
 
On 3/22/24, Plaintiff presented
himself for an ophthalmological examination with Dr. Sebag. (Figueora Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant contends
that a second ophthalmological examination is necessary because “Plaintiff
obstructed the exam and ultimately walked out of the proceeding prior to its
completion, [therefore] Dr. Sebag was not afforded a reasonable opportunity to
perform his examination.” (Def.’s Ophth. Mot. 2:12–15.) Defendant argues that
both Plaintiff and his observer were uncooperative with Dr. Sebag’s performance
of the exam. (Id. at 2:16–24, 6:17–27.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
“here, despite the objections and responses to the demand expressly indicated
that neither an injection of dye nor dilation of the eyes would be permitted,
without meeting and conferring regarding the matter nor moving to compel
compliance with their demand, moving Defendant instead went forward with the
examination - i.e., a voluntary decision made by Defendant and her counsel
which waived any attempt to obtain the intrusive and painful tests to which
Plaintiff objected.” (Pl.’s Ophth. Opp. 2:19–23.) Plaintiff further argues that
“at the examination, Dr. Sebag and an apparent assistant of his attempted to
undertake actions which were in violation of the response parameters agreed to
and laid out in Plaintiffs written response … accordingly, Plaintiff’s
representative at the examination informed Dr. Sebag and his apparent assistant
that such actions were not permitted. (Id. at 5:7–11, citing Decl. of
Arman Yurman, ¶ 3.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff
that to the extent that Defendant seeks full compliance with its original
demand for Plaintiff’s ophthalmological exam, Defendant has failed to move for
such relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.250. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250, subd. (a) [“If
a defendant who has demanded a physical examination under this article, on
receipt of the plaintiff’s response to that demand, deems that any modification
of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the physical examination is
unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order compelling compliance with
the demand.”].)
 
The Court further notes that
Defendant fails to address the issue of the subject tests being limited by
Plaintiff’s objections and responses to Defendant’s demand. Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has failed to show sufficient cause
for a second additional ophthalmological examination of Plaintiff. Accordingly,
the Court denies Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct such an examination.
 
C.   
Orthopedic Examination
 
On 6/18/24, Defendant served
Plaintiff with a notice of the subject orthopedic examination. (Ex. 3 to
Figueroa Decl.) However, “Plaintiff’s counsel has refused to grant the request
for an orthopedic medical examination despite attempts to meet and confer.
Given the nature and severity of injuries at issue, an orthopedic independent
medical examination is needed and very much warranted.” (Figueroa Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
Defendant argues that “as Plaintiff
has placed her [sic] physical condition at-issue in this case, Defendant most
certainly is entitled to discover the level of Plaintiff’s physical symptoms
prior to the subject incident, the existence of any pre-existing issues, as
well as to investigate the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s current and future
alleged physical injuries.” (Def.’s Ortho. Mot. 8:3–7.) In opposition,
Plaintiff agrees that the orthopedic examination will move forward on 2/28/25,
subject to Plaintiff’s limitations. (Pl.’s Ortho. Opp. 2:5–15.)
 
Defendant argues in reply that “Defendant
does not agree with or accede to Plaintiff’s Objections[.] Defendant needs to
investigate Plaintiff’s alleged orthopedic injuries to adequately prepare for
trial, so her expert is entitled to complete the IME sought herein without
obstruction, obfuscation and unwarranted restrictions.” (Def.’s Ortho. Reply 2:22–25.)
Defendant further argues that Plaintiff’s proposed restrictions, “seeking to
limit the scope of examination stating examination of knees, ankles, elbows,
wrists and grip strength off limits, as well as oral history limitations are
unreasonable and baseless restrictions designed to limit Defendant’s ability to
prepare for trial. These restrictions are especially unwarranted considering
Plaintiff’s own expert has performed some of the very same tests to which
Plaintiff objects.” (Id. at 4:6–10.)
 
The Court agrees with Defendant
that “Defendant is entitled to complete Plaintiff’s orthopedic examination
because Plaintiff has placed multiple, loosely defined, nebulous conditions
at-issue by listing ‘other orthopedic injuries’ as among the injuries caused by
the subject accident. Accordingly, Defendant most certainly is entitled to
discover the level of Plaintiff’s symptoms prior to the subject incident, the
existence of any pre-existing issues, as well as to investigate the nature and
extent of Plaintiff’s physical condition.” (Id. at 4:20–25.)
 
While the parties agree that the
proposed orthopedic examination may extend to Plaintiff’s neck, low back, and
bilateral shoulders, the Court finds that to the extent that Plaintiff’s expert
performed additional medical examinations of Plaintiff’s “detailed history,
straight leg and wrist testing,” with the expectation that these results will
be introduced as evidence at trial, Defendant is entitled to testing of the
same. (Decl. of Jason D. Ahdoot ¶
5.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has shown sufficient
cause for the orthopedic examination of Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Court
grants Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct such an examination.
 
D.   
Psychological Examination
 
On 7/19/24, Defendant served
Plaintiff with a notice of the subject psychiatric examination. (Ex. 3 to
Figueroa Decl.) However, “Plaintiff’s counsel has refused to grant the request
for a psychiatric evaluation despite attempts to meet and confer. Given the
nature and severity of injuries at issue, a psychiatric evaluation is needed
and very much warranted.” (Figueroa Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
Defendant has failed to adequately meet and confer or sufficiently describe the
tests to be performed at the examination. (Pl.’s Psych. Opp. 2:27–3:4, citing
Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.310, subd. (b) [“A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall
specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”].)
 
The Court notes that here, the
parties do not dispute that Plaintiff has placed his mental condition “in
controversy” such that a mental examination would be warranted. As Defendant
notes in reply, Plaintiff’s “opposition to this Motion does not address the
fact that Plaintiff has claimed both physical and mental injuries, which
entitles Defendant to the IME sought herein.” (Def.’s Psych. Reply 2:8–10.)
 
While the Court agrees with
Defendant that there is good cause for the psychological examination of
Plaintiff, as he has put his psychological condition in controversy, the Court
also agrees with Plaintiff that the parties have not sufficiently met and conferred
regarding the scope of the examination. Accordingly, the motion is continued,
and the parties’ counsel are ordered to meet and further confer either
telephonically or in-person within 45 days, to resolve and/or narrow all
outstanding issues pertaining to the scope of Plaintiff’s psychological
examination. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a declaration with the Court which
confirms compliance with this order or explains why no meaningful meet and
confer occurred.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The Court orders as follows:
1.     
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct an
additional ophthalmological evaluation of Plaintiff is DENIED.
2.     
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct an
orthopedic evaluation of Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff to submit to orthopedic
examination with Dr. Kayvanfar and his staff as outlined in Defendant’s demand,
on a mutually agreeable date, at 24318 Walnut Street Newhall, CA 91321. The
examination may be recorded either by video and/or audio.
3.     
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a
psychological evaluation of Plaintiff is CONTINUED. The parties’ counsel are
ordered to meet and further confer either telephonically or in-person within 45
days, to resolve and/or narrow all outstanding issues pertaining to the scope
of Plaintiff’s psychological examination. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a
declaration with the Court which confirms compliance with this order or
explains why no meaningful meet and confer occurred.