..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV01373
Plaintiff's Name: Roberto E. Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin
Defendant's Name: Dunn-Edwards Corporation
People-Names: George Kirk, Kaiser, Hamilton, Pfizer
Company-Names: Dunn-Edwards Corporation, Pfizer
Places: California
Dates: 1969, 1974, 1977, 2003, 2022
Events: Exposure to asbestos-containing products, Use of paint products, Destruction of records
Money: None
Intentions: To determine the existence of triable issues of material fact
Facts: Exposure to asbestos-containing products, Use of paint products, Destruction of records
Disputes: Whether Defendant supplied asbestos-containing products, Whether Defendant made false representations, Whether Defendant concealed information
Acts: Use of paint products, Destruction of records
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Evidence Code
Case Citations: Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc., Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Berroteran v. Superior Court, McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc., Weber v. John Crane, Inc., Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc., Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd., Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc., Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc., Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc., McNeal v. Whittaker, Clark & Daniels, Inc.
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Evidence Code, Civil Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The court did not rely on certain evidence presented by the parties.
* The defendant shifted the burden of production by showing that the plaintiff did not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.
* The plaintiff's deposition testimony and discovery responses do not provide evidence that the plaintiff used a type of defendant's paint that contained asbestos or that he purchased asbestos-containing products from defendant.
* The plaintiff failed to show any disputed issue of material fact regarding the third cause of action for fraud.
* The court granted the motion for summary adjudication as to the third cause of action for fraud and punitive damages.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English:

The court has denied Dunn-Edwards Corporation's motion for summary judgment and granted its motion for summary adjudication on the third cause of action for fraud and punitive damages. The court found that there is a disputed issue of material fact regarding whether Dunn-Edwards Corporation supplied asbestos-containing products to Roberto E. Sotomayor, the plaintiff. The court also found that the plaintiff failed to show any disputed issue of material fact regarding the third cause of action for fraud and punitive damages. The court granted the motion for summary adjudication because the plaintiff failed to present clear and convincing evidence of malice, fraud, or oppression.
