  Case Number:  23STCV01373    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Plaintiffs Roberto E.
Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin filed this action allege Sotomayor developed
mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products from
Defendant Dunn-Edwards Corporation.  Defendant
filed a motion for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot prove
Defendant supplied asbestos-containing products to which Sotomayor was exposed.  Defendant also moved for summary adjudication
of the fraud cause of action and request for punitive damages.  
A.        Objections
            1.         Plaintiffs’
Objections
Nos. 1-10:  The court did not rely on this evidence.
            2.         Defendant’s
Objections
Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6:  The court did not rely on this evidence.
No. 2:  Defendant objects that the transcript of the
trial testimony of George Kirk is hearsay, citing Berroteran v. Superior Court (2022) 12 Cal. 5th 867, 891.  That case addressed deposition, not trial,
testimony.  Former testimony is not inadmissible
as hearsay if the declarant is unavailable and a party in the former action had
the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an interest and
motive similar to that which the party against whom the testimony is offer has.  (Evid. Code, § 1292.)  The trial testimony occurred in 2003.  (Stewart Decl., Ex. 4 at p. 195.)  At that time, the declarant was 82.  If he is still alive, he is at least 102 years
old.  It is highly unlikely he is still
alive, and if he is alive, still able to give testimony.  Thus, the witness is unavailable.  In the prior trial, the defendants had an
interest and motive similar to Defendant’s here in examining the witness about
the contents of Kaiser’s joint compound to show that it did not contain asbestos.  Both the examination by the plaintiff and
defendant in the prior trial elicited testimony from the witness that Kaiser’s
joint compound products contained asbestos. 
The objection is overruled.
B.        Summary Judgment
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence Sotomayor worked with or around asbestos-containing
products from Defendant, citing Plaintiffs’ interrogatory responses.  (Motion at p. 7.)  In response to an interrogatory asking for all
facts supporting the claim of exposure to asbestos from products made, sold, or
supplied by Defendant, Plaintiffs responded that Sotomayor used Defendant’s
paint made with Pfizer’s asbestos-containing talc.  (Putnam Decl., Ex. F at pp. 2, 4.)   
Defendant argues that
only some of its paints contained talc and Plaintiffs cannot show Sotomayor
worked with the paint that contained talc.  (Motion at p. 10.)  Sotomayor testified that in the 1970s until
about 1977 he used paint from Defendant, but he could not specifically identify
a product name or line.  (Putnam Decl.,
Ex. M at pp. 103, 104, 109; Putnam Decl., Ex. N at pp. 388, 407.)  He testified he is not familiar with the
products Prokote, Plastacoat, Synkoloid or Synko and did not recall whether he
purchased Kaiser or Hamilton brand spackle from Defendant.  (Id. at pp. 417-418.)  He testified he did not readily have documents
or available witnesses with information about the type of Defendant’s paint he
used.  (Id. at pp. 419-420.)  The deposition testimony and discovery
responses do not provide evidence that Sotomayor used a type of Defendant’s
paint that contained asbestos or that he purchased asbestos-containing product
from Defendant.  Defendant shifted the
burden. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
filed additional excerpts from Sotomayor’s deposition where he testified he
bought Kaiser joint compound from Defendant (Stewart Decl., Ex. 1 at pp.
472-473), and that Kaiser’s joint compound contained asbestos until at least
1974.  (Stewart Decl., Ex. 4 at pp. 221-224,
240-245.) 
In its reply, Defendant argues
that there is no evidence that Defendant sold asbestos-containing Kaiser’s
joint compound products during the 1969 to 1977 time period.  (Reply at p. 3.)  However, Sotomayor testified he bought Kaiser
joint compound from Defendant in that period. 
(Stewart Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 472-473.) 
That creates a disputed issue about whether Defendant sold Kaiser joint
compound to Sotomayor.
Therefore, the motion for
summary judgment is denied. 
C.        Summary Adjudication of Third Cause of Action for Fraud
Defendant seeks summary adjudication
of the third cause of action for fraud. 
The third cause of action alleges vaguely, with no specificity as to
Defendant, that all of the defendants fraudulently represented that “the
products marketed, used, sold, supplied, or specified for use were not
hazardous and that each Defendant’s conducts did not create serious or deadly
dust hazards.”  (Putnam Decl., Ex. A at
p. 59.)  It also alleges, with no
specificity as to Defendant, that all defendants “actively concealed material
facts,” “made partial representations but also suppressed material facts,” and “made
factual representations, but did not disclose facts that materially qualified
those representations.”  (Id. at
p. 60.)  The complaint also alleges all
forty-seven defendants from around the world and in completely different
industries were engaged in a vast conspiracy to defraud Plaintiffs.  (Id. at p. 61.)  The complaint contains no specificity about
the specific false statements that Defendant allegedly made to Plaintiffs or
the specific information Plaintiffs concealed from Plaintiffs or how Defendant
was involved in the vast conspiracy.  In
other words, the third cause of action is deficient on its face. 
1.         Fraudulent
Misrepresentation
Regarding the claim of
fraudulent misrepresentations, Defendant argues there is no evidence it made
any actual and affirmative representation to Plaintiffs.  (Motion at p. 13.)  Sotomayor testified he has no information or
knowledge that Defendant misrepresented anything to him.  (Putnam Decl., Ex. N at pp. 418-419.)  In response to an interrogatory asking for
information supporting the cause of action, Plaintiffs cited Sotomayor’s
deposition testimony and unspecified documents. 
Plaintiffs did not identify any specific false statements.  (Putnam Decl., Ex. F at pp. 5-6.)  These deficient discovery responses shifted
the burden.  In their opposition,
Plaintiffs still do not identify any specific false statement Defendant made to
Plaintiffs.  Therefore, Plaintiffs have
failed to show any disputed issue regarding the fraudulent misrepresentation
claim.
            2.         Concealment
“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and
“must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them can
satisfy the Bigler-Engler requirement. 
(Bader v. Johnson & Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132.)  
Defendant contends there
is no evidence Defendant concealed any facts or had any duty to disclose facts
to Plaintiffs.  (Motion at p. 15.)  Defendant cites Sotomayor’s deposition
testimony that he has no information about Defendant concealing anything from
him.  (Putnam Decl., Ex. N at pp.
418-419)  Defendant cites Plaintiffs’
responses to an interrogatory asking for information supporting the cause of
action, where Plaintiffs did not identify any specific information that
Defendant concealed from Plaintiffs. 
(Putnam Decl., Ex. F at pp. 5-6.) 
These deficient discovery responses shifted the burden.  
In their opposition,
Plaintiffs argue Defendant knew about the hazards of asbestos in the 1970s and
warned their employees about the hazard, but never warned customers about its
products.  (Opposition at pp. 15-16.)  Plaintiffs cite Defendant’s interrogatory
response that Defendant did not include warnings about asbestos on products it manufactured,
it warned its employees about asbestos pursuant to regulations, and it is
unaware of warnings on asbestos-containing products it resold.  (Stewart Decl., Ex. 2 at pp. 23-24, 26-27)  
Plaintiffs’ opposition
does not specifically identify the material facts Defendant concealed from
Plaintiffs.  If Plaintiffs are contending
that Defendant concealed the fact that some of the paint it made and sold was
hazardous, Plaintiffs did not submit evidence that during the 1970s when
Sotomayor used Defendant’s paint, Defendant knew the talc in its paint
contained asbestos and that asbestos in talc in paint was hazardous to
consumers.  If Plaintiffs are contending
that the products Defendant did not make but just resold were hazardous,
Plaintiffs did not submit evidence that during the relevant time period,
Defendant knew the products it resold (such as the Kaiser joint compound
products Sotomayor allegedly purchased from Defendant) contained asbestos and
knew that the products were hazardous to end-users.  Therefore, Plaintiffs have not shown a
disputed issue.
3.         Conspiracy
            “Conspiracy is not
a cause of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who,
although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate
tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.”  (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511.) 
“Standing alone, a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort
liability.  It must be activated by the
commission of an actual tort.”  (Id.
at p. 511.)  
Because Plaintiffs failed
to show disputed issues of material fact regarding the underlying fraud claims,
the conspiracy cause of action fails. 
Further, neither Plaintiffs’ interrogatory responses nor opposition provide
any evidence that Defendant had a common plan with the forty-six other
defendants to defraud Plaintiffs.  This
cause of action is baseless.
Because Plaintiff failed
to show any disputed issue of material fact, the motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to the third cause of action. 
D.        Summary Adjudication of Punitive Damages
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs do not have any clear or convincing evidence of malice, oppression,
or fraud. (Motion at p. 16.)
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although
the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at
summary judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’  [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A
plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in
fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)
On the other hand, a defendant’s knowledge of trace amounts of asbestos in talc
does not necessarily mean that the defendant knew that asbestos in talc “would
cause a high probability of injury.” (McNeal v. Whittaker, Clark &
Daniels, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 853, 873.)
In response to an
interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the claim for punitive damages, Plaintiffs
stated Defendant sold paint products that contained Pfizer talc contaminated with
asbestos and destroyed records about the talc, and Sotomayor used Defendant’s
paint.  (Putnam Decl., Ex. F at pp. 2-3.)  This response does not describe facts
supporting the allegations that Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression.  Defendant shifted the
burden.
            In their
opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendant knew of hazards in the products, warned
employees about the hazards of asbestos, did not warn consumers, and did not
recall the product.  (Opposition at pp.
15-16.)  As discussed above, Plaintiffs
submitted no evidence that during the relevant time period, Defendant knew the
products it resold contained asbestos, knew that the products were hazardous to
end-users, and deliberately failed to warn customers.  Likewise, Plaintiffs did not submitted
evidence that during the 1970s when Sotomayor used Defendant’s paint, Defendant
knew the talc in its paint contained asbestos and that asbestos in talc in
paint was hazardous to consumers, and deliberately failed to warn customers.  
Plaintiffs refer to
Defendant’s 1980s investigation into asbestos-containing products and that Defendant
was aware talc can naturally contain asbestos in the early 2000s.  (Opposition at p. 15; Stewart Decl., Ex. 3 at
pp. 24-28, 51.)  However, according to
Plaintiffs, the relevant time period is from 1969 through 1977.  Therefore, Defendant’s later knowledge is not
evidence of that it acted with malice, fraud, or oppression in earlier years.
Plaintiffs further argue
that Defendant intentionally destroyed evidence.  (Opposition at p. 14.)  Based on Plaintiffs’ descriptions of the
destroyed documents, they did not contain evidence that Defendant knew the
products it was selling contained asbestos that was dangerous to its customers
and yet deliberately failed to warn customers. 
Rather, the destroyed documents concerned the type of talc used in
Defendant’s paint.  (Id. at 15.) 
In sum, Plaintiffs failed
to show the existence of a triable disputed issue of material fact. Therefore,
summary adjudication is granted on the request for punitive damages. 
The motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.  The motion for
summary adjudication is GRANTED.
The moving party is to
give notice. 
 