  Case Number:  19STCV18424    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  30 JOSEPH ACUNA vs FRIENDLY INN INC., et al.Motion for Terminating SanctionsTENTATIVEDefendant’s motion for terminating or issue sanctions is CONTINUED to 60 days to allow Plaintiff’s counsel one final opportunity to cooperate with defense counsel and set up Plaintiff’s remote deposition in prison.  Defendant is ordered to file a declaration 5 days before the continued hearing date informing the Court as to whether Plaintiff complied.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONDefendants move for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff, based on Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the Court’s Order of February 8, 2023, which ordered Plaintiff to appear for deposition. Plaintiff has been incarcerated in the California Rehabilitation Center in Norco, California since July 13, 2021. He is eligible for parole in 2026. (Carpenter Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.)On February 8, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition, and ordered Plaintiff to appear for deposition within 20 days or the first date provided by the prison. (2/28/2023 Minute Order.) Plaintiff’s counsel was present at the hearing. (Id.)Despite the Court order, Plaintiff has failed to comply. Following the granting of the motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition, Defendants’ counsel worked diligently to locate Plaintiff and determine the procedure for a remote video deposition through the prison facility. Despite numerous attempts, Defendants’ counsel was unable to obtain Plaintiffs’ counsel’s cooperation to provide the necessary information pursuant to the procedures of the prison. (Carpenter Decl. ¶ 7; Exh. C.)The Court finds that in light of Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the discovery order ordering him to appear for deposition, the Court may impose terminating sanctions. First, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel has not opposed this motion, which, coupled with the failure to comply with the Court order, ordinarily would mean Plaintiff is not interesting in pursuing this case. However, counsel has filed a declaration stating that Plaintiff is still incarcerated and asking the Court not to impose terminating sanctions. This is not enough. Plaintiff’s incarceration cannot be used as an excuse to not comply with the Court’s order. Therefore, the Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel to cooperate with Defendant’s counsel to provide the necessary information pursuant to the procedures of the prison in order for the deposition to proceed. If Plaintiff’s counsel fails to do so, and the deposition does not proceed, the Court is inclined to grant this motion and impose terminating sanctions dismissing the case.As such, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is continued to allow Plaintiff’s counsel one final opportunity to comply with the order compelling Plaintiff to remotely appear for deposition. The unusual circumstances of the deposition informs the Court to grant one final continuance.Defendant is ordered to file a declaration 5 days before the continued hearing date informing the Court as to whether Plaintiff has complied.The issue of monetary sanctions is continued to the next hearing date.