 Case Number:  22STCV37304    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  30 SVEN PETER KLIMASCHKA vs EMILY MESTA ESCALANTE, et al.Motion for Leave to File an Amended AnswerTENTATIVEDefendants’ motion for leave to file an amended answer is GRANTED.  Defendant's Answer must be filed within five (5) days of issuance of this order.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONDefendants seek a court order permitting them to file an Amended Answer to allege settlement and the doctrine of accord and satisfaction as additional affirmative defenses to the Complaint. After the answer was filed, Defendants’ Counsel learned of additional facts that led counsel to believe that Defendant Emily had viable defenses based on State Farm’s prior acceptance of Plaintiff’s settlement demand for Defendant’s policy limits of $30,000, but did not move to amend the answer since there were pending settlement efforts. (Borgeson Decl., ¶ 5.) The parties agreed to mediate the suit before Lance Labelle. A mediation session was held on June 1, 2023 but informal negotiations continued through Mr. Labelle until mid-August 2023. Since mediation was not successful, Defendants argue it is now necessary to amend their answer. (Borgeson Decl. ¶ 6.)Defendant has generally complied with CRC Rule 3.1324 by including a copy of the proposed Amended Answer and indicating what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading. (Borgeson Decl., Ex. 2.) Defendant also explains that it discovered additional facts regarding Plaintiff’s demand that the insurer had accepted after the answer was filed, but did not move to amend sooner because the parties were in settlement discussions. This is sufficient to explain why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why it was not made earlier.The Court finds Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by the amendment in this case. Trial is set for May 28, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiff still has time to conduct discovery in relation to Defendant’s affirmative defenses in preparing for trial. While the amendment may expand some of the issues, these are standard issues that come up often in these personal injury cases, and will not complicate the matter. Further, the delay is not unwarranted or unexplained, as Defendants have explained they did not move to amend sooner because the parties were in ongoing settlement discussions.