 Case Number:  21STCV46724    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court  3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed  herein.  Counsel must contact the staff  in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the  tentative, or to argue the matter.  As  required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL  OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and  argue.  Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to  smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776.  Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention  to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final  ruling.            Plaintiff alleges that Defendants defrauded him into taking  out a short term bridge loan with exorbitant up-front costs and an enormous  balloon payment after one-year, as a step toward obtaining a reverse mortgage.                Plaintiff  Roberto Bustamante moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING               Plaintiff Roberto  Bustamante’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is  GRANTED, subject to conditions stated herein.  Plaintiff is to  file a stand-alone copy of the First Amended Complaint, which shall be deemed  served as of the date of this order.   Motion For Leave To Amend               Plaintiff  Roberto Bustamante moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint on the  following grounds: (1) since filing his Complaint, Plaintiff has filed Doe amendments  substituting the true names of Defendants Doe 1 and Doe 2 and must amend the  Complaint to include more specific allegations against these newly added  Defendants; and (2) Plaintiff hopes to clarify existing claims and theories by  adding additional  information learned in the  discovery process.   The  proposed Verified First Amended Complaint (“1AC”) clarifies Plaintiff’s  existing alter-ego allegations against Defendant corporations and adds  information about their joint enterprise and agency allegations.    Plaintiff  argues that subsequent developments in 2023 necessitate amendments on several  fronts. First, Plaintiff’s counsel obtained a declaration in February 2023 from  a former NACA Law employee which shed critical light on Defendants’ operations.  Vossler Decl. ¶ 18. Second, Plaintiff took the deposition of a current NACA Law  employee in December 2023 and received written discovery responses from  Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation (PBM) in January 2024,  of which confirmed specifically, that (for-profit) PBM pays the salaries of all  (nonprofit) NACA Law employees; this raises important questions about  licensing, requiring Plaintiff to amend complaint to allege such licensing  violations. Id. ¶¶ 18-22. Plaintiff also seeks to clarify existing allegations  for the benefit of all parties, and proposed FAC also adds allegations specific  to Sindey Avalos and Anthony Cara, who were substituted into this action as Doe  1 and Doe 2 after the Complaint was filed. See ROA; Vossler Decl. ¶¶ 15-16.     Defendant  argues that, with regard to information learned in “February 2023…from a former  employee of NACA Law”, this purported information was learned over a year  before the request for amendment was made. Moreover, there is no explanation or  reason provided as to why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Therefore, as to this issue, there is an inexcusable delay for over one  year.     Second, Defendant  argues, with regard to information “confirmed during deposition of purported  NACA Law employee Olga Garnica,” Plaintiff has misstated the deposition  testimony: Ms. Garnica confirmed that she undertakes work for SERVE ALL, HELP  ALL, INC., DBA THE NONPROFIT ALLIANCE OF CONSUMER ADVOCATES and receives a  paycheck from PBM; however, Ms. Garnica denied that she earned any commission.  See Declaration 3. Notwithstanding, there was no  new information learned at the  deposition that was not already within Plaintiff’s knowledge as of February  2023 as mentioned above. As such, as to this issue, there is no explanation or  reason provided as to why the request for amendment was not made earlier and  there is an inexcusable delay for over one year.   Third, Defendant  argues, with regard to the assertion that “PBM’s role was further clarified in  responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production, received in January 2024”,  Plaintiff has not stated what facts giving rise to the amended allegations were  discovered in January 2024. Instead, Plaintiff just regurgitates the due date  of when documents that were produced pursuant to a discovery request. As such,  there is no explanation or reason provided as to why the request for amendment  was not made earlier and/or no explanation of facts giving rise to the amended  allegations.     Fourth, Defendant argues, with regard to the  assertion that “Discovery of Defendants’ related wrongdoing, such as Peter  Nisson’s disbarment, has been ongoing, occurred throughout 2022 and 2023”  Plaintiff only avers discovery of one fact: Peter Nisson’s disbarment. First,  Peter Nisson’s disbarment is likely irrelevant as the disbarment was not  related to Plaintiff’s case whatsoever. See Declaration 4. Second, Peter Nisson  was disbarred on 7/1/2022—nearly two years ago. See Declaration 5. As such,  there is no explanation or reason provided as to why the request for amendment  was not made earlier and/or no explanation of facts giving rise to the amended  allegations.    Finally, Defendant  argues, with regard to information learned when “Plaintiff took the deposition  of Defendants Mary and Bobby Ford on July 28 and 31, 2023”, this is necessarily  information that was learned nearly a year before the request for amendment was  made. Moreover, there is no explanation or reason provided as to why the  request for amendment was not made earlier. Therefore, as to this issue, there  is an inexcusable delay for nearly one year.   Defendant  argues that the delay will cause prejudice in the form of a delay in trial, due  to opening up new fields of inquiry without explanation for the delay in the  request for leave to amend. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff has already  sat for deposition and Plaintiff will not agree to another deposition.    “Leave to amend is in general required to be  liberally granted (citation omitted), provided there is no statute of  limitations concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the  opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added  costs of preparation. (Citation omitted.)”   (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64  Cal.App.4th 402.)  Where an additional theory of liability is proposed against an existing  defendant, this is not prejudice which would justify the denial of leave to amend. (See  Hirsa v. Superior Court  (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490. See also Atkinson  v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109  Cal.App.4th 739, 761: “[I]t is irrelevant that new  legal theories are introduced as long as the proposed amendments 'relate to the  same general set of facts.' [Citation.]" (Citation omitted.))    Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(b)  states:   A separate declaration must accompany  the motion and must specify:   (1)  The effect of the  amendment;   (2)  Why the amendment is  necessary and proper;   (3)  When the facts giving  rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and   (4)  The reasons why the  request for amendment was not made earlier.      (Cal. Rules of Court, 3.1324(b).)   Although the motion does not clearly set forth  where the proposed additions and changes are made, as required by Cal. Rules of  Court Rule 3.1324(a)(2) & (3), the proposed changes are set forth in the  redlined version of the proposed First Amended Complaint, attached as Exhibit A  to the Declaration of Sil Vossler.   The motion was filed on March 13, 2024. The  Vossler Declaration does not provide a satisfactory explanation for the delay  in bringing this motion for leave to amend. While additional allegations  pertaining to Doe defendants is the preferred practice, the delay in seeking  leave to amend is not adequately explained when such information was originally  discovered in mid-2023. (Vossler Decl., ¶¶ 8, 22.) Likewise, the asserted need  to include allegations pertaining to Defendant Nisson’s disbarment, which  occurred after the Complaint was filed (Vossler Decl., ¶ 21), is not relevant  to the instant motion, as such facts are not relevant to Plaintiff’s theory of  liability, and if they were would likely require a supplemental complaint and  not an amendment. Purported facts concerning PBM’s payment of NACA Law’s  employees salaries and NACA Law’s inadequate funding were “confirmed” in a  December 2023 deposition of Olga Garnica, which is more recent. (Vossler Decl.,  ¶¶ 10, 19.) However, counsel admits he first learned this information in  February 2023. (Vossler Decl., ¶ 18.)   In that the proposed 1AC seeks to add  alter-ego and joint enterprise allegations (Vossler Decl., ¶ 11), this appears  to be proper, as alter ego defendants may be added even post-judgment, so  adding such theories at this point is not prejudicial.    “‘Under section 187, the trial court is authorized to  amend a judgment to add additional judgment debtors. … As a general rule, “a  court may amend its judgment at any time so that the judgment will properly  designate the real defendants.” … Judgments may be amended to add additional  judgment debtors on the ground that a person or entity is the alter ego of the  original judgment debtor. … “Amendment of a judgment to add an alter ego ‘is an  equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the  judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the  real defendant. … “Such a procedure is an appropriate and complete method by  which to bind new … defendants where it can be demonstrated that in their  capacity as alter ego of the corporation they in fact had control of the  previous litigation, and thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.” …’ …”  ’ [Citations.] ‘The decision to grant an amendment in such circumstances lies  in the sound discretion of the trial court. “The greatest liberality is to be  encouraged in the allowance of such amendments in order to see that justice is  done.”’” (Greenspan v. LADT LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508 [121 Cal. Rptr.  3d 118].)   (Danko v. O'Reilly (2014)  232 Cal. App. 4th 732, 735-36.)   Plaintiff also admits that the 1AC adds a  theory Defendants Amin, Gharib, Pepe  Abad, Poe-Abad, Avalos, Cara, Nisson, and Tran  are individually liable for financial abuse because they “assisted” the  financial abuse of Plaintiff by their corporate forms, with actual knowledge of  the ongoing scam. (Vossler Decl., ¶ 13.)               The  1AC appears to also add a new theory of liability that NACA Law and PBM acted  as unlicensed mortgage brokers in originating the loan. (Vossler Decl., ¶ 14.) The  amendments will also allow Plaintiff to pursue new legal theories stemming from the same set of general facts. (Vossler  Decl.,  ¶ 17.)               Where an additional  theory of liability is proposed against an existing defendant, this is not  prejudice which would justify the denial of leave to amend.  (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490;  see also Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003)  109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761: “[I]t is irrelevant that new legal theories are introduced as long as the  proposed amendments 'relate to the same general set of facts.'  [Citation.]" [Citation omitted].)    Courts must apply a policy of liberality in  permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding, including during trial,  when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown. (Huff v. Wilkins (2006) 138  Cal.App.4th 732, 746 [41 Cal. Rptr. 3d 754].) “However, ‘ “even if a good  amendment is proposed in proper form, unwarranted delay in presenting it may—of  itself—be a valid reason for denial.” ’ ” (Ibid.; see Magpali v. Farmers Group,  Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 488 [55 Cal.Rptr.2d 225] [“Where the trial date  is set, the jury is about to be impaneled, counsel, the parties, the trial  court, and the witnesses have blocked the time, and the only way to avoid  prejudice to the opposing party is to continue the trial date to allow further  discovery, refusal of leave to amend cannot be an abuse of discretion.”].)   (P&D Consultants, Inc. v. City of Carlsbad (2010) 190  Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345.)               Trial is  currently set for August 12, 2024.  This  may not give Defendants sufficient time to conduct discovery. However, trial is  not imminent, and additional theories of liability do not justify denial of  leave to amend under these instances.  The  explanation for the delay in seeking leave to amend is not the most persuasive,  but the Court will permit leave to amend on condition that Plaintiff shall sit  for a second session of deposition pertaining to the new allegations if  Defendants deem such to be necessary.  Moreover,  if Defendants need more time to conduct discovery and to bring motions for  summary judgment, they may bring a noticed motion for continuance of the trial  date.                As such,  the Court in its discretion will allow Plaintiff to file the amended complaint,  subject to the foregoing conditions.               Plaintiff’s  motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is to  file a stand-alone copy of the First Amended Complaint, which shall be deemed  served as of the date of this order.