 Case Number:  22CMCV00295    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00295 Julian Israel Guzman Zarate, et al. v.
 General Motors, LLC
Thursday,
 October 27, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S COMPLIANCE WITH THE
COURT’S MAY 16, 2023, DISCOVERY ORDER; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint alleges that Plaintiffs bought a vehicle made by Defendant that
developed defects in the electrical, transmission, and braking systems. Defendant
failed to repair or repurchase the vehicle. Plaintiffs allege violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       On May 16, 2023, the
Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to request for
production of documents. Defendant was ordered to provide verified supplemental
responses and a supplemental production by July 17, 2023. Plaintiff contends
that the supplemental responses are not Code-compliant and the production is
incomplete. Defendants produced documents unrelated to the vehicle and
identified documents not actually produced. 
       Defendant argues that
the motion is moot since it complied with the Court’s order and provided supplemental
responses to 16, 19, 20, and 21 and supplemental document production. Imposition
of sanctions is improper.
       In reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant did not produce all internal documents underlying its
Technical Service Bulletins (TSB) or documents responsive to the request.
Defendant improperly limited its response and produced only “cherry-picked”
documents. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       If a party fails to
obey an order compelling further response, “the court may make those orders
that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
sanction, or a terminating sanction,” and either in lieu of, or in addition to
a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Code, §. Proc., § 2031.310 subd. (1)).
       All the documents described in Requests
16, 19, 20, and 21, relate to internal investigation and root cause analysis
documents regarding the specific symptoms detailed by Plaintiff relating to the
transmission defect. Defendant’s supplemental responses purported to produce
all documents “in whole,” that Defendant produced documents in its possession,
custody and control, that were applicable to the same year, make, and model,
and identified those documents by Bates stamp number. 
       The statute requires a
statement that the responding party will comply, that production will be
allowed in whole or in part and affirm that all documents or things in
Defendant’s possession, custody, or control will be included in the production.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) 
The supplemental responses facially appear to comply with the
foregoing statute, however, Plaintiffs contend that the actual production does
not pertain to the transmission defect defined in Plaintiff’s discovery
requests as follows:
“TRANSMISSION
DEFECT shall be understood to mean such defects which result in symptoms
including but not limited to: a bizarre clunking noises emitting from the
transmission, jolting forward of the Vehicle on its own, erratic and harsh
shifting, and delays when applying the brakes, and any other concern identified
in the repair history for the subject 2020 GMC Sierra 1500; Vehicle
Identification Number 1GTP8DED3LZ303431.” (Plaintiff’s Sep Stmt filed 4/11/23,
2:17-22.)
       Plaintiffs outlined
the discrepancies in a letter to Defendant in an attempt to meet and confer as
Defendant produced documents unrelated to the defect as defined (documents
concerning clutch and hood harness), withheld spreadsheets it agreed to produce,
engineering work orders were identified but not actually produced, a list of identified
documents were not actually provided, and documents produced pertained to the
wrong model year. Defendant did not provide the backup internal documents
supporting the TSBs applicable to Plaintiffs’ vehicle. (Decl. of Alessandro
Manno, Ex. 3.)
       Instead of responding
to Plaintiffs’ specifically identified issues, Defendant filed an opposition
that is substantively identical to its oppositions to Plaintiff’s motions to
compel compliance in other cases. Defendant believes the motion is moot simply
because it served supplemental responses regardless of whether the documents
are relevant to the defects at issue or are actually produced. Production is incomplete
as Plaintiffs described with specificity. (Manno Decl., Ex. 3.)  This does not reflect a good faith compliance
with the Court’s order.
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       Accordingly, the Plaintiffs’
motion is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to immediately comply with the Court’s
order by meeting and conferring with Plaintiffs forthwith regarding the issues
raised in Plaintiffs’ meet and confer letter and produce responsive documents within
10 days. The Court imposes prospective sanctions as requested by Plaintiffs of
$500 for each day Defendant fails to produce the requested documents within the
above time period. (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc.  (2016) 246 Cal. App. 4th 566, 605.)
