 Case Number:  23BBCV01970    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
monique
  carmelete almeida,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
jeffrey
  paul katz,
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01970
 
  Hearing Date:  April 26, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to quash subpoena 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Monique Carmelete Almeida (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on May 28, 2022, she was involved in a motor vehicle accident with
Defendant Jeffrey Paul Katz (“Defendant”) at Tujunga Ave. and Erwin St. in Los
Angeles.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant failed to make a stop at a posted stop sign, which caused his vehicle
to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle, resulting in Plaintiff sustaining bodily
injuries.  
 The
complaint, filed August 24, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) motor
vehicle; and (2) general negligence.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to quash subpoenas for production of business records dated February 16,
2024, served on MedAmerica Billing Services, Inc. 
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION

Plaintiff moves
to quash the subpoena for production of business records served on MedAmerica Billing
Services, Inc.  (Mot., Ex. 1 [Subpoena].)  
Plaintiff argues
that the subpoenas violate her right to privacy in her medical, pharmaceutical,
psychological, psychiatric, and/or psychotherapy records, violate the
physician-patient privilege, and violate her right of privacy in her financial
information.  Plaintiff requests that the
motions be denied or that the subpoenas be limited to the relevant body parts
at issue in this action.  The relevant
body parts as listed in Form Interrogatory No. 6.2 include Plaintiff’s neck,
shoulders, left wrist, lower back, right knee, and right ankle.  
While a plaintiff is not obligated to
sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific physical, mental, or
emotional injury, “they may not withhold information which relates to any
physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this
lawsuit.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864; City & County of San Francisco v.
Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 232.) 
A plaintiff suing for personal injuries waives the physician-patient
privilege to some extent, but this does not make discoverable all of a
plaintiff’s lifetime medical history.  (Britt, supra, 20 Cal.3d at 863-64.)    
In this motor vehicle accident lawsuit,
Plaintiff claims various injuries as described above.  However, the entirety of Plaintiff’s medical
history and billing information are not necessarily at issue and thus the
subpoenas are overly broad in time and in scope.  As such, the subpoena will be modified and
restricted in scope and time such as to seek those medical records and billing
information described in the subpoena relevant to injuries or issues with
Plaintiff’s neck, shoulders, left
wrist, lower back, right knee, and right ankle, for the period of May
28, 2017 (5 years prior to the accident) to the present.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Monique
Carmelete Almeida’s motion to quash the deposition subpoena served on MedAmerica
Billing Services, Inc. is granted in part such that the subpoena will be
modified and restrict in scope and time such as to seek those medical records
and billing information described in the subpoena relevant to injuries or
issues with Plaintiff’s neck,
shoulders, left wrist, lower back, right knee, and right ankle, for the
period of May 28, 2017 (5 years prior to the accident) to the present.  
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
 
DATED:  April 26, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the
Superior Court