 Case Number:  24BBCV00136    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
Vagan sardariani, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
rolan markarian, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case No.:  24BBCV00136
Under Submission
 
Hearing
  Date: April 12, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to consolidate actions; motion to expunge lis pendens
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Vigan Sardariani (“Sardariani”) and V&S Complete Auto
Repairs, Inc. (“V&S”) allege that this action involves a 22-year-old lease
relationship between Sardariani and Defendant Roland Markarian (“Markarian”)
concerning real property located at 7139 Foothill Blvd., Tujunga, CA 91042 (the
“Foothill Property”).  The Court will
call this the “Fraud Action” in its subsequent discussion, based on the Court’s
review of its nine causes of action. 
In the Fraud Action, Plaintiffs allege that Markarian rented the Foothill
Property in Tujunga on May 1, 2002 subject to the lease agreement with
Sardariani.  Plaintiffs allege that
Markarian sued Plaintiffs on May 11, 2022 in Pasadena Case No. 22PDUD00815, Markarian
v. Sardariani.  Plaintiffs alleged
that on June 8, 2016, Markarian, without notice to Plaintiffs, transferred
ownership of the leased property to Defendant RRRM Holding Company, LLC
(“RRRM”).  Plaintiffs allege that Markarian
and RRRM persuaded Plaintiffs’ sublessor, Defendants Ara Ahanjanyan and Arman
Artunyan, to breach their sublease with Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege that on December 29, 2023,
RRRM initiated an unlawful detainer action in Burbank Case No. 23BBCV03087, RRRM
Holding Company, LLC v. Sardariani. 
Plaintiffs allege that RRRM has made false representations that it
leased property to Sardariani, that rent had increased (without proper notice),
and that RRRM performed all terms and conditions on the lease when it had
not.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed March 14, 2024, alleges causes
of action for: (1) fraud; (2) intentional concealment; (3) negligent
misrepresentation; (4) breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
breach of contract; (6) tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage; (7) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage; (8)
intentional interference with contractual relations; and (9) inducing breach of
contract. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On March 15, 2024, Sardariani filed a motion
to consolidate actions.  On April 2,
2024, Sardariani filed a notice of failure to file an opposition, stating that
no opposition was timely filed or received. 
On April 5, 2024, RRRM filed the declaration of Zakari re: opposition to
the motion to consolidate.  
On March 18, 2024, RRRM filed a motion to
expunge lis pendens.  On March 29, 2024,
Sardariani filed an opposition brief.  On
April 5, 2024, RRRM filed a reply. 
The matter came for hearing on April 12,
2024.  The Court heard oral argument and
took the matters under submission.  Afterwards,
the Court’s review of the file and the tentative ruling indicated that the
Court’s tentative ruling for April 12, 2024, did not consider the full scope of
the issues before the Court in connection with these two motions. Therefore,
the Court has reconsidered the pleadings filed in connection with this motion
and set the matter for re-hearing. In connection with that rehearing, the Court
now posts this new tentative ruling. The Court will hear arguments regarding
this tentative ruling. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
A.   
The Lawsuits at Issue

            Sardariani moves to
consolidate the Fraud Action (24BBCV00136), which is a general unlimited civil
action, with the following three unlawful detainer cases concerning the
Foothill Property pursuant to CCP § 1048(a):
1.     
V&S Complete Auto
Repairs, Inc. v. Ara Ohanjanyan (LASC Case No.
23PDUD04099), filed December 13, 2023
In this action, which was filed on December
13, 2023, V&S Complete Auto Repairs, Inc. 
(“V&S”), one of the Plaintiffs in the Fraud Action, asserts that it
is a sublessor of the Foothill Property, and seeks to evict two individuals,
Ara Ohanjanyan and Arman Arutyunyan, who it says are its subtenants, through an
action for Unlawful Detainer.  This will
be referred to as the “First Unlawful Detainer.” 
2.     
RRRM Holdings Co., LLC v.
Vigan Sardariani (LASC Case No. 23BBCV03087), filed December
29, 2023
This is an unlawful detainer action that was
filed initially on December 29, 2023, and is now based on an operative first
amended complaint dated February 20, 2024. 
In this action, Plaintiff RRRM Holding Company, LLC (“RRM”) alleges that
it is the owner of the Foothill Property and seeks to evict Defendant Vigan
Sardariani, one of the Plaintiffs in the Fraud Action. There are two bases for
this unlawful detainer action: a failure to pay rent and the expiration of the
tenancy. The Court will call this the “Second Unlawful Detainer Action.” 
3.     
RRRM Holding Co., LLC v.
V&S Complete Auto Repairs, Inc., LASC Case No.
24PDUD00343, filed January 30, 2024
In this unlawful
detainer, the last of the three unlawful detainers to be filed, Plaintiff RRRM
alleges that it is the owner of the Foothill Property and seeks to evict
Defendant V&S who it says occupies the property through a sublease with
Vigan Sardariani. The Court will call this the “Third Unlawful Detainer.” 
B.     Discussion of Merits 
The Fraud Action and the three unlawful
detainers are assigned to Department B of the Burbank Courthouse because of the
Court’s earlier ruling relating cases dealing with possession or other disputes
concerning the real property commonly known as 7139 Foothill Blvd., Tujunga, CA
91042. 
CCP § 1048(a) provides that the Court may order a joint trial on
matters that “involve[] a common question of law or fact.”  The four matters essentially involve the same parties, the same
attorneys, and the same leased property. 
The actions, at first glance, involve common issues of law and fact. 
In RRRM’s opposition declaration, RRRM argues
that it previously filed an opposition on February 29, 2024, to Plaintiff’s ex
parte application and that it is unclear if Plaintiffs are giving up their
demand for arbitration.  RRRM argues that
the cases should be related, but not be stayed or consolidated. 
The Court has discussed arbitration with the
parties. The original agreement between Roland Markarian and Vigan Sardariani
dated May 1, 2002 did contain an arbitration agreement. All parties have now
indicated to the Court that they have abandoned any contention that these
disputes should be heard by arbitration. Of course, that would seem obvious at
this point from the volume of Superior Court filings.
 To
begin with, it would certainly seem like the unlawful detainers at issue should
go to trial first. The unlawful
detainer statutory scheme “is intended and designed to provide an expeditious
remedy for the recovery of possession of real property. [Citation.] Unlawful
detainer actions are, accordingly, of limited scope, generally dealing only
with the issue of right to possession and not other claims between the parties,
even if related to the property. [Citation.]” (Larson v. City and County of
San Francisco (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1297; see also Martin–Bragg
v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385 [“In unlawful detainer
proceedings, ordinarily the only triable issue is the right to possession of
the disputed premises, along with incidental damages resulting from the unlawful
detention. [Citations.]”].)
A consolidation of a general civil action may be appropriate when an unlawful detainer proceeding and an
unlimited action are simultaneously pending and both raise the same complex title issues. (Martin–Bragg, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at
385.)  “[T]he trial court has the power
to consolidate an unlawful detainer proceeding with a simultaneously pending
action in which title to the property is
in issue. That is because a successful claim of title by the tenant would
defeat the landlord's right to possession.” (Id. [emphasis added].) 
Therefore, “[w]hen an
unlawful detainer proceeding and an unlimited action concerning title to the
property are simultaneously pending, the trial court in which the unlimited
action is pending may stay the unlawful detainer action
until the issue of title is resolved in the unlimited action, or it may consolidate the actions.”  (Id.
[emphasis added].)  
Here, Plaintiffs Sardariani and V&S
contend that there are issues across the four cases regarding title to the
property that can be adjudicated together in an economic and judicious
fashion.  The Court disagrees. 
First, the title issues seem like a small
part of the Fraud Action. The Court’s review of the complaint in this action
fails to uncover a cause of action demanding that Sardariani and V&S be
given title to the Foothill Property. There is no equitable action for quiet
title and no equitable claim for specific performance. Trial by jury is
demanded for all causes of action. There is a passing reference to specific
performance in the prayer at the conclusion of the Complaint, a conveyance of
the property is not demanded in any of the causes of action. Even if it were, a
jury cannot compel a transfer of real property. Moreover, the brief request in
the prayer does not specifically ask for a transfer of title, but only vaguely
requests “specific performance of the Lease and Sublease.” There are no
allegations that Mr. Sardariani has sufficient wherewithal to purchase the
Property or that he has purported to exercise the option by making an
appropriate offer to purchase and that the offer has been refused. Thus, it
seems as if title is only passingly raised in the Fraud Action and creates only
a theoretical dispute regarding title. The gravamen of that action is fraud and
damages for fraud. 
Second, the Fraud Action is far greater in
scope than the unlawful detainers, containing nine different causes of action.
A cursory examination of these causes of action shows potential for pleading
issues to arise. The Fraud Action is not ready to be set for trial in a manner
that would not unduly delay the contest for possession in the unlawful
detainers. There is inadequate time to allow for full discovery, pleading and
summary adjudication in the Fraud Action without unduly delaying the
determination of the right to possession of the Foothill Property as
contemplated by the unlawful detainer scheme. As set forth below, the Fraud
Action presents a difficult and substantial issue of the statute of limitations
which may be the subject of much further pleading and possible bifurcation of
trial. The scope of such a trial, especially when combined with multiple
unlawful detainers, would cause jury confusion. 
Thus, the Court denies
consolidation with respect to the unlawful detainers and the Fraud Action. The Fraud Action is not entitled to priority
and would be set for trial in the ordinary course of this Department’s business
for November 2025.
The Court is inclined to consolidate the Second Unlawful Detainer and
the Third Unlawful Detainer for trial because these two complaints appear to
involve similar issues. Both Sardariani and V&S, and the defendants in
these actions, appear to derive their rights from the initial written lease
between Mr. Markarian and Mr. Sardariani executed in 2002, and so those two cases
appear to present similar issues. The Second and Third Unlawful Detainers also seem
to present issues that should logically be decided before the First Unlawful
Detainer. Although there is some merit to taking up the unlawful detainers in
the order they were filed, there appears to be some logic to considering the
Second and Third Unlawful Detainers first. Therefore, the Court intends to
consolidate the Second and Third Unlawful Detainers and set them for trial. The
First Unlawful Detainer will be set as soon as possible thereafter, assuming it
is not moot. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
A.   
Legal Standard
Under CCP § 405.30, at any time after a notice of pendency of action
has been recorded, any party with an interest in the real property may apply to
the Court to expunge the notice.  A lis
pendens may be expunged either under: (a) CCP § 405.31 if the pleadings do not
contain a real property claim or (b) CCP § 405.32 if the Court finds that the
party claiming the lis pendens has not established by a preponderance of the
evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.  Under CCP § 405.30, the party claiming the
lis pendens has the burden of proof under sections 405.31 and 405.32.  
Accordingly, the plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating that their
pleadings contain a real property claim and that the probable validity of their
real property claim can be established by a preponderance of the evidence.  "Probable validity" exists when
"it is more likely than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment on
the claim."  (CCP § 405.3.) 
B.    
Merits of Motion 
            The lis pendens was recorded on
February 9, 2024. RRRM moves to expunge the notice of pendency of action (lis
pendens) arising out of claims in the Fraud Action. 
RRRM argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish strict compliance with the
rules related to lis pendens, that Plaintiffs do not have a real property claim
and that, if they do, they cannot establish its probable validity. The Court
agrees to some degree with each of these contentions. 
1.     
Filing of Lis Pendens with the Court
            First,
RRRM argues that Plaintiffs have not complied with the requirement to properly
assert a lis pendens because they did not file their notice of lis pendens with
the Court or its proof of service.  CCP §
405.22 states:
Except in actions subject to Section
405.6, the claimant shall, prior to recordation of the
notice, cause a copy of the notice to be mailed, by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, to all known addresses of the parties to whom
the real property claim is adverse and to all owners of record of the
real property affected by the real property claim as shown by the latest county
assessment roll. If there is no known address for service on an adverse party
or owner, then as to that party or owner a declaration under penalty of perjury
to that effect may be recorded instead of the proof of
service required above, and the service on that party or owner shall not be
required. Immediately following recordation, a
copy of the notice shall also be filed with the court in which the action is
pending. Service shall also be made immediately and in the same manner
upon each adverse party later joined in the action.
(CCP § 405.22 [emphasis added].) 
RRRM does not argue that there is any issue with service but
argues that Plaintiffs did not comply with the requirement to file the
notice with the Court.  Indeed,
Plaintiffs did not file a copy of the notice following recordation until after
this motion was brought.  In opposition,
Sardariani argues that there should be no issue with the filing of the notice
since RRRM’s motion included a copy of the notice of lis pendens as an exhibit
and so RRRM has essentially helped Sardariani comply with the code.  However, by Plaintiffs’ logic, had RRRM not
filed a motion, then Plaintiffs’ notice of lis pendens would have been void as
no notice was ever filed or would have been filed with the Court.  At the April 12 hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel
argued that they filed the notice of lis pendens on February 28, 2024 (19 days
after the notice of lis pendens had been recorded) as an exhibit to an ex parte
application to stay, transfer, coordinate, and consolidate the cases.  It was only after the Court published its
tentative ruling on the motion to expunge on April 9, 2024 that Plaintiff filed
a Notice of Lodgment of Lis Pendens on April 10, 2024 (2 days prior to the
hearing).  Here, the Court finds that
this was not in compliance with the statute requiring that the filing of the
copy of the notice be made “immediately following recordation.”  The filing occurred nearly 2 months after the
notice of lis pendens had been recorded and only after the Court’s tentative
was issued.  
Plaintiffs nevertheless contend that they
have substantially complied with the statute. The substantial compliance cases
cited by Plaintiffs do not deal with compliance with filing requirements, but
only with service requirements. (See J&A Mash & Barrel, LLC v.
Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 1, 38-44.)  “Substantial compliance contemplates that
there is at least some compliance with all of the statutory requirements.
[Citation.]”  (Carr v. Rosien
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 845, 855.)  Plaintiffs have not substantially complied with CCP §
405.22.  The requirements of section
405.22 were not met, and the lis pendens is expunged on those grounds.  The Court will also discuss whether Plaintiffs
have met their burden to establish that their pleadings contain a real property
claim and that such claim has probable validity. 
            As
indicated above, Plaintiffs have the
burden of demonstrating that their pleadings contain a real property claim and
that the probable validity of their real property claim can be established by a
preponderance of the evidence.
2.     
Real Property Claim
            First, review of
Plaintiffs’ complaint in the Fraud Action reveals that it is essentially that,
a fraud action. As noted above, the Complaint does not have equitable causes of
action and does not seek an order that title be conveyed to Plaintiffs. At
present, it does not allege an equitable cause of action, and indeed it demands
a jury trial as to all causes of action. In view of the potential for abuse of
the lis pendens procedure, the Courts have not let the tail wag the dog in this
manner. Throwaway references to equitable relief will not allow an action at
law for fraud to be converted to an equitable claim for title. For example, in BGJ
Associates v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
952, 970, the Court of Appeal stated: 
For such reasons, We declared in Urez
Corp. v. Superior Court, supra, that lis pendens is not available in what “is essentially a fraud action seeking money
damages with additional allegations urged to support the equitable remedies of a constructive trust
or an equitable lien.” (190 Cal. App. 3d at p. 1149, italics added; . . . . .”
(BGJ, supra, 75
Cal.App.4th at 970 [citations omitted).] Thus, the Court finds that
the pleading in the Fraud Action does not assert a real property claim.
3.     
Probable
Validity of the Claim.
With
respect to the merits of the claim, RRRM argues that Plaintiffs must show that Markarian intended to sell the
subject property to a bona fide third purchaser to trigger Sardariani’s “right
of first refusal.”  The agreement at
issue is the Commercial Lease Agreement for the subject premises that was entered
between landlord Markarian and tenant Saradriani on May 1, 2002.  (FAC, Ex. A.) 
The Option to Purchase portion states:
Landlord hereby promises and agrees that should Landlord decide to sell the
rental property, which is the subject of this agreement, the Tenant shall have
the FIRST OPTION to PURCHASE the said property for the reasonable market value
of the property. For the purpose of this agreement the term “sell” includes the
transfer of the ownership of said property. Landlord promises to give Tenant at
least ninety days (90) advance notice of Landlord’s intention to sell the
property. 
(Lease at p.3.)  RRRM argues that it did not sell the property
to another owner but only “moved ownership” to a business entity, which is also
in Markarian’s ownership and management, such that there was no sale or change
in ownership.  (Mot. at p.6.)  In opposition, Sardariani argues that he has
a property interest in the premises because any transfer ownership triggered a
right for Sardariani to purchase the property. 

            RRRM
argues that the movement of ownership from Markarian to RRRM does not trigger
the Option to Purchase portion of the Lease, citing cases such as Pellandini
v. Valdao (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1315, which states, in relevant
part: 
We agree
with the Utah Supreme Court that unless
the agreement provides otherwise, a bona fide
sale for purposes of a right of first refusal does not occur unless there is a
transfer for value to a third party. ( Prince v. Elm Investment Co., Inc., supra, 649 P.2d 820.) California
has recognized that a right of first refusal is a “preemptive right to purchase
property on the terms and conditions of an offer to purchase by a third
person.” ( C. Robert Nattress & Associates v. Cidco (1986) 184 Cal. App. 3d 55, 66 [229 Cal. Rptr. 33].) There was no sale
to a third party in this case. Accordingly, Pellandini’s right of first refusal
was not triggered.
(Pelladini, supra, 113
Cal.App.4th at 1322.) Cases such as Pellandini are focused on
the practical problem that in the absence of a bona fide option to purchase, a
right of first refusal does not make sense because there is no proposed
purchase for the optionee to match. An offer to purchase cannot get first in
line if there no line. Yet even Pellandini qualifies its analysis with
the language “unless the agreement provides otherwise. . . .” Here, the
agreement states that “the term ‘sell’ includes the transfer of the ownership
of said property.” While there was no sale by Mr. Markarian in 2016 when the
ownership was transferred into his corporation, there was arguably a “transfer
of ownership.” 
While
there may be ambiguities or other problems with respect to this language, and
it is not clear that Plaintiff Sardariani has ever attempted to exercise the
option, the Court will not rely upon this argument to expunge the lis pendens
and will assume, for purposes of this motion, that the transfer from Markarian
to the related company RRRM did trigger the option. The question of how a
“first-option to purchase” can be exercised in the absence of another offer to
purchase will be left for a further day.  
RRRM’s
argument that the statute of limitations has run on Plaintiffs’ claims raises a
more serious problem for the merits of the claim that Sardariani has a claim on
title. Such a claim would have arisen, if at all, when the property was
transferred from Markarian to RRRM in 2016. Mr Markarian declares that he
notified Mr. Sardariani in writing in 2016 of the transfer of ownership.  Mr. Markarian does not produce the writing or
explain its absence, weakening this testimony. Plaintiff Sardariani has, in
contrast, claimed that the 2016 transfer “was concealed from me” and denies
receiving oral or written notice. In the Court’s view, neither side has presented
a strong case of notice or lack of notice. Mr. Sardariani’s claim to be totally
ignorant of the transfer to RRRM, however, is not credible in view of the
certificate of liability insurance that he or his representatives obtained in
2017 adding RRRM as an additional insured. (Markarian Decl., Ex. B.)  This at a minimum suggests that he or his
representatives were notified in some manner of the existence of RRRM and that
there was some sort of interest of that corporation that needed to be insured.
While this is an issue that will need further explication at trial, the
preponderance of the evidence tips narrowly in favor RRRM on this issue based
on the evidence now before the Court. The Court does not find that Mr.
Markarian’s (apparently mistaken) assertion of individual ownership in the
initial 2022 litigation bars him from contending that Mr. Sardariani was aware
of the transfer in 2016. Mr. Markarian does not seem to have relied on his
personal ownership in the previous unlawful detainer action.
            As
such, the motion to expunge the lis pendens is granted.  
C.    
Request for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
CCP §
405.38 states: “The court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion
under this chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of attorney's fees and costs unjust.”  
RRRM seeks $4,310 in attorney’s fees and costs against Plaintiffs and
their counsel of record.  This accounts
for 6.5 hours to prepare the motion, 1 hour to review the opposition and
prepare a reply, and 1 hour to appear at the hearing at $500/hour, for a total
of $4,250 plus $60 in filing fees. (Zakari Decl., ¶5.)  
Defendant is the prevailing party on this motion.  At the hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel stated
the reasons for Plaintiffs and counsel’s substantial justification in filing
the motion such that the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs would be
unjust.  Based on Plaintiff’s counsel’s substantial
arguments for maintaining the lis pendens, the Court will not impose attorney’s
fees and costs against Plaintiff.  As
stated above, the preponderance of the evidence tips narrowly in favor of
Defendant, and the opposition was not without substantial justification. Defendant’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs is therefore denied.   
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Vigan Sardariani’s motion to consolidate the actions is granted
in part in that the Second and Third unlawful detainers are consolidated for
trial. The motion is otherwise denied. The actions remain related and will be
scheduled for trial in accordance with this opinion. The unlawful detainers
will be given priority. 
Defendant RRRM Holding Company LLC’s motion to expunge lis pendens is
granted.  Defendant’s request for attorney’s
fees and costs is denied.   
Each party shall give notice of their respective order.   
 
 
DATED: 
April 25, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  