 Case Number:  23BBCV00637    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
capital one,
  n.a.,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
margarit
  manvelyan,
  
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.: 23BBCV00637
 
  Hearing Date:  April 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for judgment on the pleadings 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff
Capital One, N.A. (“Plaintiff”) alleges that within the last 4 years, Defendant
Margarit Manvelyan (“Defendant”) became indebted to Plaintiff because an
account was stated in writing by and between the parties in which it was agreed
that Defendant was indebted to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that the claim is based on
account number ending in -2838 for the sum of $33,955.07 by which Defendant has
been unjustly enriched.  
The complaint, filed March 21, 2023,
alleges a single cause of action for common counts.   
On July 7, 2023, Defendant (in propria
persona) filed an answer.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of: (1) Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions (“RFA”)
propounded on Defendant; and (2) the court order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs
admitted against Defendant.  The request
is granted such that the Court will take judicial notice of the fact that
Plaintiff propounded the RFAs in Exhibit 1 and that the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to deem the RFAs admitted. 
(Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  However,
at this time, the Court declines to take judicial notice of Defendant’s
admissions of the RFAs.  As addressed by
the Court of Appeal in in Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604–605, “The court will
take judicial notice of records such as admissions, answers to interrogatories,
affidavits, and the like, when considering a demurrer, only where they contain
statements of the plaintiff or his agent which are inconsistent with the
allegations of the pleading before the court. … The hearing on demurrer may not
be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the
court take judicial notice of affidavits, declarations, depositions, and other
such material which was filed on behalf of the adverse party and which purports
to contradict the allegations and contentions of the plaintiff.”  
DISCUSSION

Plaintiff moves
for judgment on the pleadings against Defendant on the ground that Defendant’s
answer fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a defense and based on the
Court’s order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs admitted against Defendant.  
Plaintiff relies
on the Court’s order deeming the RFAs admitted against Defendant.  Defendant was deemed to have admitted the
following facts: (1) Defendant applied for a credit card charge account with
Plaintiff; (2) she received a Customer Agreement when she received the credit
card with account number -2838; (3) the Agreement provided that by using the
credit card, she agreed to be bound by the terms; (4) she received a credit
card with account number -2838; (5) she agreed to pay Plaintiff for charges
made on the charge account number ending in -2838; (6) she used the credit card
to purchase goods, services, or to obtain cash advances; (7) she received
regular monthly statements showing the charges made, payments received, and
total balance due; (8) she did not send written notice of any dispute to
Plaintiff within 60 days of receiving the statements bearing an alleged dispute
charge; (9) all payments she has made have been applied to the account by
Plaintiff; (10) she did not cancel the credit card; (11) she did not report the
credit card as lost or stolen; (12) the principal amount of $33,955.07 due set
forth in the complaint is correct; and (13) every statement or allegation in
the complaint is true and correct. 
(Pl.’s RJN, Exs. 1-2.)  As
discussed above, the Court takes judicial notice only of the facts that
Plaintiff propounded the RFAs and that the Court entered an order on the RFAs,
but it declines to take judicial notice of Defendant’s deemed admissions to the
RFAs.  
The motion for
judgment on the pleading is directed at Defendant’s answer.  However, Plaintiff has not shown how, in the
motion’s memorandum of points and authorities, the answer is deficient and
fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute defenses against Plaintiff.  
Further, in
light of the Court’s limited grant of the request for judicial notice, the
Court declines to enter an order granting the motion for judgment on the
pleadings based on the RFAs.  Rather, Defendant’s
reliance on the RFA responses may be better suited for a motion for summary
judgment.  Further, it now appears that
the RFA responses will dictate the result of a summary trial—in the absence of
an affirmative defense being raised and proved. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is denied. 
Plaintiff shall provide
notice of this order.
 
 
DATED: April 26, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 