 Case Number:  23BBCV02095    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
oscar ochoa, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
american honda
  motor co., inc., et al.,
 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02095
 
Hearing
  Date:  April 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses to request fcor production, set
  one 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Oscar Ochoa (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on March 31, 2022, he purchased a 2019 Honda HR-V, which was a certified pre-owned
(“CPO”) purchase that was accompanied by Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.’s (“AHM”) new and full CPO warranty, such that the vehicle constitutes a
“new motor vehicle” under the Act.  Plaintiff
alleges that the causes of action arise out of the warranty and repair
obligations of AHM in connection with the vehicle for which AHM issued a
written warranty.  Plaintiff alleges that
the subject vehicle was delivered with serious defects and nonconformities to
the warranty, including electrical and transmission system defects.  Plaintiff alleges that he presented the
vehicle for repairs in July 2022 for the vehicle’s mileage gauge
malfunctioning, October 2022 for an inoperative phone charger, February 2023
for the vehicle intermittently not accelerating faster than 40 mph, in May 2023
for the vehicle not accelerating and having difficulty shifting, and in June
2023 for the vehicle losing power at speeds higher than 55 mph and not
accelerating.  Plaintiff alleges that he
hereby revokes acceptance of the sales contract. 
The complaint, filed September 12, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty against AHM; (2) violation of the Act – breach of implied
warranty against AHM; (3) violation of the Act, section 1793.2(b) against AHM AHM
and (4) negligent repair against Defendant Keyval, Inc. dba Keyes Honda
(“Keyes”). 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On February 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to request for production,
set one (“RPD”), set one, Nos. 1-31 from Defendant AHM.  
On April 15, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief.
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION

            Plaintiffs
move to compel AHM’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-31.  RPD Nos. 1-14 relate to the subject vehicle;
Nos. 15-22 relate to AHM’s policies and procedures for handling Song-Beverly
cases; Nos. 23-29 relate to AHM’s warranty policy and procedure for handling;
and Nos. 30-31 are regarding similar customer complaints.  
            RPD
No. 1 seeks all documents regarding the subject vehicle that are within AHM’s
Customer Relations Center.  RPD No. 13 seeks all documents which evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to any contact or communications between AHM and Plaintiff.  RPD No. 14 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any contact or communications with any
third-parties relating to the subject vehicle. 
AHM objected that the RPDs are vague and
overly broad, fail to describe with reasonable particularity the documents
requested, and seek confidential/proprietary/trade secret information.  Without waiving objections, AHM stated that
it would produce documents within its possession, custody, or control to which
no objection is being made and will produce the CRRS Report, which should be
subject to a protective order.  The
requests are not overly broad or vague as asked and seek documents related to
the subject vehicle at issue in this action. 
The objections are overruled.  The
motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 1, 13, and 14. 
If there are other documents that exist responsive to these RPDs, they
should be produced subject to a protective order or a privilege log should be
produced.  Documents created by defense
attorneys or direct communications to and from defense attorneys are excluded
from this requirement.
            RPD
No. 2 seeks all documents which evidence, support, refer, or relate to each
affirmative defense in the answer.  RPD
No. 3 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any
inspection of the subject vehicle.  RPD
No. 4 seeks all documents that refer or
relate to all repair orders pertaining to the subject vehicle in AHM’s
possession, custody or control.  RPD
No. 5 seeks all documents, including manuals, and express warranty booklets
provided to consumers with respect to the purchase or lease of the subject
vehicle.
AHM objected to RPD
Nos. 2-5 on the same grounds as No. 1 and also on the grounds that the RPDs seek documents
that are protected by the attorney-client privilege, attorney work product
doctrine, and the right of privacy.  AHM
responded without waiving objections that it will produce non-privileged documents
applicable to the subject vehicle during Plaintiff’s ownership, including (in
whole or a combination of the following documents depending on the RPD
request): Keyes’ service records and the non-confidential portion of the
service records received from Woodland Hills Honda and Honda of North
Hollywood, business entities separate from and independent of AHM, the
non-confidential Warranty History, a copy of the 2019 Honda HR-V Warranty
Booklet, a copy of the 2019 Honda Consumer Information Booklet, a copy of the
2019 Honda HR-V Owner's Manual, Traffic Documents, Warranty Registration,
confidential Warranty History, CRRS Report, and the confidential portion of the
service records received from Woodland Hills Honda and Honda of North
Hollywood, subject to a protective order. 
It appears that AHM has made a thorough production of the documents and
it is unclear what documents Plaintiff is claiming are missing.  However, to the extent that documents have
been withheld based on the objections or privilege, the Court will order
documents to be produced subject to a protective order or a privilege log being
produced.  Documents created by defense
attorneys or direct communications to and from defense attorneys are excluded
from this requirement. The motion is granted as to RPD
Nos. 2-5. 
            RPD
No. 6 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any
Retail Installment Sale Contracts and/or Lease Agreements, including any
associated documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket installed parts, service
contracts, and any other writings signed by the Plaintiff, in connection with
the subject vehicle.  AHM objected to the
RPD, but stated without waiving objections, that it was unable to comply with
the request.  It states that after making
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effect to comply with the RPD,
it has no documents responsive to the request and believes and responsive
documents would be in the possession of the selling dealer.  The responses are partially compliant with
CCP § 2031.230, which states: “A representation
of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a
reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This
statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  However, the response
does not state whether the document never existed, was misplaced, has never
been in its possession, etc. and the name and address of the organization
believed by AHM to have the document requested. 
As such, a further response will be required for RPD No. 6.  
            RPD No. 7 seeks all documents that refer or relate to
all diagnostic trouble codes that are electronically stored by AHM or its
authorized repair facility as result of any inspections or repairs conducted on
the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 8 seeks
all documents, including recalls, technical service bulletins, and dealer
advisories that were issued for the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 12 seeks all photographs or
videotapes of the subject vehicle taken by AHM or its authorized repair
facility.  AHM similarly objected to
these RPDs similarly as it did to RPD No. 6, but AHM responded that no such
documents responsive to the RPDs exist or have ever existed.  This response is code compliant.  Thus, the motion is denied as to RPD Nos. 7,
8, and 12.  
            RPD
No. 9 seeks all documents that refer to or relate to any contact or
communication between AHM or its authorized repair facility regarding the
subject vehicle.  RPD No. 10 seeks
all documents that refer to or relate to any summaries of all warranty repairs
performed on the subject vehicle.  RPD
No. 11 seeks all documents that refer to or relate to any summaries
of all amounts paid by AHM for warranty repairs performed on the subject
vehicle.  AHM objected to the RPDs and responded,
without waiving responses that it would produce the confidential Warranty History,
subject to an appropriate protective order. 
As discussed above, the objections are overruled.  To the extent that AHM has documents within
its custody, possession, or control, it should produce the documents.  The motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 9-11,
such that documents should be produced subject to a protective order or a
privilege log should be produced.  Documents
created by defense attorneys or direct communications to and from defense
attorneys are excluded from this requirement.
            RPD
No. 15 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to AHM’s
rules, policies, or procedures since 2017 concerning the issuance of refunds to
buyers or providing replacement vehicles to buyers in the State of California
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
AHM objected to the RPD and responded, without waiving objections, that
it has
made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with the
RPD and has no written policies and/or procedures during the identified time
period concerning the issuance of refunds to buyers or providing replacement
vehicles to buyers in the State of California under the Act, and no such
documents have ever existed because it evaluates claims under the Act in good
faith on a case-by-case basis.  Here, AHM’s
response is code compliant as it states that no documents have ever
existed.  AHM
cannot
be ordered to produce documents that do not exist.  As such, the motion is denied as to RPD No.
15.  
            RPD
No. 16 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to AHM’s
Call Center Policies and Procedures for escalating customer complaints relating
to any defects present in their vehicle. 
AHM objected similarly as above and stated that it is unable to comply
with the request for similar reasons as No. 15 as no documents have ever
existed.  However, it responded that in
the interest of cooperation and though not technically responsive to the RPD,
it would produce guideline documents entitled “Lemon Law Inquiries,” “Early
Warning,” and “Attorney Involved” subject to a protective order.  For the same reasons as RPD No. 15, the
motion is denied as to RPD No. 16. 
            RPD
No. 17 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to AHM’s
Call Center Policies and Procedures for creating a Service Activity in response
to customer complaints relating to any defects present in their vehicle.  RPD No. 18 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to AHM’s Policies and Procedures for
determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under the Act.  RPD No. 19 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any flow charts used by AHM for the
purpose of escalating customer complaints. 
RPD No. 20 seeks all documents which evidence, describe, refer,
or relate to any flow charts used by AHM for the purpose of evaluating whether
a vehicle qualifies for repurchase or replacement under the Act.  RPD No. 21 seeks all documents
evidencing and/or describing AHM’s training materials related to its policy
regarding how to calculate a repurchase. RPD No. 22 seeks all documents
referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to any policies or procedures followed
by its Customer Relation Center to advise customers to deliver their vehicles
to its authorized repair facilities for further diagnosis or repair instead of
offering a repurchase or replacement of the vehicle under the Act.  AHM objected to the RPDs and responded
without waiving objections that it could not comply with the requests because it
has no written policies for creating a “Service Activity,” has no written
policies/procedures to determine whether a vehicle should be repurchased or
replaced under the Act, does not have flow charts, etc.  It states that no such documents have ever
existed.  For the same reasons as above,
the motion is denied as to RPD Nos. 17-22.  
            RPD
No. 23 seeks any document that refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy
and Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect
to how to determine whether repairs should be covered under warranty from 2017
to the present.  RPD No. 24 seeks
any document which refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect to whether
repairs should be covered under warranty as “goodwill” from 2017 to the
present.  RPD No. 25 seeks any
document which refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals
provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect to repeated repair
visits for similar complaints by the consumer from 2017 to the present. RPD
No. 26 seeks any document which refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy
and Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on what type
of repairs require approval by YOU in order to cover the repair under warranty
from 2017 to the present.  RPD No. 27
seeks any document which refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on the length
for test drives on certain customer complaints to be covered under warranty
from 2017 to the present.  RPD No. 28
seeks any document which refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on what type of
repairs will not be reimbursed by YOU as warranty repairs from 2017 to the
present.  RPD No. 29 seeks any
document which refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals
provided to its authorized repair facilities on how to handle customer concerns
that are not duplicated at the time of the repair visit from 2017 to the
present.
            AHM
objected to RPD Nos. 23-29 and responded that pursuant to a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, it has no automotive "Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual" provided to authorized Honda repair facilities and no such manual
has ever existed in its possession, custody, and control. Although it was not a
“Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual,” AHM offered to produce a copy of various
sections of its 2021-2023 Service Operations Manual, directed to warranty
repair, subject to an appropriate protective order in response to Nos. 23, 25,
and 28.  Although AHM objected to the RPDs,
it also responded that no such documents existed and that it would produce a
different type of document in the spirit of cooperation.  However, if no responsive document exists,
then AHM’s responses are code compliant. 
The motion is denied as to RPD Nos. 23-29.            
            RPD
No. 30 seeks all documents in the form of a list or compilation, of
other Customer Complaints in AHM’s electronically stored information of
database(s) that are substantially similar to complaints made by Plaintiff with
respect to the subject vehicle in other 2019 Honda HRV vehicles.  (“Substantially similar” is defined by
Plaintiff to mean similar customer complaint that would be the same nature of
the reported system, malfunction, trouble code, TSB Recommendation, dashboard
indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem, as description
listed in any warranty summary or repair order for the subject vehicle.)  AHM objected on similar grounds as above and
argued that Plaintiff is not entitled to seek unrelated complaints in other
2019 Honda HR-V vehicles.  As requested,
RPD No. 30 is overbroad.  While the RPD
seeks documents regarding the 2019 Honda HR-V vehicles, the RPD is not limited
in geographical location or time, and scope (i.e., specifically the electrical
and transmission defects, which should be more specifically described).  Rather, the RPD seeks documents regarding any
type of complaint that is “similar” to Plaintiff’s complaints.  The motion to compel Defendant’s further
response to RPD No. 30 is denied.   
RPD No. 31 seeks all documents that refer to, reflect, or relate to any Field
Service Action issued, or in the process of being issued, in response to
complaints experienced by Plaintiff as described in AHM’s warranty
history/summary and within the line items of the repair orders created at its
authorized repair facility.  AHM objected
to the RPD and responded without waiving objections that it is unable to comply
with the RPD because it has made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and has
no "Field Service Actions" and no responsive documents have ever
existed in its possession, custody, or control. 
This response is code compliant to show AHM’s inability to comply based
on the nonexistence of the documents requested. 
As such, the motion is denied as to RPD No. 31.  
No sanctions were requested.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
             Plaintiff Oscar Ochoa’s motion to compel Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-6, 9-11, and
13-14 is granted, but subject to the limitation stated in the Court’s written
order.  The motion is denied as to RPD
Nos. 7-8, 12, and 15-31.  Defendant is
ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this
order.  
Plaintiffs shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: April 26,
2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    