 Case Number:  23BBCV00852    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
modern
  hr, inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
lawrence
  feigen, et al.,
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00852
 
  Hearing Date:  April 26, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Modern HR, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that it is an outsourced human resources provider that works with many industries
all over the country.  It alleges that in
December 2021, it entered into a contract with SA Hospital Acquisition, LLC
(“SAH”), which was owned by Defendants Lawrence Feigen and Jeffrey
Ahlholm.  Plaintiff alleges that under
its agreement with SAH, SAH agreed to use Plaintiff’s HR services and Feigen
and Ahlholm each personally guaranteed SAH’s payment and performance
obligations under the agreement.  Plaintiff
alleges that SAH began having difficulty submitting timely and complete
payments to Plaintiff and, after discussing the issues with Defendants,
Plaintiff continued to provide services and even advanced its own funds to meet
SAH’s payroll demands.  Plaintiff alleges
that in April 2022, Feigen and Ahlholm convinced some of their associates to
make payments to Plaintiff on SAH’s behalf, including Defendant Kris Smolinski who
paid $300,000 to Plaintiff by credit card. 
Plaintiff alleges that SAH continued to fail meeting its financial obligations.  On May 2, 2022, the parties executed a
Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the parties’ payment and reimbursement
schedule, but SAH failed to make the first $500,000 payment on May 3,
2022.  On May 10, 2022, SAH signed a
letter of intent (“LOI”) to sell South City Hospital to American Healthcare
Systems.  In late March 2023, Smolinski
initiated a chargeback on his $300,000 payment, claiming it was not an
authorized payment.  
 The
complaint, filed April 19, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract; (2) money lent; (3) breach of contract; and (4) breach of contract
(third party beneficiary).   
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a single
motion to compel Defendants Feigen and Ahlholm’s further responses to the
Requests for Production of Documents (“RPD”) Nos. 1, 11-13, 15-19, 22-23, and
25-27, and Special Interrogatory (“SROG”) Nos. 4-7.  (In the future, Plaintiff should file these
motions separately for each Defendant and for each set of discovery at issue and
pay separate filing fees.) 
On April 15, 2024, Feigen and Ahlholm
filed an opposition brief.
April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief.  
DISCUSSION

A.    RPD 
Plaintiff moves
to compel each of Defendants Feigen and Ahlholm’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1, 11-13, 15-19, 22-23, and 25-27.  The Court will consider the requests directed
at Feigen and Ahlholm together
as the RPDs and responses are essentially identical.  
RPD
No. 1 seeks all documents and communications that
mention/reference Plaintiff.  RPD No. 11 seeks documents
sufficient to identify all third parties who made payments to Plaintiff on
SAH’s behalf.  RPD Nos. 12-13 seek all documents/communications
(12) where Defendants asked or instructed a third party to make payments to
Plaintiff on SAH’s behalf; and (13) reflecting the payments all third parties
made to Plaintiff on SAH’s behalf.  RPD No. 15 seeks documents
sufficient to show the nature of the relationship between Defendants and
Smolinski.  RPD
Nos. 16-17 seek all communications between Defendants and
Smolinski referencing or concerning (16) Plaintiff and (17) South City
Hospital. RPD Nos. 18-19 seek all communication (18) where Defendants asked/instructed Smolinski
to pay Plaintiff on SAH’s behalf and (19) between Defendants and Smolinski
referencing/concerning the payment.  RPD No. 22 seeks all
documents and communications reflecting any oral agreements Defendants entered
into with Smolinski.  RPD No. 23 seeks all
documents evidencing any and all monetary payments Smolinski made to
Defendants.  RPD
Nos. 25-27 seek all communications between Defendants and
Smolinski concerning (25) South City Hospital and (26)/(27) the payment.  
Defendants
objected to each of the RPDs, on the grounds that they were vague, overly broad
and burdensome, an invasion of their right of privacy and of non-party third
persons, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; and violated the attorney-client privilege and work product privileges.  Without waiving objections, Defendants stated
they would produce bates stamped documents MODERNHR000001-000004.  Plaintiff argues that it is unlikely that
only 4 pages of documents are responsive to each of the RPDs at issue and that,
given the parties’ relationship, there must be more than 4 pages of documents
total.  In opposition, Defendants argue the
merits of the case and that the guaranty agreements have been terminated.  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s meet
and confer attempts were lacking.  
With respect to
the meet and confer attempts, it appears that Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to
seek dates via email from defense counsel to engage in communications, but no
dates were provided.  (Frid Decl., ¶7,
Ex. 4.)  It does not appear that further
meet and confer attempts were made—by telephone or by letter to inform
Defendants of how their responses were deficient.  The Court will still consider the merits of
the motion to compel further responses, but will consider the lack of meet and
confer when discussing sanctions.  
In ascertaining
whether discovery of documents is proper, the Court will not prematurely make a
determination on the merits of the action. 
In addition, it is Defendants’ burden to substantiate their objections,
but they have not done so here.  The RPDs
are not vague as asked and Defendants have not shown how the RPDs are overly
broad or burdensome such that Defendants are unable to answer.  The claims of privileges too have not been
substantiated but if Defendants claim there is a privilege that applies, then
they may produce a privilege log.  The
RPDs directly address the allegations of the complaint regarding the
relationship between Plaintiff, SAH, Feigen, Alholm, and Smolinski, as well as
the parties’ communications during their contractual relationship, and whether
payments were made in conformance with contract obligations.  
As such, the
motion to compel further responses to the RPDs is granted.  
B.     SROG
Plaintiff moves
to compel each of Defendants Feigen and Ahlholm’s further responses to SROG Nos. 4-7. 
The Court will consider the requests directed at Feigen and Ahlholm together as the SROGs and responses are
essentially identical.  
SROG
No. 4 asks Defendants to detail each instance when a
third party made a payment to Plaintiff on SAH’s behalf, and to include the
name of the third party, the amount, and the date.  SROG No. 5 asks Defendants to explain the process by which SAH secured the payment
from Smolinski including, but not limited to, what SAH informed Smolinski the
payment was for.  SROG No. 6 asks Defendants
to explain whether SAH agreed to reimburse Smolinski for the payment and
whether that was agreed to in writing.  SROG No. 7 asks Defendants
to explain their understanding of their financial obligation under the
MOU.  
Defendants
objected to the SROGs on the grounds that they were vague, overly broad and
burdensome, an invasion of their right of privacy and of non-party third
persons, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; and violated the attorney-client privilege and work product
privileges.  Without waiving responses,
Defendants responded: “SA
Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC entered into an oral agreement with Kris
Smolinski wherein Mr. Smolinski agreed to loan SA Hospital Acquisition Group,
LLC $300,000. Additionally, SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC entered into an
agreement with American Healthcare services in which American Healthcare
Services assumed the debts of SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC including any
debts owed with Modern HR. Moreover, Modern HR agreed to allow American
Healthcare Services to assume this debts [sic], thereby discharging SA Hospital
Acquisition Group, LLC, Mr. Ahlholm, and Mr. Feigen from any liability
associated with any debts they may owe to Modern HR.”
While Defendants have responded in some
form, the response does not necessarily address the SROGs at issue.  For example, No. 4 asks Defendants to detail
each instance a third party made a payment to Plaintiff on SAH’s behalf,
including name, amount, and date. 
Defendants’ blanket response identified Smolinski and the $300,000
payment but fails to provide a date. 
Further, if AHS has assumed SAH’s debts, then Defendants should also
provide any payments, amounts, and dates made by AHS.  Defendants should respond to each of the
SROGs at issue directly.  For the same
reasons discussed above, the objections are overruled. 
The motion is granted as to SROG Nos.
4-7.  
C.     Sanctions 
Plaintiff seeks
$1,900 in sanctions against Defendants for bringing this motion.  Counsel A. Sasha Frid states that she spent 1
hour on the motion at $1,250/hour and Danielle Novelly spent 3 hours on the
motion at $775/hour, but they will only be seeking $1,900 total.  (Frid Decl., ¶8.)  As discussed above, the Court will consider
Plaintiff’s lack of meet and confer attempts when issuing sanctions.  Total, the Court will award $1,000 in
sanctions for this motion.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendants Lawrence Feigen and Jeffrey Ahlholm’s further responses to
the Requests for Production of Documents Nos. 1, 11-13, 15-19, 22-23, and 25-27 and Special Interrogatory Nos. 4-7 is
granted.  Defendants are ordered to
provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendants and
their counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,000 to Plaintiff, by and
through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
 
DATED:  April 26, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court