 Case Number:  24LBCV00402    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
This is a habitability and tenant
harassment dispute. On February 29, 2024, plaintiff Luis M. Falcon sued
defendants (1) Yolanda Fernandez, as an individual (“Yolanda”, for clarity
rather than out of familiarity or disrespect), (2-3) Albertina C. Fernandez,
individually (“Albertina”) and in her capacity as trustee of the Albertina C.
Fernandez 2002 Trust, dated February 15, 2002, and (4) the Albertina C.
Fernandez 2002 Trust, dated February 15, 2022, separately named (“the Trust”).
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment, (4) trespass, (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (7) negligence, (8)
wrongful eviction (Civ. Code, § 789.3), (9) constructive eviction, and (10)
tenant harassment (Civ. Code, § 1240.2).
As alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint
and accepted as true for purposes of a demurrer and motion to strike (paragraph
citations to the complaint unless otherwise noted):
Beginning in July 2020, Plaintiff
rented and resided in a residential unit at 1456 Chestnut Ave., #6, Long Beach
(“the Property”). (¶ 6.) The Trust owns the Property. (¶ 2.) Plaintiff is
fifty-three (53) years old; he suffered a stroke in September 2021. (¶ 6.) He
is now a dependent adult. (¶ 8.)
At some point after the onset of
the COVID-19 pandemic, Plaintiff failed to pay rent for the first time during
his tenancy. (¶ 7.) Yolanda, who acted as “authorized agent for the [Property]”
(¶4), “adamantly demanded rent and refused to cooperate with any type of
government agency” (¶ 7). 
Plaintiff is an African Cuban of
Yoruban faith. (¶ 9.) In fall of 2021, while Plaintiff was hospitalized after
his stroke, Yolanda approached Plaintiff’s son and caretaker and stated that “
‘you guys need to get out you and your voodoo’ ”. (¶ 8.) On an unspecified date
after Plaintiff returned home, Yolanda approached him directly and
misrepresented the nature of a “unilateral pre-printed ‘Notice to Vacate’ ”,
stating “it was needed for the ‘rental assistance program’ and [there was]
‘nothing to be worried about’ ”. (¶ 9.) 
In addition to the above-mentioned
conduct, “on February 2nd 2022, Defendant entered the Property illegally” over
Plaintiff’s objection. (¶¶ 22, 25.)
The complaint appears to refer to
the parties’ rental agreement, the Notice to Vacate, and the subsequent
unlawful detainer judgment all as “written contract[s]”, and Plaintiff
indicates he attached them as exhibits. No exhibits to the complaint appear in
the Court’s record.
On May 23, 2024, Defendants
demurred to and moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint. On August
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition. Defendants filed no reply.
 
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Meet
and Confer
Code of Civil Procedure sections
430.41 and 435.5 require a moving party to meet and confer with its opponents
prior to filing a demurrer or motion to strike, respectively. Defendants’
counsel submitted a declaration that satisfies those sections. (Carini Decsl.,
¶¶ 8-9.) 
b.     Legal
Standard
A demurrer is a relatively commonplace procedure used in the early
stages of a lawsuit for one party to challenge the basis for the other party’s
claim for relief. Where one party claims the other’s initial complaint or
answer is defective, that party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer. (Coyne
v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) 
A demurrer addresses only “the face of the pleadings” – that is, it only
deals with the allegations within the complaint itself. (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The court does not accept evidence in support
of a demurrer, unless the evidence is properly subject to judicial notice
(e.g., evidence that neither party can reasonably dispute, or that is readily
available from public records). (See Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
In fact, in ruling on a demurrer to a complaint, the court accepts all
of the facts in the complaint as true. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court
examines the complaint and asks whether, if all the facts in it are true, the
plaintiff has shown he or she is entitled to relief. (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) A court considers the allegations in the complaint in their full context,
and if they are ambiguous the court construes them liberally in favor of the party
who filed the pleading that has been challenged. (Serrano v. Priest
(1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)
Even liberally construed, however, a pleading subject to demurrer must
state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action on which a plaintiff
bases his claim to relief. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10; Young v. Gannon
(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 209, 220.) A valid complaint must state “facts
constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.10, subd. (a)(1).) The
allegations must be reasonably clear and certain, so the defendant can
ascertain the precise facts on which the plaintiff bases his claim and deny
them or defend against them as necessary. (Committee On Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
211–212.) “The complaint in a civil action serves a variety of purposes … :
[among other things,] it serves to frame and limit the issues … and to apprise
the defendant of the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking recovery . . .
.” (Ibid.) 
Even if a complaint fails because
it is uncertain or fails to state a cause of action, the court is required to
give a party leave to file a new, amended complaint where it appears there is “a
reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by
amendment . . . .” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District, supra, 2
Cal.4th  at p. 967.) In fact, “[a]
demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint . . .
can state a cause of action under any theory . . . .” (Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037.)
c.     Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests judicial notice
of an unlawful detainer judgment entered against Plaintiff, in Albertina’s
favor, on May 9, 2022. The request is denied. The Court may not take notice of
the contents of the document, and the fact that the judgment was entered is
irrelevant to Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike. 
d.     Demurrer
by the Trust
The Court notes, as an initial
matter, that the Trust is not a legally cognizable defendant on its own. “In
contrast to a corporation, which the law often deems a person, a trust is not a
person but rather ‘ “ ‘a fiduciary relationship with respect to property.’
... ” ’ ... ‘Legal title to property owned by a trust is held by the trustee.
... “A ... trust ... is simply a collection of assets of liabilities.” ’ ” ...
‘[A]n ordinary express trust is not an entity separate from its trustees. [¶] A
trust itself cannot sue or be sued. ... ‘As a general rule, the trustee is the
real party in interest with standing to sue and defend on the trust’s behalf.
... .’ ...
‘A claim based on a contract entered into by a trustee in the trustee’s
representation capacity, may be asserted against the trust by proceeding
against the trustee in the trustee’s representative capacity ... .’ ... .”
(Portico Management Group, LLC v. Harrison (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 464,
473, internal citations omitted.)
            Put simply:
the Trust is not an entity that can be sued. In fact, under California law, it
is not a separate entity at all. Barring some exception – and none is evident from
the complaint – the proper defendant in a suit against the Trust is Albertina,
as trustee. Plaintiff has named Albertina in her capacities as both individual
and trustee, so the Trust is an improperly named defendant and a redundant one.
The demurrer is sustained as to the Trust without leave to amend.
            c.
Demurrer for Uncertainty
            Defendants
demur to all Plaintiff’s claims on the basis of uncertainty. The complaint is
not fatally uncertain. “A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain ... .” (Khoury v. Maly's
of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) In fact, it should be “ ‘ “granted only if the
pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” ’
” (Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279, 292.) The
demurrer is not so unintelligible that defendants cannot respond at all.
Defendants’ argument on this point is unpersuasive.
            d.
Demurrer for Failure to State a Claim
            Although
the complaint is not fatally uncertain, the Court nonetheless sustains the
demurrer for failure to state a claim. A complaint may describe a plaintiff’s
claim with “ultimate facts” – that is, the complaint does not need to lay out
all of the plaintiff’s evidence in order to state a claim. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 719; see also Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) But the
complaint must still contain sufficient facts to place a defendant on notice of
the basis for the plaintiff’s claim. (See Committee On Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp., supra, 35 Cal.3d, at
pp. 211–212.) Plaintiff’s complaint does not, as to any of his causes of
action.
            First: all
of the causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint are based on Yolanda’s
misconduct. But no facts in the complaint establish Yolanda’s
relationship to Albertina or the Trust. The allegations strongly imply Yolanda
managed the Property on Albertina’s behalf, but the complaint does not state as
much. Plaintiff alleges Yolanda was the “authorized agent of the real
property”, not for any individual. (See Compl., ¶ 4.) The complaint contains
the legal conclusion that Defendants acted as each other’s agents, with no
supporting facts. (See id., 2:23-28.) Without facts establishing why
Yolanda can be held liable as though she were Plaintiff’s landlord or why
Plaintiff’s landlord can be held liable for Yolanda’s misconduct, Plaintiff has
not stated a claim against any of the defendants.
            Apart from
failure to plead Yolanda’s agency, Plaintiff also fails to plead facts
sufficient to state his causes of action individually. He alleges (1) the
parties had a rental contract; (2) Yolanda improperly induced him to sign a
voluntary Notice to Vacate; (3) Defendants filed an unlawful detainer action
against him; and (4) Yolanda entered his residence over his objection on
February 2, 2022. (Compl., ¶¶ 9-10, 13, 21, 25.) Neither (1) or (3), by itself,
is wrongful. And Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts to place defendants
on notice of claims (2) or (4).
            Based on
the foregoing, the non-Trust defendants’ demurrer is sustained.
            e. Leave
to Amend
            Plaintiff
has more than demonstrated a capacity to amend his complaint and state a claim.
His complaint refers to several crucial exhibits that the Court assumes were
omitted from his filing in error. Plaintiff provides dates of incidents and
facts that, if elucidated further, could easily state a claim under several of
the legal theories he has proposed. The Court grants Plaintiff sixty days’
leave to amend, the ordinary period lengthened to account for any complications
that might arise based on Plaintiff’s health.
 
            3.   Motion to Strike
            The
demurrer having been sustained in its entirety, Defendants’ motion to strike is
moot.
 
4.   Conclusion
As to defendant Albertina C.
Fernandez 2002 Trust, dated February 15, 2002, the demurrer is sustained in its
entirety without leave to amend.
As to the remaining defendants, the
demurrer is sustained in its entirety with sixty (60) days’ leave to amend.
Defendants’ motion to strike is
denied as moot.
Moving defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.