 Case Number:  23LBCV01988    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Sherri Frost filed this
action against Defendants, SoCal Tow & Impound LLC and 1025 McFarland LLC
dba Pacific RV Park on 10/17/23.  The
complaint is for general negligence and alleges McFarland hired SoCal Tow to
remove Plaintiff’s trailer from McFarland’s park, but SoCal Tow did so while
Plaintiff was IN the trailer, causing her to suffer personal injuries.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on
10/17/23.  Plaintiff filed proof of
service of the summons and complaint on McFarland on 1/04/24 and on SoCal Tow
on 1/05/24.  On 3/12/24, at Plaintiff’s
request, the Clerk entered McFarland’s default. 

 
On 3/12/24, Plaintiff filed a doe
amendment to the complaint, naming Sean Robert Gowers dba SoCal Tow &
Impound as Doe 1.  
 
On 5/28/24, the Clerk, at
Plaintiff’s request, entered SoCal Tow & Impound, LLC’s default.  The same day, Plaintiff filed proof of
service of the summons and complaint on Gowers dba SoCal Tow & Impound via
substitute service.  
 
On 7/24/24, at Plaintiff’s request,
the Clerk entered the default of Gowers dba SoCal Tow & Impound.  On the same day, Plaintiff filed a doe
amendment naming SG Industries as Doe 2. 
On 8/14/24, Plaintiff filed a doe amendment naming Eugene Burger
Management Corporation as Doe 3.  
 
On 9/03/24, Plaintiff filed proof
of service of the summons and complaint on SG Industries via substitute service
on Gowers.  
 
2.     Motion
to Quash
a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendants move to quash service of
the summons and complaint, contending they were not personally or substitute
served, and Plaintiff did not request or obtain an order to post the summons
and complaint.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She contends she has properly served both
SoCal Tow & Impound, LLC as well as Gowers dba SoCal Tow.  
 
b.    
Initial Note
The motion is purportedly made on
behalf of “Sean Gowers aka Sean R.
Gowers dba SoCal Tow & Impound adba SG Industries; and Does 1-10, Inclusive.”  
 
There are, however, three named defendants in the action who potentially
play a role in this motion.  The first is
SoCal Tow & Impound, LLC; this defendant does not appear to be moving to
quash.  The second is Doe 1, Sean
Robert Gowers dba SoCal Tow & Impound, who is possibly moving to
quash.  The third is Doe 2, SG
Industries, which is possibly also moving to quash.  
 
Persons and entities who are not
parties to the lawsuit cannot move to quash service of the summons and
complaint.  These persons and entities
made need to be added as doe defendants, but unless and until they are, they
are not parties to the action.  
 
c.     Default
SoCal Tow & Impound, LLC and Sean Robert Gowers dba SoCal Tow &
Impound are both in default.  Entry
of Defendant's default instantaneously cuts off his right to appear in the
action.  A defaulted defendant is “out of
court.”  He has no right to participate
in the proceedings until either (a) his default is set aside (in which event, he
may respond to the complaint), or (b) a default judgment is entered (in which
event, he may appeal).  See Devlin v.
Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386.
 
Thus, to the extent the motion is made as to these two defendants, it is
summarily denied because they are in default.
 
d.    
Does
The motion is purportedly made on behalf of Does 1-10.  Does 1-3 have been named and served, and if
they wish to quash service, they must do so in their capacity as named
defendants; notably, it appears that is what this motion is attempting to do,
to the extent it is made by Gowers and/or SG. 
Does 4-10 have not been named or served, and there has been no purported
service on them; thus, quashing service on them would be nonsensical.  To the extent the motion seeks to quash
service on does, it is denied.  
 
e.    
SG Industries
SG Industries was not sued as Gowers’s dba, which is the capacity in
which it moves to quash service of the summons and complaint.  It was sued as stand-alone entity.  The entity was served on 8/20/24 by
substitute service on Gowers, with proof of service filed on 9/03/24.  Notably, this was more than a month after
Defendants filed their motion, and therefore this service cannot form the basis
of the motion.  To the extent SG
Industries is moving to quash, there was no proof of service on SG Industries
that pre-dated the filing of the motion, so there is nothing to quash, and the
motion is denied.
  
            e.  Final Note
            The crux of
the motion appears to be that Gowers and his related entities have not been
served.  Gowers declares that he was not
personally served and, to his knowledge, no one has been served on his behalf.  The Court finds the declaration lacks the
specificity that would be required to overcome the presumption of validity of
the proofs of service, signed by registered process servers, attesting to
service on Gowers and his related entities. 
See Floveyor Int’l, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
789, 795.  The motion is therefore also
denied on its merits.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.
 