 Case Number:  23LBCV02163    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
for Leave to Amend
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiffs seek leave to file an
amended complaint adding a claim for retaliatory eviction.  Defendant opposes, contending Plaintiffs
delayed in filing the motion and it will be prejudiced if the motion is
granted.  Defendant contends the proposed
amended complaint does not relate back to the original complaint.  Plaintiffs, in reply, contend they made the
motion as soon as possible upon realizing relief was necessary, and there is no
prejudice to Defendant in the event the motion is granted.  They contend the proposed amended complaint
relates back to the original complaint.
 
a.    
Law Governing Motions for Leave to Amend 
The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading.  (CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.  (California
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274,
281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend
should be made as soon as the need to amend is discovered.  The closer the trial date, the stronger the
showing required for leave to amend.  If
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party, the Court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
b.    
Analysis
As noted above, the motion can only
be denied due to delay if the Court finds the delay has prejudiced
Defendant.  In this case, any prejudice
is minimal, as the new cause of action does not greatly expand the issues
between the parties, and the prejudice can be cured through a brief trial
continuance.
 
The parties discuss whether or not
the retaliation claim relates back to the original complaint, but Defendant
does not argue the claim would be barred by the statute of limitations in the
event it does not relate back.  If there
is no SOL bar, then relation back is not a material issue concerning whether or
not to permit leave to amend.  If there
is an SOL bar, Defendant is welcome to challenge the amended pleading on this ground,
but it has not been meaningfully raised or briefed in connection with this motion
for leave to amend.  
 
The motion is granted.  
 
2.     Application
to Continue Trial Date
On 10/09/24, the Court heard an ex
parte application to continue the trial date. 
The Court vacated the trial date and otherwise continued the hearing on
the application.  The Court will discuss
a new FSC and trial date with the parties at the time of the hearing.  
 
The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion and
application.  