 Case Number:  23LBCV01384    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Elsy Henriquez filed this action against Defendants,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Caliber Motors, Inc. dba Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim for
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act and negligent repair.  
 
2.    
Motion for Summary Judgment
a.     Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff’s sole cause of action against Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim dba
Caliber Motors is for negligent repair. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached the standard of care in connection
with the storage, preparation, and repair of the subject automobile.  
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment on the complaint, contending (a)
it never repaired the subject vehicle and therefore cannot be liable for
negligent repair, and (b) Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the economic loss
rule.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
She argues (a) Defendant negligently and wrongly diagnosed the vehicle,
which is sufficient to state a claim for negligent repair, and (b) the economic
loss rule does not apply under the circumstances.  
 
b.     Initial Note
Defendant, at page 3, line 4, of its motion indicates the motion is for
summary judgment/adjudication.  There was
no motion for summary adjudication noticed, and the Court presumes this
sentence is in error.  The Court will not
rule on any alternative motion for summary adjudication, as none was made.
 
c.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
d.    
Diagnosis
vs. Repair
Civil Code §1796.5 governs claims for negligent repair.  It provides, “Any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal relationship which engages in the
business of providing service or repair to new or used consumer goods has a
duty to the purchaser to perform those services in a good and workmanlike manner.”
 
Defendant provides evidence that it never repaired Plaintiff’s
vehicle.  Plaintiff concedes as much in
opposition to the motion.  She provides
evidence, in opposition to the motion, that she brought her vehicle to
Defendant for diagnosis, it diagnosed the problem as being battery-related, she
knew it was not battery-related, and therefore she did not have Defendant
repair the problem.  
 
Notably, it is not clear whether Plaintiff’s complaint encompasses a
claim for negligent diagnosis.  The
complaint, as discussed above, alleges Defendant breached the standard of care
in connection with the storage, preparation, and repair of the subject
automobile.  If Defendant did not store,
prepare, or repair the vehicle, any claim for negligent diagnosis falls outside
the allegations of the complaint.  
 
Neither party cites any authority interpreting §1796.5, and it does not
appear substantial authority exists in this regard.  Plaintiff cites BPC §9880, which defines an
automotive repair dealer to include a person who diagnoses malfunctions of
motor vehicles.  
 
Absent on point authority, the Court finds a claim for negligent
diagnosis can be stated against a repair dealer under the circumstances.  Again, it is not clear if such a claim has
been stated.  Because Plaintiff did not
suffer damages (discussed below), it is not necessary to determine this issue.
 
e.    
Damages
Defendant also argues it is
entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff suffered no damages as a result
of any failure to diagnose the vehicle. 
Damages are, of course, a necessary element to a claim for negligence.  
 
Plaintiff does not address this
argument in opposition to the motion. 
Fact 8 establishes Plaintiff never paid Defendant any money. Plaintiff
admits fact 8 is undisputed.  Plaintiff,
in her additional facts, provides evidence that she would have been charged
$3000 if she had engaged Defendant to repair the vehicle.  She admits, however, that she did not do so.
 
Defendant established Plaintiff did
not suffer damages as a result of the negligent diagnosis.  Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact.  The motion for summary
judgment on this ground is granted.
 
f.     
Economic Loss Rule
Defendant contends the economic
loss rule bars Plaintiff’s claim. 
Notably, the Court need not consider this argument, as the motion is
granted on the above ground.  In the
interest of being thorough, the Court has considered the argument.  
 
The economic loss rule bars
recovery in tort for economic damages caused by a defective product unless
those losses are accompanied by some form of personal injury or damage to
property other than the defective product itself.  Under the economic loss rule, “appreciable,
nonspeculative, present injury is an essential element of a tort cause of
action.”  (Aas v. Superior Court (2000)
24 Cal.4th 627, 646.)  Construction
defects that have not ripened into property damage, or at least into
involuntary out-of-pocket losses do not fit the definition of “appreciable
harm,” which is an essential element of a negligence claim.  (Id.) 
The economic loss rule allows a plaintiff to recover in tort when a
product defect causes damage to “other property,” that is, property other than
the product itself.  (Id., at p.
639.)  To apply the economic loss rule,
the court must first determine what the product at issue is.  Only then do we find out whether the injury
is to the product itself (for which recovery is barred by the economic loss
rule) or to property other than the defective product (for which plaintiffs may
recover in tort).
 
The economic loss rule has been
applied primarily in the construction context, and it is not clear how it
applies here.  The parties discuss
Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th
979.  Robinson, while not decided in the
construction context, also involved component parts.  
 
It does not appear the economic
loss rule plays any role in the defense of this case.  There is no contention that a component part
caused damage to a whole, or even that a component part is at issue.  This is a simple negligent repair case; if
Defendant conducted negligent repairs and they caused damage, then Defendant
would be liable for the damage.  If
Defendant did not do so, then it is not liable. 
The Court finds the economic loss rule is not relevant.  
 
g.     Conclusion

The motion is granted on the ground
that Defendant met its burden to show Plaintiff did not suffer damages as a
result of the failure to diagnose, and Plaintiff failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   