 Case Number:  23LBCV02166    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jacqueline Monique
Rivera filed this action against Defendants, Albert N. Amador, Jr., Margaret
Amador, Danielle Whitney Moore, and Keller Williams Realty L.A. Harbor for
quiet title and related claims arising out of the sale of the subject property.  Plaintiff alleges she was the majority
beneficiary of Decedent, Ruth Amador’s trust. 
The Amadors were the minority beneficiaries.  Plaintiff alleges the Amadors conspired with
Moore, who worked for KWRLA, to evict her from the property and sell the
property.  
 
On 12/21/23, Moore and Keller
Williams for a special motion to strike pursuant to the anti-SLAPP
statute.  They set the motion for hearing
on 3/7/24.  On 2/23/24, Plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal of all claims against all defendants.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Relief Sought
Moore and Keller Williams seek to
recover their attorneys’ fees spent in connection with the anti-SLAPP
motion.  
 
b.    
Law Governing Fee Recovery
A plaintiff's voluntary dismissal
of a suit, after a section 425.16 motion to strike has been filed, neither
automatically precludes a court from awarding a defendant attorney's fees and
costs under that section, nor automatically requires such an award.  The trial court's adjudication of the merits
of a defendant's motion to strike is an essential predicate to ruling on the
defendant's request for an award of fees and costs.  An award of these expenses under section
425.16 is only justified when a defendant demonstrates that plaintiff's action
falls within the provisions of subdivision (b) and the plaintiff is unable to
establish a reasonable probability of success. Until a court determines that
these circumstances exist, a moving defendant is not entitled to its fees and
costs under section 425.16.  (Liu v.
Moore (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 745, 752-753.)
 
c.    
Analysis
Defendants contend they would have
prevailed on the original anti-SLAPP motion such that they are entitled to an
award of their fees.  Defendants
adequately establish that the lawsuit against them is based on protected
activity, as it is based on a purported wrongful eviction proceeding by
Defendants against Plaintiff.  Under the
anti-SLAPP statute, once the moving defendant meets the initial burden to show
protected activity, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show a probability of
success on the merits.  Plaintiff did not
oppose the original motion, and does not oppose this motion; she has therefore
necessarily failed to meet that burden. 
Defendants are consequentially entitled to recover their attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the proceedings against them.
 
d.     Amount
of Fees
Defendants seek to recover fees in
the amount of $20,700.34.  Defendants
support their motion with the declaration of their attorney, Matthew D.
Murphey.  The declaration is sufficient
to fully support all fees sought, and to show that the fees were both
reasonably and actually incurred.  In the
absence of opposition, the motion is granted in full.  
 
e.     Conclusion
Defendants’ motion for attorneys’
fees is granted.  Defendants are awarded
attorneys’ fees in the amount of $20,700.34. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.