 Case Number:  23STCV30438    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Pampanga Master Grill, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV30438




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Core Value Advisors, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 21, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants SCG Bahay Apartments, LLC
and SRG Residential
Responding Party: Plaintiff Pampanga Master Grill, Inc.
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE THIRD CAUSE
OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITHIN 
30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS
TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff sued
Defendants, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (3) negligence. Plaintiff,
a commercial tenant of a unit owned and managed by Defendants, alleges another
tenant improperly installed duct work; Defendants failed to remove or remedy
the improper duct work, preventing Plaintiff from completing construction in
Plaintiff’s unit. 
 
Following Defendants’ demurrer,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on May 28, 2024.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of the
matters asserted therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for negligence on the
ground that it is barred by the economic loss rule. (See Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) In response to the previous
demurrer, Plaintiff argued that the negligence cause of action fell within the
fraud exception to the economic loss rule. The Court sustained the demurrer
because Plaintiff did not allege fraud. 
 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ predecessor represented
in Section 2.3 of the Lease that “the Premises was
in full compliance with the building codes, applicable laws, covenants or
restrictions of record,” inducing Plaintiff to enter into the lease. Plaintiff
alleges that this proved to be untrue, causing Plaintiff damage. Plaintiff
asserts that this negligence cause of action sufficiently alleges fraudulent
inducement by concealment. 
 
Defendants assert that these
allegations fail to state a claim against Defendants for fraud or negligence. The
Court agrees. Fraud must be pleaded with specificity. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) Plaintiff alleges
facts showing only that Defendants’ predecessor made misrepresentations in the
lease. The FAC contains no specific facts showing Defendants made
misrepresentations. This is insufficient to state a claim for fraud or
negligence.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Plaintiff requests leave to change the third
cause of action to fraud. The Court will allow this amendment.
 
In reply, Defendants also
assert Plaintiff cannot prosecute this action because they are a suspended
corporation. Defendants request that the Court disregard Plaintiff’s
opposition, strike the FAC, and strike Plaintiff’s answer to Defendants’
cross-complaint. As Defendants have raised this issue in reply, Plaintiff did
not have an opportunity to address these arguments. The Court will consider
Plaintiff’s opposition. If Defendant seeks to strike the FAC and answer to the
cross-complaint, Defendant may file a properly noticed motion requesting this
relief. 
 
 
 
 