  Case Number:  23STCV10749    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Agustin Arias, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV10749




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Guillermina Patron, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 21, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Deposition
Moving Party: Defendant Estela Villasenor
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Agustin Arias and Sandra
Gonzalez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED.
PLAINTIFF IS ORDERED TO APPEAR FOR DEPOSITION WITHIN 45 DAYS OF NOTICE
OF RULING.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
Defendant moves to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff Agustin Arias. Defendant asserts Plaintiff has refused
to appear for deposition. In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel represents that
they are not opposed to the deposition, but counsel is not available until
December 2024. Defendant is entitled to take the deposition of Plaintiff. The
Court will GRANT this motion. As this is merely a scheduling dispute, the Court
declines to award sanctions.


 