 Case Number:  24NNCV00381    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 13,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION & STAY MATTER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00381

 



MP:  


Nissan-Infiniti LT LLC & Nissan
  Motor Acceptance Company, LLC (Defendants)




RP:  


Kamo Arustamyan (Plaintiff) [No
  Opposition Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Kamo Arustamyan (Plaintiff) bring this action against Nissan-Infiniti
LT LLC (Nissan) for claims arising out of the
purchase of a 2021 Infiniti Q50 (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint alleges,
among other things, that he was damaged by the terms of the Lease Agreement,
and he was fraudulently induced into signing. The vast majority of Plaintiff’s
claims concern his allegation that he was improperly excluded from any
insurance payout when the vehicle was rendered a total loss following a December
23 ,2021 incident. 
 
Nissan
now moves to compel Plaintiffs’ claims against them to arbitration. Nissan
argues these claims are subject to arbitration pursuant to the agreement
contained in the Lease Agreement signed between Plaintiff and the dealership,
which was subsequently assigned to Nissan. Plaintiff has filed no opposition to
this motion, and indicated they would not do so in a July 31, 2024 Case
Management Statement.   
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
Moving
party has filed a notice of non-opposition.  
The Court notes, failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates
the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule
8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Arbitration Clause 
 
As evidence of an
arbitration agreement between the parties, Nissan submits a copy of the Motor
Vehicle Lease Agreement (Lease Agreement) between Plaintiff and Glendale
Infiniti (Dealership). Nissan further states that the Lease Agreement between
Plaintiff and Glendale Infiniti was thereafter assigned to Nissan-Infiniti LT
and serviced by Nissan Motor Acceptance Company, LLC (NMAC). (Blakney Decl. ¶¶ 2,
5.) 
 
The Lease Agreement
contains an arbitration clause at paragraph 31 which reads in relevant part: 
 
1. Either you or we may choose to have any dispute between us
decided by arbitration and not in court or by jury trial. 
 
2. If a dispute is arbitrated, you will give up your right to
participate as a class representative or class member on any class claim you
may have against us including any right to class arbitration or any
consolidation of individual arbitrations. 
 
3. Discovery and rights to appeal in arbitration are generally
more limited than in a lawsuit, and other rights that you and we would have in
court may not be available in arbitration….
 
…[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or
otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Clause,
and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our
employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to
your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract
or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship
with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our
election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action…
 
…This Arbitration Clause shall survive any termination, payoff or
transfer of this lease….
 
(Blakney Decl. Exh. A, p.
4.) 
 
The Plaintiff has declined
to oppose the motion.  Pursuant to CRC
Rule 8.54(c), the failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the
other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. 
As such, the Court need not
conduct its own independent analysis seeking to substitute its judgment and
legal analysis to find fault, if any, with Plaintiff’s motion.   
 
As such, the Court finds Nissan
has provided sufficient evidence that Plaintiff’s dispute is subject to
arbitration and the burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show falsity or
unenforceability. Plaintiff, having submitted no opposition to this motion, has
not upheld his burden. Given that the arbitration clause is present in
Plaintiff’s Complaint, the Court sees no facial claim for falsity. Further, the
language of the arbitration agreement appears to bind both parties equally and
is not facially unconscionable.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Stay 
 
Once arbitration has been
compelled, in whole or in part, a stay of proceedings is mandatory if the
issues in the arbitration and the pending action overlap. (C.C.P. § 1281.4 (if
a court “has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in
an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies.”)) 
 
“The purpose of the
statutory stay [under section 1281.4] is to protect the jurisdiction of the
arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration is resolved. In the
absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in the trial court
disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them ineffective.” (Federal
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1374-1375 (citations
omitted).) 
 
As the Court grants the
motion to compel arbitration in its entirety, the Court also grants the motion
to stay the proceedings pending arbitration. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Nissan-Infiniti LT
LLC and Nissan Motor Acceptance Company, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for hearing on August 9, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
 
THE STAY OF PROCEEDINGS IS GRANTED. 
 
A STATUS CONFERENCE RE: ARBITRATION OR DISMISSAL
(SETTLEMENT) IS SET FOR AUGUST 13, 2025 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, NISSAN TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 