 Case Number:  24NNCV01901    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 13,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION & MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01901

 



MP:  


Bellefontaine Health Center, Abraham
  Bak and Menachem Gastwirth (Defendants)




RP:  


Weslie Hofland (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at 
(818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Weslie Hofland
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Bellefontaine Health Center
(Bellefontaine), Abraham Bak (Bak) and Menachem Gastwirth (Gastwirth) (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he was injured as the result of negligence
and elder abuse due to the Defendants. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that he
was injured in two separate falls at Defendants’ independent care facility.  Plaintiff argues that the injury was the
result of Defendants’ failure to observe fall risk protocol, among other
things. Bak and Menachem are alleged to be the owners and operators of Bellefontaine.

 
Before the Court is Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration. Defendants argue that Plaintiff is bound to
arbitrate his claims against them because he signed an arbitration agreement on
April 24, 2024 (Defendants’ Exhibit A). Plaintiff opposes the motion to compel
and Defendants reply. 
 
Also before the Court
is a motion by Plaintiff for trial preference based on his age and health
conditions. Defendants oppose this motion and Plaintiff replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate
a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the controversy
exists.” A party seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove,
by a preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
General 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff does not
dispute the existence of an arbitration agreement, but opposes this motion for
three reasons: 1) that Plaintiff lacked the mental capacity to contract at the
time he signed the agreement, 2) that Plaintiff’s electronic signature was not
appropriately authenticated, and 3) that Plaintiff cannot afford arbitration.
The Court will address each of the grounds in turn beginning with Plaintiff’s
capacity. 
 
Legal Standard for Determining Capacity 
 
“‘A judicial determination that a person is
totally without understanding, or is of unsound mind, or suffers from one or
more mental deficits so substantial that, under the circumstances, the person
should be deemed to lack the legal capacity to perform a specific
act, should be based on evidence of a deficit in one or more of the person's
mental functions ….’ (Prob. Code, § 810(c).)” (Algo-Heyres v. Oxnard Manor
LP (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1064, 1070.)
 
“Probate Code section 811 requires that
incapacity to contract be supported by evidence of a deficit in at least one of
four areas: alertness and attention, information processing, thought processes,
and ability to modulate mood and affect. The deficit must ‘significantly impair
the person's ability to understand and appreciate the consequences of his or
her actions with regard to the type of act or decision in question.’” (Id.
[citations omitted].)
 
“The capacity to make a decision
requires the person have the ability to communicate the decision verbally or by
other means, and to understand and appreciate the rights and responsibilities
affected by the decision, the probable consequences, and the ‘significant
risks, benefits, and reasonable alternatives involved in the decision.’” (Id.
[citations omitted].)
 
Evidence
of Incapacity 
 
Plaintiff alleges that he
suffered two falls prior to his admission to the Defendants’ facility.
Plaintiff alleges he fell on April 7, 2024 and was hospitalized thereafter.
(Compl. ¶ 24.) Plaintiff also alleges that he fell on April 22, 2024, and
thereafter received treatment including staples to the back of his head.
(Compl. ¶ 24.) The fall which is the subject of this lawsuit is alleged to have
occurred on April 25, 2024 at Defendants’ facility.  (Compl. ¶ 30.) Another fall is alleged
to have occurred on May 4, 2024, also at Defendants’ facility. (Compl.
¶ 31.) 
 
As evidence of Plaintiff’s
inability to contract, he offers several records. The Court notes that a good
deal of these records occur after Plaintiff’s April 25, 2024 fall and struck
his head. Given that Plaintiff is tasked with demonstrating he lacked capacity
to contract at the time the contract was entered, medical documentation
after the April 25, 2024 fall is less persuasive.
 
As concerns records prior
to the April 25 fall, Plaintiff submits his April 22, 2024 admission record to
Defendants’ facility. (Garcia Decl. Exh. 2.) This record shows that Plaintiff
suffered from a traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage without loss of
consciousness. (Id.) It also shows that Plaintiff was diagnosed with “mild
cognitive impairment of uncertain or unknown etymology.” (Id.)   In an April 30, 2024 page from the Initial
History and Physical, Plaintiff is noted as having “mild dementia,” which
typically does not appear in a short period and likely existed at the time the
agreement was signed.
 
Plaintiff also submits an
excerpt from Defendants’ care plan. This excerpt is dated April 22, 2024 and appears
to be part of the intake procedure. (Garcia Decl. Exh. 3.) This excerpt notes
Plaintiff as being a risk to wander, stating that he was going through his
suitcase as if he had somewhere to be. (Id.) 
 
The remainder of
Plaintiff’s evidence of his incapacity is dated after the April 25 fall.
Plaintiff first submits an “Initial History and Physical” which is dated April
30, 2024 and presumably was prepared in his hospitalization after the April 25
fall. (Garcia Decl. Exh. 1.) This record indicates, via checkbox, that
Plaintiff was assessed to not have the capacity to understand or make
decisions. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff also submits an
excerpt from Defendants’ care plan dated May 22, 2024. (Garcia Decl. Exh. 4.)
This excerpt documents that Plaintiff was “unaware of safety needs” and
“wandering”. (Id.) The Court notes this entry also comes after the
alleged May 4, 2024 fall. 
 
Plaintiff submits a Social
Services Admission Assessment dated April 26, 2024. (Garcia Decl. Exh. 5.) This
assessment indicates, via checkbox, that Plaintiff always required the
assistance of others when reading instructions pamphlets or other written materials
from his doctors. (Id.) It is also indicated via checkbox that Plaintiff
was only able to express concrete needs, understand spoken communication, and
able to follow simple commands. (Id.) This document indicates that
Plaintiff has a durable power of attorney for both healthcare and financial
means but is silent as to any details. (Id.) No documents evidencing
this power of attorney, or who holds it, are attached. 
 
While Plaintiff does submit
the declaration of Shahab Attarchi M.D. in support of this opposition, nothing
in the declaration attests to Plaintiff’s mental capacity at the time of
entering the arbitration agreement. (Garcia Decl. Exh. 6.)  Furthermore, Plaintiff’s family advised that
Plaintiff will sign his own admission paperwork and never sought a conservator
for him, possibly because they had a power of attorney but did not exercise
it.  The Garcia declaration likely was
intended to be utilized for the purpose of obtaining trial preference, rather
than showing Plaintiff’s mental incapacity. 
 
In contrast to Plaintiff’s
submissions, Defendant submits the declaration of its Admissions Director
Angelica Galvan (Galvan). Galvan states that she provided Plaintiff with the
agreement, and he signed it in her presence. (Galvan Decl. ¶ 2.) Galvan
further states that she felt the medication Plaintiff was on when he was
admitted would have impaired his ability to sign, and so she waited several
days after his admission to present him with the agreement. (Id.) Galvan
also states that she spoke to Plaintiff’s daughter prior to presenting the
agreement and that Plaintiff’s daughter informed her Plaintiff would sign his
own documentation. (Id.) Galvan states that prior to presenting the
agreement she reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records and found no record
indicating he lacked capacity. (Id.) 
 
Discussion

 
In considering the totality
of the evidence, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has provided sufficient
evidence to rebut the presumption of his capacity to contract. None of the
records predating Plaintiff’s fall in Defendants’ facility indicate anything
more than minor difficulty in understanding. The admissions records noted that
Plaintiff had mild cognitive impairment, which does not equate to a lack of
capacity to understand his contractual rights. Further, Plaintiff being prone
to wander does not suggest a significant impairment of his ability to
understand the consequences of his action. 
 
As concerns the post-fall
evidence, the Court finds this insufficient to demonstrate a significant
impairment. None of the post-fall evidence includes detail regarding
Plaintiff’s supposed mental incapacity. Plaintiff’s capacity to understand is
presented via checkbox in the April 30 “Initial history and Physical”, with no
explanation as to why a lack of capacity was determined. Further, the Social
Services Admission form only demonstrates Plaintiff’s own belief that he lacked
capacity. Nothing in the Social Services Admission indicates that an evaluation
of capacity, other than Plaintiff’s own, was ever conducted. 
 
As concerns the existence
of a power of attorney (POA), the Court has already noted that no evidence of
this is attached to Plaintiff’s opposition. If it is Plaintiff’s position that
Defendants should have contracted with the holder of Plaintiff’s POA, they have
not provided the evidence to support this claim. Plaintiff’s opposition is
silent as to why Plaintiff’s daughter indicated that Plaintiff could review and
sign the paperwork. 
 
Lastly, the May 22 care
plan excerpts only speak to Plaintiff’s tendency to wander. There is no
explanation as to how Plaintiff is “unaware of his safety needs” and, even if
there were, it is not clear that such an evaluation results in his incapacity
to contract. Further, there is doubt cast on this evidence by virtue of it
being dated after the two falls in Defendants’ facility. 
 
In short, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s evidence insufficient to demonstrate that his capacity to contract
was significantly impaired when he agreed to arbitrate his claims. Plaintiff
simply has not presented a medical diagnosis indicating that he suffered from a
condition which significantly impaired his cognitive abilities.
 
As such, Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Electronic
Signature 
 
The Court briefly addresses
Plaintiff’s argument that the motion to compel should be denied based on
Defendants’ failure to authenticate the electronic signature on the arbitration
agreement. The Court finds this argument has been sufficiently addressed by the
declaration of Galvan, wherein she specifically states that Plaintiff signed
the agreement in her presence. 
 
Arbitration
Fees 
 
Plaintiff also opposes
arbitration on grounds of his inability to afford the arbitral process.
Plaintiff requests the Court find that Defendant be required to pay for
Plaintiff’s portion of the arbitration fees upon showing of his indigent
status. 
 
Upon determination by a
trial court that a plaintiff lacks the financial resources to share the cost of
arbitration, the trial court may order the defending party to pay plaintiff’s
share or waive the right to arbitrate. (Roldan v. Callahan & Blaine (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 87, 96.) “Where a party to a contract with an arbitration
provision opposes a motion to compel arbitration on the ground of inability to
pay the costs, the moving party can ask leave to conduct limited discovery
directed only to the opponent's financial circumstances.” (Hang v. RG Legacy
I, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1243, 1256 [citation omitted].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff submits the
declaration of his daughter Natalie Hofland (Natalie). Natalie states that the
only bank account Plaintiff maintains is a joint checking account in both of
their names. (Natalie Decl. ¶ 5.) As of May 31, 2024, the balance on this
account was $2,743.50. (Natalie Decl. Exh. 2.) As of June 30, 2024, the balance
was $183.25 (Natalie Decl. Exh. 1.) 
Natalie states that Plaintiff’s only source of income is Social Security
in the amount of $2,249.10 a month. (Natalie Decl.¶ 4.) Natalie attests that
Plaintiff currently pays $8,070.00 per month in rent at a separate care
facility. (Natalie Decl. ¶ 6.) Natalie states that Plaintiff’s income no
longer covers his basic needs. Lastly, Natalie states that Plaintiff has no
real property and no assets or investments. (Natalie Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)  
 
Plaintiff also submits the
declaration of his counsel Stephen Garcia (Garcia). Garcia states that in his
firm’s experience, an arbitration of this kind typically would cost at least
$5,000 per day and last at least seven days. (Garcia Decl. ¶ 4.) Garcia
also attaches arbitration billing statements from previous clients in an elder
abuse case totaling $37,750, $42,950.00, $98,112.50, $23,060.00, and
$98,200.00. (Garcia Decl. Exhs. 8-12.) 
 
The Court disagrees with
Defendants’ contention that Plaintiff is inaccurately representing his
financial position. Defendant argues that Plaintiff provides no explanation for
his transfers of $1,400 per month to his daughter, as exhibited in the Zelle
transfers documented in the two bank statements provided. The Court does not
find the failure to explain these transfers negates Plaintiff’s showing that
his current income and bank account balance would not allow him to afford the
arbitration process. Further, the Court finds Defendants’ argument that
Plaintiff could have transferred large sums of money out of this account to
appear indigent is without merit. Defendants have presented no basis to believe
that such a transfer occurred. Plaintiffs’ daughter has testified under penalty
of perjury that Plaintiff maintains no major assets and lives purely off his
social security check. Defendant has provided no title search or any other
publicly available documentation which would refute these statements. 
 
In short, the Court finds
Plaintiff has shown inability to pay for the arbitral process such that
Defendant must either pay Plaintiff’s share of the arbitration costs or waive
the right to arbitration. 
 
Motion
for Trial Preference 
 
In light
of the Court granting the motion to compel arbitration, Plaintiff’s motion for
trial preference is MOOT; however, the Court would have been inclined to grant
the preference. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Bellefontaine Health
Center, Abraham Bak, & Menachem Gastwirth’s Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for hearing on August 9, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS ARE ORDERED TO BEAR THE PORTION OF
ARBITRATION COSTS INCURRED BY PLAINTIFF OR DECLARE THEIR RIGHT TO ARBITRATE
WAIVE. 
 
THE CASE IS STAYED FOR ARBITRATION.
 
THE MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE IS MOOT. 
 
THE COURT SETS A STATUS CONFERENCE RE:
ARBITRATION FOR 
JANUARY 15, 2025 AT 9:00 A.M.  
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, BELLEFONTAINE TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 