  Case Number:  19STCV28303    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Paul Van Kleef,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV28303




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Clean Concept, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 14, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena
Moving Party: Plaintiff Paul Van Kleef
Responding Party: Third Party Beitchman & Kekian,
PC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
THE PARTIES’ REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply.
 
BACKGROUND 
  
On September 17, 2019, Plaintiff Paul
Van Kleef filed the operative first amended complaint against
Defendants Clean Concept, LLC, the Estate of Max Azria,
Yasmine Hanane, Robert McFarlane, and Lubov Azria,
asserting twenty causes of action for issues relating to the Plaintiff and
Defendants’ business dealings.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
Plaintiff moves to enforce the subpoena
served on third-party Beitchman & Zekian, PC on August 9, 2023. The
subpoena seeks documents relating to Beitchman’s legal representation of Clean
Concept and Lubov Azria. 
Beitchman asserts that all responsive,
non-privileged documents have been served. Beitchman represents that the
documents that it has withheld are either attorney work-product, privileged
communications about non-Clean Concept entities or confidential corporate
documents provided by non-Clean Concept entities.
Plaintiff argues Beitchman must produce
work-product because CCP § 2018.080 overrides
the work-product privilege “in an action between an attorney and a client or a
former client of the attorney.” This instant action, however, is not between
Plaintiff and Beitchman. Beitchman is a third party. There is no waiver of
work-product in this action. 
The
Court also finds there is no waiver for documents related to non-Clean Concept
entities. Beitchman owes independent duties to these entities; if Plaintiff
seeks documents from these entities, Plaintiff may request them from those
entities. The Court will not require Beitchman to potentially violate its ethical
duties. 
Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED. The Court declines to award sanctions to either party.
 
 