 Case Number:  23STCV20400    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Amelia Joaquim Rowell,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV20400




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
National University, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 14, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendants National University,
Melissa Diaz, Alan Condington, Sharlene Tracana, Alejandra Rojas and Julia
Harvey
Responding Party: Plaintiff Amelia Joaquim Rowell
 
T/R:     THE COURT ORDERS AN EVIDENTIARY HEARING
ON THE ISSUE OF ASSENT TO THE ARBITRATION AGREEMENT ON JANUARY 19, 2024 AT
9:00. THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO THAT DATE.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff sued
Defendants, asserting eleven causes of action for FEHA violations, wrongful
termination, and retaliation.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendants moves to compel arbitration
based on the Mutual and Voluntary Agreement to Arbitrate
Claims executed by Plaintiff on March
7, 2022. (Decl. Oshiro, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, ““The
University and its brands, concepts, or affiliates (collectively and separately,
University) and I voluntarily enter into this Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate
Claims (Agreement). Except as stated herein, the University and I agree to use
binding arbitration as the means to resolve all disputes that may arise out of
or relate to my application for employment or employment with the University,
including termination of employment.” (Id.) Defendant provides the declaration of HR manager, Vanessa
Oshiro, who states Plaintiff executed the agreement via Adobe Sign with a
unique link and password.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff disputes that
she executed the agreement, declaring that she “never
received, saw, consented to, nor signed an arbitration agreement” during her
employment. (Decl. Rowell 3.)
Plaintiff also asserts that the agreement should not be enforced because it is
unconscionable and illegal.               
 
Defendant contends that it can authenticate Plaintiff’s signature on the
agreement. As there is a factual dispute concerning whether Plaintiff signed the
arbitration agreement, the Court will set an evidentiary hearing on the issue
of assent to the agreement. 
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
1. Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract. Defendants
assert it is not an adhesion contract because it was not presented as a
condition of employment. Regarding procedural unconscionability, the California
Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
The Court finds a very low degree of
procedural unconscionability exists here as there is unequal bargaining power.
This low degree of procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration
agreement unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, the degree of
substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it subjects Plaintiff to unusual fees,
fails to provide adequate discovery, and contains jury and class action
waivers. These do not render the agreement substantively unconscionable. The
agreement does not require Plaintiff pay unusual fees nor does it restrict
discovery. The jury and class action waivers do not affect Plaintiff’s claims
or make the agreement unfairly one-sided. Assuming Plaintiff assented to the
agreement, it is not unconscionable.
2. Illegality
Plaintiff argues the agreement should not be
enforced because it contains a provision extending the deadlines to pay
arbitration fees provided in CCP § 1281.97. This argument fails because subsection
(a)(2) allows parties to agree to alternative deadlines.


 