  Case Number:  19STCV20803    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ELVA ZALDIVAR, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
STEVE
   LEE, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV20803
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   26, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 14, 2019, plaintiffs Elva
Zaldivar, Stephanie Zaldivar, and Marina Zaldivar (collectively, “Plaintiffs”),
individually and as successor in interest to Jose Zaldivar (“Zaldivar”), filed
this wrongful death action against defendants Steve Lee and Tracy Lee for
negligence (under Labor Code section 3706) and premises liability.  
On December 6, 2021, Plaintiffs filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
Plaintiffs substituted Sean Lee (“Defendant”) for Doe 3 on December 7,
2021. 
This action arises from the death of
Zaldivar while performing improvements at a frozen desserts factory owned by
non-party Sweety Novelty, Inc. (“Sweety”) on March 4, 2018.  The factory sits on property that Steve Lee
and Tracy Lee own and lease to Sweety. 
On May 24, 2022, the Honorable Colin
Leis granted Steve Lee and Tracy Lee’s motion for summary adjudication as to
the first cause of action for negligence under Labor Code section 3706 and
denied their motion for summary judgment and summary adjudication as to the
second and third causes of action.  Their
renewed motion for summary judgment/adjudication is scheduled for hearing on
December 5, 2023. 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this
motion, styled as a motion to compel further discovery responses and document
production with respect to their Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
propounded on Defendant.  In the notice
of motion, Plaintiffs state they move for an order compelling Defendant to
provide further responses to their Requests for Production Nos. 8, 11, 12, and
13, as well as the production of documents. 
Plaintiffs specify that their request for documents includes
“[Defendant’s] cellular phone(s) and any electronically stored information
(ESI) including electronic data backup storage (such as an iCloud account) of
the aforementioned cell phone for forensic examination and extraction/download
by third-party forensic examiner ArcherHall Digitial Forensics.”  
Defendant filed an opposition brief on
September 12, 2023. 
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief on
September 18, 2023. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant, along
with Steve Lee and Tracy Lee, operate and own Sweety, and Zaldivar died while
working on property improvements for an upcoming Safe Quality Food (“SQF”)
inspection. (Memo., p. 1.)  Zaldivar was
delegated to work on a ceiling project that required him to be hoisted in a
defective cage/basket while it was on a forklift and that he fell and suffered
fatal injuries to his head.  Plaintiffs
further allege that Defendant, Sweety’s General Manager, retained an unlicensed
contractor, John Woods (“Woods”), and authorized Woods to hire workers.  Defendant denies that he was involved with
the project that led to Zaldivar’s death. 

The discovery requests at issue in this
motion seek text messages between Defendant and several non-party individuals,
including Woods, Stacey Lee, Patty Lee, and Gloria Knowles, from January 1, 2017,
to December 31, 2018: 
-     
John
Woods: According to Defendant’s deposition testimony, Woods was an independent
contractor who worked for Sweety and would perform general maintenance services
on its utilities and equipment; Woods also testified that Defendant was his
supervisor from 2015/2016 to the present. 
Defendant further testified that he discussed changes and improvements
that would need to be made to the Sweety facility located on the property in
order to obtain certain certifications, including repair to the ceiling.  Woods, in turn, hired Zaldivar. 
-     
Stacey
Lee: In March 2018, Stacey Lee was head of the legal department of Jessie
Lord’s Bakery. 
-     
Patty
Lee: In March 2018, Patty Lee was the sales manager of Sweety and had been
employed by Sweety since 2005.  She
testified at her deposition that she did not have any discussions with
Defendant regarding Woods’ work at Sweety. 
-     
Gloria
Knowles: Gloria Knowles identified Defendant as her boss and the person in
charge of managing Sweety. She stated that she had discussions with Defendant
about handling the workers’ compensation claim for Zaldivar and had contacted
OSHA.  Defendant instructed her to assist
in the investigation of Zaldivar’s death.
Defendant initially served
objection-only responses on January 27, 2023, and provided supplemental
responses on February 10, 2023; Defendant stated he was unable to comply
because the requested documents “do not exist.” On May 30, 2023, Defendant
served additional supplemental responses and produced screenshots of text
messages between him and Woods from March 18, 2017, to December 26, 2018.  Defendant asserted that within the relevant
time period, he did not exchange any text messages with Stacey Lee.  Defendant also produced some screenshots of
text messages between him and both Patty Lee and Gloria Knowles.  Unsatisfied with this production, on June 13
and June 28, 2023, Plaintiffs suggested that a third-party vendor extract text
messages from a specific date range pursuant to specific search terms and
recipients, and provided a proposal identifying the investigator and the
protocol that would be followed. Defendant did not agree to a forensic
extraction.  
          Thus,
Plaintiffs move for an order compelling Defendant to produce his cell phones so
that they can determine if Defendant is withholding text messages.  The requests for production sought
“DOCUMENTS” which is defined as “(1) any and all ‘writings’ as defined in
Evidence Code § 250; (2) all written, printed, typed, recorded, or graphic
matter or [sic] any type or description, including, but not limited to,
computer disks, CD-ROMS, CD-Rs, CD-RWs, writings, notes, drawings, graphs,
charts, medical records of any nature, photographs, phonographic records or
tapes, videotapes, computer records, cards, and tapes, and other data
compilations from which information can be obtained, translated if necessary
through detection devices into reasonable usable form, or tangible things, from
which information can be obtained, and all non-identical copies, versions,
amendments, modifications, drafts therefore; (3) any and all ESI
[electronically stored information]of ANY DOCUMENT sought within the request.”  (Motion, Ex. A, pp.1-2.)
          Plaintiffs
take issue with Defendant’s production and contend that it is deficient because
there are significant gaps of time between the messages and only a limited
number of text messages was produced.  Plaintiffs
highlight the fact that Woods and Lee communicated via text message about
Sweety at least every three to six days from January to February, but the last
message sent before Zaldivar’s incident (which occurred on March 4, 2018) was
sent on February 26, 2018.  (Motion, p.
9.)  Text messages between Defendant and
Woods did not resume until March 15, 2018, 10 days after Zaldivar was injured;
Defendant and Woods would communicate via text message at least every 4 days throughout
March and April 2018.  
Similarly, Plaintiffs point out that
Gloria Knowles and Defendant communicated by text message between April 13 to
April 25, 2018, but not at any point between April 25, 2018, to December 31,
2018, which is a period of 8 months.  Plaintiffs
ascribe malicious motives and state: “It is difficult to understand why Gloria
Knowles and Sean Lee would have restricted their use of text messages to such a
narrow period of time when Knowles testified that Sean Lee was her boss, that
she informed him of the subject OSHA investigation, that he instructed her to
assist with the aforementioned investigation, that she handled the workers’
compensation claim related to Decedent, and that she was involved in training
Sweety employees at the Sweety Facility that Sean Lee managed and operated.”  
In addition, Plaintiffs note that Patty
Lee and Defendant did not exchange any text messages between November 23, 2017,
and March 12, 2018, and the produced messages only reference a single check to
Woods over a period of 2 years.  Plaintiffs
state that the discovery of additional payments by Patty Lee to Woods would
uncover additional, undisclosed work by Woods at the Sweety facility, which
would be relevant to how much knowledge Defendant had about Woods’ practices
and standards and whether they were negligent prior to Zaldivar’s incident. 
In opposition, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ motion for a forensic examination is premature because no
inspection demand has been served for his cell phone.  The Court agrees.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030
requires a party to specify the designate the documents, tangible things, or
electronically stored information to be inspected, copied, tested, or sampled;
a party is also required to specify the inspection, copying, testing, sampling,
or other activity being demanded and the manner in which that activity will be
performed.  Extracting data from a cell
phone and “electronic data backup storage” does not appear in Plaintiffs’
requests for production.  Although the
Code of Civil Procedure allows a party to compel, prevent, or limit the
production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling or electronically stored
information to the same extent as physical documents or tangible things,
Plaintiffs’ requests for production identify “all DOCUMENTS that refer or
relate to any and all text messages” between Defendant and specific
individuals.  Plaintiffs’ definition of
“DOCUMENT” is impressively broad, but even a generous interpretation of their
definition does not include a forensic examination of a cell phone.  
The Court notes that defense counsel,
Jacquelene A. Robinson (Marcott), did not describe any method to ensure that
their client had produced all responsive documents, nor does Defendant submit a
declaration describing his efforts to produce all responsive documents.  Instead, Ms. Marcott’s declaration
essentially speculates that the production is complete by stating “on
information and belief” that the production reflects all of the responsive
communications.  (Robinson Decl., ¶
2.)  Therefore, even though the Court
denies the motion for an order allowing a forensic examination at this time,
the  Court notes that its ruling on this
particular motion does not preclude Plaintiffs from serving a formal inspection
demand for Defendant’s cell phone (or cell phones) in the future.  
Furthermore, even though the Court will
not permit Plaintiffs to undertake a forensic examination of Defendant’s cell
phone (or cell phones) at this time, the Court acknowledges Plaintiffs’
frustration with the possibility that there may exist text messages which have
not yet been produced.  This frustration
is caused, in part, by Defendant’s incomplete supplemental responses.  Defendant’s responses are deficient because
he does not specify whether his compliance is “either in whole or in part” as
required by Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220. 
If the statement of compliance was intended to only show compliance “in
part”, Defendant fails to justify any of the objections on which he
stands.  
For example, the Court queries whether
call logs for the time period of January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018, have
been produced because these logs would reflect any history of text messages
between Defendant and other individuals. 
If they have not been produced, they should be produced because they are
responsive to the requests for production at issue; any privilege issues can be
addressed with the appropriate redactions and a privilege log.  Defendant did not object to Request for
Production Nos. 8, 11, 12, or 13 on the grounds that they invaded his privacy
or the privacy of third parties and those objections have been waived.   
Ultimately, Plaintiffs are entitled to
a sworn statement from Defendant stating that he has produced all existing
documents which are responsive to each request for production or to specify the
basis for withholding any documents or information within documents.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED
with respect to their request for further responses to Request for Production
Nos. 8, 12, and 13.  
III.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED in part and
Defendant is ordered to provide further verified, Code-compliant supplemental
responses to Request for Production Nos. 8, 12, and 13 within 10 days of the
date of this order. 
Dated this 26th day of September,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 