This is an unlawful detainer matter.  On February 5, 2024, the Court entered a default judgment in the amount of $33,162.81 against Defendant Samantha Clark.Defendant Clark, a pro per litigant, now seeks to set aside her default and default judgment under Code Civ. Proc. §§ 473(b)-(d), 473.5.  Clark contends that “[t]he Proof of Service filed by Plaintiff indicates that she was served substitutive leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with a John Doe his description could match anyone, but it sure does not [match] me. I do not live there, I was there temporarily and nobody has tendered any copy of summons and/or complaint, the description further continues indicating is a male in 30's age, his height about 6'0 and his weight about 200 lbs., Dark Hair and Dark Eyes, with facial hair such a beard, again that could definitely mean anyone in the street.” Code Civ. Proc. § 473(d) allows a court to set aside a void judgment, such as a judgment that was entered after there was improper service of the summons and complaint. Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5(a) provides that “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”  This section contemplates relief for when service was proper, but for some reason, the defendant did not have notice in time to defend the suit.  A defendant seeking relief under Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5 must show that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend was not caused by inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5(b); Tunis v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077-1078; Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 180.)Plaintiff notes that (1) Clark was served by substituted service at an address that was associated with Clark on WestLaw; (2) Clark does not affirmatively state whether she knows the doe male; (3) Clark, a pro per litigant, has not revealed her addresses as she has put the address of a law firm that may have assisted her on her briefing; (4) Clark acknowledges receiving a declaration in support of the default judgment, but does not explain how she received this; and (5) Clark was ultimately served with the default judgment by mail at the same address of the substituted service of the summons.   Both Code Civ. Proc. §§ 473(b) and 473.5(b) require that a proposed responsive pleading be attached to the Motion.  No such pleading has been provided, such that relief cannot be granted under these sections.With respect to Code Civ. Proc. § 473(d), the Court does not find Clark’s testimony that she did not reside at the subject premises to be credible.  This is because she has not presented any evidence of where she actually resided at the time of service.  Thus, the Motion is denied.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.