This is an employment action.  Plaintiff Gena Persons seeks to compel further responses from Defendant City of Pasadena as to her requests for production, set four, nos. 107-110.The requests at issue seek documents from the employment personnel file of Commander Kelly Evans.  Plaintiff alleges that she had PTSD and that Evans, her supervisor, “who had it out for plaintiff because she had complained about him, did not care. When plaintiff told him she needed to take a disability leave for the PTSD, he gave her workers compensation forms. Plaintiff filled out the forms and turned them back into Commander Evans that same day, However, Evans refused to submit the workers compensation papers, knowing that plaintiff would not get paid or get the medical attention she needed. Plaintiff was finally able to have the City of Pasadena contact him, however, by that time it was too late and the claim had been denied.”  (SAC ¶  65.)A Pitchess motion is required when “discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code [(concerning records of investigations of public complaints against peace officers)] or information from those records.”  (Evid. Code § 1043(a).)Evidence Code § 1043(b) states that a Pitchess motion must include: (1) identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard; (2) a description of the type of records or information sought; and (3) affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information from the records.Here, Plaintiff did not file a Pitchess motion specifically; however, labels aside, the Court can still determine whether the application establishes good cause.The showing of good cause is “a relatively low threshold for discovery.”  (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 83.)  “[A] showing of good cause requires a defendant seeking Pitchess discovery to establish not only a logical link between the defense proposed and the pending charge, but also to articulate how the discovery being sought would support such a defense or how it would impeach the officer’s version of events.”  (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1021.)  “The information sought must, however, be ‘requested with adequate specificity to preclude the possibility that defendant is engaging in a ‘fishing expedition.’ ”  (Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 83, 85 (quoting Pitchess, supra, 11 Cal.3d at p. 538.)Here, good cause has not been shown for the subject discovery.  Plaintiff only states the following in her moving papers: “Plaintiff was a high-ranking employee – police administrator in charge of the forensic unit. The circumstances leading to her termination were complex given that there were four decisions makers involved in the decision to terminate Plaintiff. More importantly, Defendant City of Pasadena has asserted twenty-three affirmative defenses alone.”  This alone is an insufficient explanation.  Therefore, the Motion is denied. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.