 Case Number:  23BBCV02536    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
amy
  ablakat,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
general
  motors, llc, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV02536
 
  Hearing Date:  April 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
  person most qualified with production of documents
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff Amy Ablakat
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint for restitution and damages against Defendant
General Motors, LLC (“GM”) for violation of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act.  Plaintiff alleges that on March 4,
2021, she purchased a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt and that the vehicle constitutes a
“new” vehicle under the Act.  (Compl.,
¶¶4-5.)  Plaintiff alleges that she is a
“lessee” of consumer goods and GM is a “manufacturer” who offered an express
warranty to Plaintiff under the Act.  (Id.,
¶¶6-8.)  Plaintiff alleges that the lease
of the subject vehicle was accompanied by an implied warranty of
merchantability and fitness.  (Id.,
¶9.)  The alleged defects include: a fire risk, electrical, battery,
seatbelt pretensioner, and other defect, which manifested within the applicable
express warranty period.  (Id.,
¶10.)  
She alleges that she took the subject
vehicle to an authorized GM service and repair facility for repair on numerous
occasions, but GM has been unable and/or refused to conform the vehicle to the
applicable warranties, such that GM is obligated to repurchase the vehicle or
make restitution.  (Id.,
¶¶11-13.)  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel the deposition of GM’s person most qualified, with production
of documents, and request for sanctions in the amount of $2,975.  
On March 29, 2024, GM filed an opposition
brief.
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION

            Plaintiff moves to compel the deposition of GM’s PMQ(s)
with production of documents. 
            Plaintiff argues that
she served her Notice of Deposition for GM’s PMQ on November 28, 2023, but GM
served objections on December 22, 2023.  Plaintiff’s
counsel then tried to meet and confer with GM about the deposition and agreed
to withdraw one category of deposition topics and document requests (re other
lemon law buybacks) and agreed to execute an LASC model protective order for
GM’s lemon law policy and procedures, but GM did not respond to the
correspondence.  Plaintiff served the
First Amended Notice of Deposition on December 28, 2023 and GM objected on
January 11, 2024.  Plaintiff again
attempted to meet and confer on January 22, 2024, but GM did not respond.  On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff served the
Second Amended Notice of Deposition and GM objected on February 15, 2024.  
Plaintiff argues that the deposition
notice seeks to depose GM’s PMQ regarding: (1) questions about why GM did not
repurchase or replace the vehicle before the action was filed; (2) questions
about why GM has yet to repurchase the vehicle; (3) questions about the service
and warranty history; (4) questions about communications between GM and anyone
else regarding the vehicle; (5) questions regarding GM’s lemon law policies and
procedures; (6) questions relating to GM’s investigations into whether or not
the vehicle qualified for repurchase before this action was filed; and (7) questions
about the warranty nonconformities in the vehicle.  (Mot. at p.4.)  The requests for production of documents
sought: (1) documents showing the repairs to the vehicle; (2) documents
evidencing correspondence relating to Plaintiff or the vehicle (excluding
attorney-client communications); (3) copies of GM’s California lemon law
policy and procedure manual used by GM’s dealers and customer service
representatives; (4) GM’s customer service file pertaining to Plaintiff or the
vehicle; (5) writings provided to GMs’ customer service representatives
that reflect or relate to rules, policies, and procedures concerning the
issuance of refunds pursuant to the Act; (6) copies of the technical service bulletins that apply to the vehicle;
(7) copies of recall notices that apply to the vehicle; (8) copies of the
documents GM reviewed when it decided pre-litigation not to repurchase the
vehicle pursuant to the lemon law; (9) GM's lemon law policy and procedure
manual; and (10) copies of any photographs or videos GM has of the
vehicle.  (Mot. at pp.4-5.)  
In
opposition, GM argues that it offered to produce a PMQ on a mutually agreeable
date and agreed to produce its PMG on 6 of the 7 deposition categories.  In the separate statement, GM agrees to
produce a PMQ for Category Nos. 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7, but declines to produce a
witness as to Category Nos. 1 and 5.  Differently,
in the opposition papers, GM states that it will produce a PMQ witness(es) for
Category Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7 and produce relevant documents before the
deposition.  (Opp. at p.4.)  
While GM
argues in the opposition brief and separate statement that the motion should be
denied, GM agrees to produce its PMQ on a mutually agreeable date on the
deposition topics and produce relevant documents.  GM also states that it will be filing a
motion for protective order to ensure that the documents produced will be
appropriately protected as they contain confidential and proprietary
information.  
The Court
grants the motion to compel the deposition of GM’s PMQ as to Category Nos. 1-4
and 6-7, and to produce documents.  The
parties are ordered to meet and confer to ascertain a mutually agreeable date
to conduct the PMQ deposition.  Further,
the parties should meet and confer about entering into a protective order to
maintain the confidentiality of GM’s documents that are subject to trade secret
and proprietary concerns.  
Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $2,975. 
At this time, the Court declines to award sanctions.  However, if further discovery issues develop,
the Court will be inclined to impose sanctions at that time.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff Amy Ablakat’s motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified is granted as to
Category Nos. 1-4 and 6-7, and to produce documents.  The
parties are ordered meet and confer to ascertain a date to conduct the PMQ
deposition within 45 days of this hearing or on a mutually agreeable date.
Further, the parties should meet and confer about entering into a protective
order to maintain the confidentiality of GM’s documents that are subject to
trade secret and proprietary concerns.  No
sanctions shall be awarded on this motion. 
Plaintiff
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED:  April 12, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court