 Case Number:  23GDCV02012    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
sameh
  william,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
tesla,
  inc. d/b/a tesla motors, inc., 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23GDCV02012
 
  Hearing Date:  April 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel binding arbitration
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Sameh William (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that Plaintiff purchased a 2019 Tesla Model 3 on September 16, 2019, for which manufacturer/distributor
Defendant Tesla, Inc. d/b/a Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) issued a written
warranty.  Plaintiff alleges the warranty
was not issued by the selling dealership. 
Plaintiff alleges the subject vehicle was delivered with serious defects
and nonconformities to the warranty and that it developed other serious defects
and nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to, electrical,
structural, and engine system defects. 
(Compl., ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges
that he first presented the subject vehicle for repairs in December 2019 and
reported that the calculated amp hour capacity would display a smaller range
than what was observed.  Plaintiff
presented the vehicle in September 2021 with reports that the projected range
would decrease to 210 volts, on August 5, 2022 with reports to tears to the
left side of the steering wheel, on August 11, 2022 with reports that the air
conditioner system emitted an unpleasant odor, and on August 25, 2022 with
reports about an abnormally high consumption rate of the HV battery.  
The complaint, filed September 21, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied
warranty; and (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On November 1, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration. 
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.
On April 5, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With the moving papers, Defendant
submitted a request for judicial notice of the complaint.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
DISCUSSION

            Defendant moves to
compel arbitration against Plaintiff.  
A.   
Terms
of the Arbitration Agreement
Defendant provides
a copy of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement, which includes an agreement to
arbitrate.  (Kim Decl., Ex. 1 [Order
Agreement].)  The Order Agreement was entered
between Plaintiff and Tesla, Inc.  (Order
Agreement, at p.2.)  The Order Agreement
is only 4 pages in length. 
            Defendant
provides the declaration of Raymond Kim, Manager, Business Resolution at
Defendant.  He states that when Plaintiff
ordered the subject vehicle from Defendant on September 13, 2019, Plaintiff
agreed to the terms of the Order Agreement, which included the arbitration
agreement.   (Kim Decl., ¶3.)  Mr. Kim states that Plaintiff placed the
order by clicking a Place Order button on Defendant’s website and that Plaintiff
could not have placed an order without clicking the button or authorizing
someone to do so on his behalf.  (Id.,
¶4.)  Mr. Kim states that customers may
opt out of the arbitration agreement within 30 days of execution of the Order
Agreement but Plaintiff did not do so.  (Id.,
¶5.)  
Page 3
of the Order Agreement includes a box with the bolded term: “Agreement to
Arbitrate.”  It states: 
Agreement to Arbitrate.  Please carefully read this
provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its
affiliates, (together “Tesla”).
If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice
describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. 
If not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising
out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will
not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under
its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this
Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our products.
We will pay all AAA fees for any arbitration, which will be held
in the city or county of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how
to begin an arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org. 
The arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla,
and may not consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The
arbitrator cannot hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on
behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and
Tesla may bring claims against the other only in your or its individual
capacity and not as a plaintiff or class member in any class or representative
action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to
arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy,
then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in
court and any other claims must be arbitrated.
If you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small
claims court. 
You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this
Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA
94539-7970, stating your name, Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to opt
out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate
overrides any different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration
agreement in a lease or finance contract.
(Order Agreement at p.4.)  
            In
the opposition brief, Plaintiff does not raise any arguments regarding the
existence of the arbitration agreement, whether he signed the agreement, or the
scope of the arbitration agreement. 
Rather, he argues that the arbitration provision is unconscionable.  
            As
the parties do not dispute the existence or scope of the arbitration agreement,
the Court will discuss whether the terms of the arbitration agreement are
unconscionable.  
B.    
Unconscionability
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Order
Agreement was a pre-printed consumer sales contract that was presented to
Plaintiff on a “take it or leave it” basis (contract of adhesion), such that
Plaintiff had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate with Defendant about the
terms.  However, the arbitration
agreement expressly allowed Plaintiff 30 days after signing the arbitration
agreement to opt out of the arbitration provision by sending a written letter
to Defendant.  As such, this particular
term was not a contract of adhesion. 
Further, there is no evidence that the Order Agreement or the
arbitration clause were non-negotiable or that Plaintiff made any attempt to negotiate such terms and was
denied.  (See Bolanos v. Khalatian (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1586 [holding that
arbitration agreement was enforceable because the plaintiff’s declaration did
not say that she could not read or understand the agreement and because she did
not offer any evidence that she was forced or tricked into signing the
agreement].) Plaintiff has not provided a declaration that he attempted to ask
questions about or negotiate the Order Agreement or the arbitration agreement
and that he was denied such requests. 
            Plaintiff also argues that the
arbitration agreement did not include a copy of the relevant arbitration
rules.  However, the arbitration
agreement stated that the American Arbitration Association would be the chosen arbitrator
and that rules may be found by calling the AAA office or going on the
www.adr.org website.  The failure to
attach or provide the AAA rules to the arbitration agreement is not, in itself,
a sufficient ground to support a finding of procedural unconscionability.  For example, in Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676,
690, the Court of Appeal concluded: “[T]he failure to attach a copy of the AAA
rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be
no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily
accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet.”
            Thus, there are no indications of
procedural unconscionability.  
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because the clause allows
for a choice of the arbitration forum only for the party “electing” to
arbitrate.  Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has elected the forum and rules for the arbitration, citing to Chavarria
v. Ralphs (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 916 (“Even if it were the case that Ralphs' policy does not guarantee that Ralphs
will always be the party with the final selection, the selection process is not
one designed to produce a true neutral in any individual case.”).  Part of the issue in Chavarria was
that the arbitration selection provision would always produce an arbitrator
proposed by Ralphs and that the provision precluded institutional arbitration
administrators like AAA or JAMS which had established rules and procedures to
select a neutral arbitrator.  Here,
Defendant’s arbitration agreement does not preclude the selection of neutral
arbitrators at qualified institutions like AAA or JAMS.  
            Plaintiff
also argues that the arbitration cost provision is substantively unconscionable
and would impose prohibitive costs on Plaintiff.  However, the arbitration agreement states: “We [Defendant] will pay all AAA
fees for any arbitration, which will be held in the city or county of your
residence.”  (Order Agreement at
p.3.)  As such, it is unclear how the
arbitration cost provision is unconscionable. 

            As there are no indications of
procedural or substantive unconscionability, the motion to compel arbitration
is granted.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  The action shall be stayed pending the
outcome of the arbitration.  The Court
sets a Status Conference re: Status of Arbitration for September 4, 2024 at
8:30 a.m. 
Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED:  April 12, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court