 Case Number:  23BBCV00952    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
nora
  bekerian,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
private
  money lenders, inc., et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00952
 
  Hearing Date:  April 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel arbitration; demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Nora Bekerian (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she is the owner of a single-family home located at 10413 Samoa Avenue,
Tujunga, CA 91042 and the adoptive mother of two children with disabilities.  Plaintiff alleges that she hired Defendant
Mickey Lynn McClinton (“McClinton”) on October 1, 2021, to construct two
accessory dwelling units and legalize an already-built ADU on the
property.  Plaintiff alleges that the
total price of the project was $1,200,000. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant never disclosed that he was an
unlicensed contractor.  Plaintiff alleges that in November
2021, she received news that her mother in Lebanon was gravely ill and McClinton
offered to care for her children while she traveled; Plaintiff alleges that
during this time, she began to develop an emotional attachment to McClinton.  Plaintiff alleges that McClinton took
advantage of her emotional vulnerability and demanded large amounts of money to
pay for permits and materials.  
Plaintiff alleges that on December 9,
2021, McClinton introduced Plaintiff to Defendant Charles Anthony Hasbun
(“Hasbun”), a representative of Defendant Private Money Lenders, Inc. (“PML”)
and notary public Jacqualine Contreras.  She
alleges that on December 19, 2021, Hasbun, McClinton, and Contreras met with
Plaintiff at her home and Plaintiff signed documents pertaining to a $150,000
loan.  On December 28, 2021, Plaintiff
received a wire transfer from PML in the amount of $18,501.64, despite having
signed a loan for $150,000.  Plaintiff
alleges that she made numerous attempts to contact Hasbun and PML starting in
January 2022 to seek more information about the loan, as well as McClinton who
abandoned work on the project in March 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that on April 22, 2023, she obtained the loan
documents from PML’s office and the Escrow Closing Statement showed that
$100,000 of the loan funds were disbursed to “Michael” and $25,000 in funds
were held by PML “for permits,” but Plaintiff alleges she did not authorize
these disbursements.  Plaintiff alleges that
she requested that the $25,000 be disbursed to her since no permits had been
pulled, but PML informed her that the funds were returned to the lender Don
Friday King, M.D.  On August 3, 2023, in
order to avoid foreclosure, Plaintiff made a balloon payment to lender Dr. King
in the amount of $121,056.79.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
August 8, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) conspiracy; (2) conversion;
(3) money had and received; (4) rescission; (5) violation of Welfare &
Institutions Code, § 15610.30; (6) fraud; (7) negligent misrepresentation; (8)
breach of contract; (9) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(10) negligence; (11) concealment; (12) unfair business practices; and (13)
violation of Financial Code, § 17414.  
B.    
Motions
on Calendar
On February 15,
2024, Defendant PML filed a motion for an order compelling arbitration.  On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  On April 5, 2024, PML
filed a reply brief. 
On November 15, 2023, Defendant Charles
Hasbun filed a demurrer to each cause of action nalleged in the FAC.  On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
            PML moves
for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate this matter.          
A.   
Terms
of the Arbitration Agreement: Is there an enforceable agreement to arbitrate?
PML
provides a copy of the December 19, 2021 of the Arbitration Agreement.  (Mot., Ex. A [Arbitration Agreement].)  The Arbitration Agreement is signed by
Plaintiff on December 19, 2021 and PML’s vice president.  The Arbitration Agreement states in relevant
part:
MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE DISPUTES: Borrower
has or will obtain a mortgage loan (the “Loan”) made or arranged by the
undersigned company (the “Company”). Borrower, Company and any lender making
the Loan (collectively, the “Lender”) agree that any Dispute involving the
Loan, including but not limited to claims arising from the origination,
documentation, disclosure, servicing, collection or any other aspect of the
Loan transaction or the coverage or enforceability of this Agreement, shall be
resolved exclusively by binding arbitration under the terms of this Agreement.
This Agreement shall also be binding on the agents, successors and assigns of
the parties and the Loan.
 
“Dispute” shall include,
but not be limited, to:
1. Any claimed wrongdoing, such as misrepresentation,
negligence, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, unconscionability,
fraud in the inducement, rescission, breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing and unfair business practices. 
2. Any claimed violation of state or federal laws,
including, but not limited to consumer credit, truth-in-lending, civil rights,
equal opportunity, real estate settlement, housing discrimination laws, fair
lending acts, licensing, loan regulation and unfair business practices acts.
…
 
ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES:
Arbitration shall be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA”). Arbitration shall be filed at the office of the AAA
nearest to the real property securing the Loan. Reasonable discovery shall be
permitted pursuant to a written discovery plan determined by the
arbitrator(s).  Company shall pay all arbitrator
fees and hearing fees to the extent they exceed what Borrower would have had to
pay if the matter were tried in court.  Each
party shall bear their own attorneys fees, unless a specific claims statute
applies.  The arbitrator(s) shall render
a statement of the reasons for the award. Judgment on the award may be entered
in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
 
WAIVERS:
THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JUDGE
OR JURY, THE RIGHT TO APPEAL, FULL PRETRIAL DISCOVERY AND APPLICATION OF THE
RULES OF EVIDENCE. 
(Arbitration
Agreement at p.1.)  
            The parties do not appear to dispute
that Plaintiff and PML entered into the Arbitration Agreement and that the
scope of the Arbitration Agreement covers the causes of action in the FAC.  In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable and thereby unenforceable.  
B.    
Unconscionability

Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable and, therefore, should not be enforced.  
First, Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion on a pre-printed form
agreement without Plaintiff’s ability to negotiate the terms.  Plaintiff states in her declaration that she
could not and did not negotiate any of the terms of any agreement with PML, she
was not provided a copy of her file despite persistent requests, she was not
given any time to review the documents or have an attorney review them, and
none of the documents provided to her contained an arbitration agreement.  (Bekerian Decl., ¶¶3-7.)  While Plaintiff vaguely states she could not
and did not negotiate the terms of the agreement with PML, she does not state
whether she actually attempted to negotiate the Arbitration Agreement’s
terms and was denied the opportunity to do so. 
(See
Bolanos v. Khalatian (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 1586 [holding that arbitration agreement was enforceable because the
plaintiff’s declaration did not say that she could not read or understand the
agreement and because she did not offer any evidence that she was forced or
tricked into signing the agreement].) 
Further, because “it is generally unreasonable ... to neglect to read a
written agreement before signing it” (Rosenthal
v. Great W. Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,424), the failure
to read an arbitration agreement does not prevent the enforcement of the
agreement, unless the party shows his or her signature was obtained through
fraud or coercion.  (Id at 423; Bolanos
v. Khalatian (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1590.) 
While Plaintiff argues that the loan signing took place at her home and
she was not given adequate time to review the documents, she has not shown that
her signature to enter into the loan agreement and the Arbitration Agreement
were through fraud or coercion.  Thus,
there are little to no indications of procedural unconscionability. 
Next, Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it
is one-sided.  Plaintiff argues that it
contemplates that PML will pay all arbitrator and hearing fees to the extent
they exceed what Plaintiff would have had to pay if the matter were tried in
court, which means she would be on the hook for all arbitration fees.  In reply, PML argues that this provision is
not unconscionable and that the provision clearly means that PML would be
paying for all arbitration and hearing fees since Plaintiff has a fee waiver in
the court-filed action.  (See May 1, 2023
Request to Waive Court Fees Granted.)  The
Court finds little to no indications of substantive unconscionability.  
As such, the Court
does not find the Arbitration Agreement to be unconscionable.  Thus, the Arbitration Agreement is
enforceable.  
C.    
McClinton
CCP §
1281.2 states:
On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:
…
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. …
(CCP § 1281.2(c).)  
Lastly, Plaintiff
argues that McClinton is not bound by the Arbitration Agreement such that there
is a possibility of conflicting rulings in this action.  
In reply, PML
attempts to argue that Plaintiff’s argument fails because McClinton is in
default such that there is nothing to arbitrate with respect to McClinton.  
Based on the
Court’s review of the case, McClinton was served on February 20, 2024 with the
summons and complaint.  (See 2/20/24
Proof of Publication.)  McClinton has not
yet filed an answer or appeared in this action. 
His default has not been entered as he was only recently served.  (However, the Court notes that McClinton’s default
was entered in a LASC Case No. 22BBCV00514 in Bekerian v. McClinton.)  Although McClinton’s default has not been
entered here, he has not yet filed appeared or participated in this
action.  Further, there is no risk of
inconsistent rulings as the matter may proceed to arbitration between PML and Plaintiff,
while the remainder of the case is stayed pending the outcome of the
arbitration.  
The motion to
compel arbitration is granted.  
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Hasbun
demurs to each cause of action alleged in the FAC.  
            In light of the ruling on PML’s
motion to compel arbitration, the Court takes the demurrer off-calendar.  Hasbun may refile the demurrer following the
resolution of the arbitration proceeding. 
           
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER

Defendant Private Money Lenders, Inc.’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
The matter shall be ordered to arbitration between Defendant Private
Money Lenders, Inc. and Plaintiff Nora Bekerian.  The remainder of the action is stayed pending
the resolution of the arbitration. 
Defendant Charles Anthony Hasbun’s
demurrer is taken off-calendar in light of the stay.  
The Court sets a Status Conference re
Arbitration for September 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. 

            Defendant shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
 
DATED:  April 12, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court