 Case Number:  24BBCV00136    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
Vagan sardariani, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
rolan markarian, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  24BBCV00136
 
Hearing
  Date: April 12, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to consolidate actions; motion to expunge lis pendens
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Vigan Sardariani (“Sardariani”) and V&S Complete Auto
Repairs, Inc. (“V&S”) allege that this action involves a 22-year-old lease
relationship between Sardariani and Defendant Roland Markarian
(“Markarian”).  Plaintiffs allege that
Markarian rented the leased premises located at 7139 Foothill Blvd. in Tujunga
on May 1, 2002 subject to the lease agreement. 
Plaintiffs allege that Markarian sued Plaintiffs on May 11, 2022 in
Pasadena Case No. 22PDUD00815, Markarian v. Sardariani.  On June 8, 2016, Markarian, without notice to
Plaintiffs, transferred ownership of the leased property to Defendant RRRM
Holding Company, LLC (“RRRM”). 
Plaintiffs allege that Markarian and RRRM persuaded Plaintiffs’
sublessor, Defendants Ara Ahanjanyan and Arman Artunyan, to breach their
sublease with Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs
allege that on December 29, 2023, RRRM initiated an unlawful detainer action in
Burbank Case No. 23BBCV03087, RRRM Holding Company, LLC v. Sardariani.  Plaintiffs allege that RRRM has made false
representations that it leased property to Sardariani, that rent had increased
(without proper notice), and that RRRM performed all terms an condtions on the
lease when it had not.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed March 14, 2024, alleges causes
of action for: (1) fraud; (2) intentional concealment; (3) negligent
misrepresentation; (4) breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
breach of contract; (6) tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage; (7) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage; (8)
intentional interference with contractual relations; and (9) inducing breach of
contract. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On March 15, 2024, Sardariani filed a motion
to consolidate actions.  On April 2,
2024, Sardariani filed a notice of failure to file an opposition, stating that
no opposition was timely filed or received. 
On April 5, 2024, RRRM filed the declaration of Zakari re: opposition to
the motion to consolidate.  
On March 18, 2024, RRRM filed a motion to
expunge lis pendens.  On March 29, 2024,
Sardariani filed an opposition brief.  On
April 5, 2024, RRRM filed a reply. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
            Sardariani moves to
consolidate this case (24BBCV00136) with the following cases pursuant to CCP §
1048(a): (1) RRRM Holdings Co., LLC v. Vigan Sardariani (LASC Case No.
23BBCV03087); (2) V&S Complete Auto Repairs, Inc. v. Ara Ohanjanyan
(LASC Case No. 23PDUD04099); and (3) RRRM Holding Co., LLC v. V&S
Complete Auto Repairs, Inc. (LASC Case No. 24PDUD00343).  Each of these cases are assigned to
Department B of the Burbank Courthouse.  
CCP §1048(a) provides that the Court may order a joint trial on matters
that “involve[] a common question of law or fact.”  The four matters essentially involve the same parties, the same
attorneys, and the same leased property. 
The actions involve common issues of law and fact as they involve the
identity of the owner of the property and who has the right of possession to
the property.  
In RRRM’s opposition declaration, RRRM argues
that it previously filed an opposition on February 29, 2024 to Plaintiff’s ex
parte application and that it is unclear if Plaintiffs are giving up their
demand for arbitration.  RRRM argues that
the cases should be related, but not be stayed or consolidated. 
The unlawful detainer statutory scheme “is intended and designed to
provide an expeditious remedy for the recovery of possession of real property.
[Citation.] Unlawful detainer actions are, accordingly, of limited scope,
generally dealing only with the issue of right to possession and not other
claims between the parties, even if related to the property. [Citation.]” (Larson
v. City and County of San Francisco (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1297; see
also Martin–Bragg v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385 [“In unlawful
detainer proceedings, ordinarily the only triable issue is the right to
possession of the disputed premises, along with incidental damages resulting
from the unlawful detention. [Citations.]”].)
A consolidation may be
appropriate when an unlawful detainer proceeding and an unlimited action are
simultaneously pending and both raise the same
complex title issues. (Martin–Bragg, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at 385.)  “[T]he trial court has the power to
consolidate an unlawful detainer proceeding with a simultaneously pending
action in which title to the property is
in issue. That is because a successful claim of title by the tenant would
defeat the landlord's right to possession.” (Id. [emphasis added].) 
Therefore, “[w]hen an
unlawful detainer proceeding and an unlimited action concerning title to the
property are simultaneously pending, the trial court in which the unlimited
action is pending may stay the unlawful detainer action
until the issue of title is resolved in the unlimited action, or it may consolidate the actions.”  (Id.
[emphasis added].)  
Here, the Court finds that there are issues
across the four cases regarding title to the property that can be adjudicated
together in an economic and judicious fashion. 
Thus, pursuant to CCP § 1048,
the cases 24BBCV00136, 23BBCV03087,
23PDUD04099, and 24PDUD00343 will be consolidated.  Case No. 23BBCV03087 shall be deemed the lead
case and all future papers are to be filed under that case number.  Trial for the consolidated action is to
remain on April 29, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. in this department.  The Final Status Conference is also set to
remain on April 18, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in this department.
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
A.   
Legal Standard
Under CCP § 405.30, at any time after a notice of pendency of action
has been recorded, any party with an interest in the real property may apply to
the Court to expunge the notice.  A lis
pendens may be expunged either under: (a) CCP § 405.31 if the pleadings do not
contain a real property claim or (b) CCP § 405.32 if the Court finds that the
party claiming the lis pendens has not established by a preponderance of the
evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.  Under CCP § 405.30, the party claiming the
lis pendens has the burden of proof under sections 405.31 and 405.32.  
Accordingly, the plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating that their
pleadings contain a real property claim and that the probable validity of their
real property claim can be established by a preponderance of the evidence.  "Probable validity" exists when
"it is more likely than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment on
the claim."  (CCP § 405.3.) 
B.    
Merits of Motion 
            RRRM moves to expunge
the notice of pendency of action (lis pendens) recorded on February 9, 2024 and
requests $4,310 in attorney’s fees and costs. 
RRRM argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish strict compliance with the
rules related to lis pendens, V&S has no colorable claim to any ownership
interest in the subject premises, Plaintiffs do not have a real property
interest, and Sardariani does not have a likelihood of prevailing in his
action.   
            First,
RRRM argues that Plaintiffs have not complied with the requirement to properly
asserts a lis pendens because they did not file their notice of lis pendens
with the Court or its proof of service.  CCP § 405.22 states:
Except in actions subject to Section
405.6, the claimant shall, prior to recordation of the
notice, cause a copy of the notice to be mailed, by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, to all known addresses of the parties to whom
the real property claim is adverse and to all owners of record of the
real property affected by the real property claim as shown by the latest county
assessment roll. If there is no known address for service on an adverse party
or owner, then as to that party or owner a declaration under penalty of perjury
to that effect may be recorded instead of the proof of
service required above, and the service on that party or owner shall not be
required. Immediately following recordation, a
copy of the notice shall also be filed with the court in which the action is
pending. Service shall also be made immediately and in the same manner
upon each adverse party later joined in the action.
(CCP § 405.22 [emphasis added].) 
RRRM does not argue that there is any issue with service, but
argues that Plaintiffs did not comply with the requirement to file the
notice with the Court.  Indeed,
Plaintiffs have not filed a copy of the notice following recordation.  In opposition, Sardariani argues that there
is no issue with the filing of the notice since RRRM’s motion included a copy
of the notice of lis pendens as an exhibit and so RRRM has essentially helped Sardariani
comply with the code.  However, by
Plaintiffs’ logic, had RRRM not filed a motion, then Plaintiffs’ notice of lis
pendens would have been void as no notice was ever filed or would have been
filed with the Court.  A copy of the lis
pendens still has not been filed by Plaintiffs as a separate document for the
Court’s records.  “Substantial
compliance contemplates that there is at least some compliance with all of the
statutory requirements. [Citation.]”  (Carr v. Rosien (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 845, 855.)  Thus, for
example, had Plaintiffs filed the notice of lis pendens belatedly, there would
have been substantial compliance.  Plaintiffs
have not substantially complied with CCP § 405.22.  
            Second, RRRM argues that Plaintiffs
must show that Markarian intended to sell the subject property to a bona fide
third purchaser to trigger Sardariani’s “right of first refusal.”  The Commercial Lease Agreement for the
subject premises was entered between landlord Markarian and tenant Saradriani
on May 1, 2002.  (FAC, Ex. A.)  The Option to Purchase portion states:
Landlord hereby promises and agrees
that should Landlord decide to sell the rental property, which is the subject
of this agreement, the Tenant shall have the FIRST OPTION to PURCHASE the said
property for the reasonable market value of the property. For the purpose of
this agreement the term “sell” includes the transfer of the ownership of said
property. Landlord promises to give Tenant at least ninety days (90) advance
notice of Landlord’s intention to sell the property. 
(Lease at p.3.)  RRRM argues that it did not sell the property
to another owner but only “moved ownership” to a business entity, which is in
Markarian’s ownership and management, such that there was no sale or change in
ownership.  (Mot. at p.6.)  It also argues that Plaintiffs had written
notice of RRRM’s ownership interest in the subject property in 2017 when RRRM
was added as an additional insured.  In
opposition, Sardariani argues that he has a property interest in the premises
because any intention to transfer ownership triggered a right for Sardariani to
purchase the property.  
            Although
RRRM tries to argue that the movement of ownership from Markarian to RRRM does
not trigger the Option to Purchase portion of the Lease, RRRM essentially
admits that there was some sort of transfer of ownership of the property.  A “transfer of ownership of the property” could
fall within the definition of “sell” in the Option to Purchase provision. But
this language really creates an ambiguity because it does not make any sense
that any possible transfer could trigger the option. It is not meaningful to
exercise an “option” when there is no consideration in the transaction and the
ownership is simply being moved from one form of ownership to another. What
would be the option price?  There are no
mechanisms for establishment of an option price in such a case, and therefore
to the extent that the contract provides for an option price it is fatally
vague. 
RRRM also
argues that Plaintiffs had notice of RRRM’s ownership in the property around
June 4, 2017 when Plaintiffs obtained a Certificate of Liability Insurance
naming V&S as the insured and “Roland Markarian/RRRM Limited Liability
Corp.” as the additional insured. 
(Markarian Decl., Ex. B.)  RRRM
argues that Plaintiff had notice of the transfer and his suspicions should have
been raised at least in 2017, he waived his right to first refusal, and
Plaintiff has waited 6 years to file this lawsuit after the lease expired and
was not renewed.   RRRM argues that
Plaintiff had 3 or 4 years to file this lawsuit within the statute of
limitations period (3 years for fraud/mistake pursuant to CCP § 338(d), slander
of title to real property pursuant to CCP § 338(g), or trespass or injury to
real property pursuant to CCP § 338(b); or 4 years for breach of contract
pursuant to CCP § 337(a)).  Thus, if
Plaintiffs wished to contend that the mere transfer of form of ownership
triggered the option in some way, they did have actual or at least constructive
notice of sufficient facts to assert that claim more than four years before
they did so. RRRM provided the insurance document showing that RRRM was an
additional insured which should have at least raised constructive notice of
RRRM’s ownership or interest in the subject property.  Plaintiffs do not deny receiving the
insurance document in 2017 nor have they shown that RRRM intentionally
concealed facts from Plaintiffs to toll the statute of limitations.  
            Finally,
RRRM argues that Plaintiffs have the burden of establishing that there was a
“sale” to a bona fide third-party purchaser. 
RRRM relies on Campbell v. Alger (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 200, which states:
A right of first refusal
is the “conditional right to acquire ... property, depending on the [owner's]
willingness to sell.” (6 Miller & Starr, Cal. Real Estate (2d ed. 1989) §
18:110, p. 317.) The holder of the right merely has the preference to purchase
the property over other purchasers if the owner of the property “elects to sell
the property.” (Ibid.) The right does not become an option to purchase
until the owner of the property voluntarily decides to sell the property and
receives a bona fide offer to purchase it from a third party. (Id., at
pp. 322-323; Rollins v. Stokes (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 701, 710 [176
Cal.Rptr. 835].) Normally, the right is enforceable against third persons
entering into a contract to buy the property with notice of the holder's right.
(6 Miller & Starr, supra, at p. 318.)
(Campbell v. Alger (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 200, 206–207.)  RRRM argues that there was no transfer of an
interest to a third person because Markarian only shifted ownership of the
premises to his own business entity.  As
noted above, there is something that could be deemed a “transfer of ownership,”
but the contract is ambiguous on whether any shift of ownership triggered the
option and fatally vague in establishing an option price if it does so provide.
The Court finds for the reasons stated above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
have not shown that the complaint asserts a real property claim.  As such, there is substantive merit to
granting RRRM’s motion.  
            As such, the motion to
expunge the lis pendens is granted.  
C.    
Request for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
Under CCP § 405.38, the Court is authorized to award reasonable
attorney fees and costs to the prevailing party on a motion to expunge a lis
pendens.  
RRRM seeks $4,310 in attorney’s fees and costs against Plaintiffs and
their counsel of record.  This accounts
for 6.5 hours to prepare the motion, 1 hour to review the opposition and
prepare a reply, and 1 hour to appear at the hearing at $500/hour, for a total
of $4,250 plus $60 in filing fees. (Zakari Decl., ¶5.)  
Defendant is the prevailing party on this motion.  The Court awards attorney’s fees in the
reasonable amount of $3,000, plus $60 in filing fees.  Plaintiffs and their counsel of record,
jointly and severally, are ordered to pay reasonable attorney’s fees and costs
to Defendant, by and through defense counsel. 

CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Vigan Sardariani’s motion to consolidate the actions is
granted.    Pursuant to CCP § 1048, the cases 24BBCV00136, 23BBCV03087, 23PDUD04099, and 24PDUD00343 will be
consolidated.  Case No. 23BBCV03087 shall
be deemed the lead case and all future papers are to be filed under that
case number.  Trial for the consolidated
action is to remain on April 29, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. in this department.  The Final Status Conference is also set to
remain on April 18, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in this department.  
Defendant RRRM Holding Company LLC’s motion to expunge lis pendens is
granted.  Plaintiffs and their counsel of
record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay reasonable attorney’s fees
and costs in the amount of $3,600 to Defendant, by and through defense
counsel.  
Each party shall give notice of their respective order.   
 
 
DATED: 
April 12, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  