 Case Number:  23BBCV00507    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
california
  general underwriters insurance company, inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
on
  point builders, inc., et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00507
 
  Hearing Date:  April 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for order to discharge and award
  of cost and attorney’s fees and order for deposit; and for dismissal of
  american contractors indemnity company from cross-complaint
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff California General Underwriters
Insurance Company, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on April 11, 2022, at 10855
Hartstock St., North Hollywood, CA 91601, Defendant On Point Builders, Inc.
(“On Point”) and its employees were working within the course and scope of
their employment when they caused Edwina Jo Snow aka Edwina Jo Burton Snow
(“the insured”) to incur monetary damages. 
Plaintiffs alleges that the insured suffered in the amount of
$81,526.84.  Plaintiff alleges that On
Point as principal and Defendant American Contractors Indemnity Company
(“ACIC”) as surety had made, executed, and delivered to the State of California,
a Contractor’s License Bond.  Plaintiff
seeks subrogation of the total loss against Defendants.  
The complaint, filed March 3, 2023, alleges
a single cause of action for subrogation. 
 
B.    
Relevant
Background and Motion on Calendar 
On October 10, 2023, the default of On
Point was entered as to the complaint.  
On October 16, 2023, ACIC filed a
cross-complaint against On Point, Plaintiff, and Las Palmas Silver LLC for: (1)
interpleader; and (2) injunctive relief. 

On February 20, 2024, ACIC filed a motion
for order that: (1) ACIC be discharged from all liability regarding the rights
and obligations of the parties to this action arising out of the issuance by
ACIC of a $15,000 Contractor’s License Bond, bond number 100465673, to which
Cross-Defendants have made claims; (2) ACIC be awarded fees and costs in the
amount of $3,000 from the penal sum of the bond and ACIC shall deposit the
remaining $12,000 with the Clerk of the Court; (3) Cross-Defendants and their
attorneys be restrained from instituting or further prosecuting any proceeding
in any court in California for recovery against the bond; and (4) ACIC be
dismissed from the present action without prejudice.   
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Business
& Profession Code, § 7071.5 state: 
The contractor's bond required by this article shall be executed by an
admitted surety in favor of the State of California, in a form acceptable to
the registrar and filed with the registrar by the licensee or applicant. The
contractor's bond shall be for the benefit of the following:
(a) A homeowner contracting for home improvement upon the homeowner's
personal family residence damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by
the licensee.
(b) A property owner contracting for the construction of a single-family
dwelling who is damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by the
licensee. That property owner shall only recover under this subdivision if the
single-family dwelling is not intended for sale or offered for sale at the time
the damages were incurred.
(c) A person damaged as a result of a willful and deliberate violation of
this chapter by the licensee, or by the fraud of the licensee in the execution
or performance of a construction contract.
(d) An employee of the licensee damaged by the licensee's failure to pay
wages.
(e) A person or entity, including a laborer
described in subdivision (b) of Section 8024 of the Civil Code ….
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7071.5.)  
            Business & Professions Code, §
7071.6 states in relevant part:
(a) The board
shall require as a condition precedent to the issuance, reinstatement,
reactivation, renewal, or continued maintenance of a license, that the applicant
or licensee file or have on file a contractor's bond in the sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000).
(b) Excluding the
claims brought by the beneficiaries specified in subdivision (a) of Section
7071.5, the aggregate liability of a surety on claims brought against a bond
required by this section shall not exceed the sum of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500). The bond proceeds in excess of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500) shall be reserved exclusively for the claims of the
beneficiaries specified in subdivision (a) of Section 7071.5. However, nothing
in this section shall be construed so as to prevent any beneficiary specified
in subdivision (a) of Section 7071.5 from claiming or recovering the full
measure of the bond required by this section.
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7071.6(a)-(b).)  
            CCP § 386(b) states in relevant
part:
(b) Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity
against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more
persons which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability,
may bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate
their several claims.
When
the person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom such
claims are made, or may be made, is a defendant in an action brought upon one
or more of such claims, it may either file a verified cross-complaint in
interpleader, admitting that it has no interest in the money or property
claimed, or in only a portion thereof, and alleging that all or such portion is
demanded by parties to such action, and apply to the court upon notice to such
parties for an order to deliver such money or property or such portion thereof
to such person as the court shall direct; or may bring a separate action
against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several
claims. The action of interpleader may be maintained although the claims have
not a common origin, are not identical but are adverse to and independent of
one another, or the claims are unliquidated and no liability on the part of the
party bringing the action or filing the cross-complaint has arisen. The
applicant or interpleading party may deny liability in whole or in part to any
or all of the claimants. The applicant or interpleading party may join as a
defendant in such action any other party against whom claims are made by one or
more of the claimants or such other party may interplead by cross-complaint;
provided, however, that such claims arise out of the same transaction or
occurrence.
(CCP § 386(b).)  Subsection (f) states: “After any such complaint
or cross-complaint in interpleader has been filed, the court in which it is
filed may enter its order restraining all parties to the action from
instituting or further prosecuting any other proceeding in any court in this
state affecting the rights and obligations as between the parties to the
interpleader until further order of the court.”  
            CCP § 386.5 states: 
Where the only
relief sought against one of the defendants
is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be wrongfully withheld,
such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere stakeholder with no
interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands have
been made upon him for the amount by parties to the action, upon notice to such
parties, apply to the court for an order discharging him from liability and
dismissing him from the action on his depositing with the clerk of the court
the amount in dispute and the court may, in its discretion, make such order.
(CCP
§386.5.) 
CCP § 386.6(a) states: 
A party to an
action who follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert
in his motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance
of his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering
the discharge of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party
his costs and reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has
been deposited with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the
court may make such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney
fees by one or more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper. 
(CCP § 386.6(a).) 

DISCUSSION

            ACIC
moves to be discharged from all liability regarding the $15,000 Contractor’s
License Bond, an award of $3,000 in attorney’s fees and costs such that the
remaining $12,000 shall be deposited with the Clerk of the Court, that ACIC be
dismissed from the action, and the other parties be restrained from instituting
any further action against ACIC for recovery against the bond. 
            In support of the motion, ACIC
provides the declaration of Tyler Hayes, a Senior Bond Claims Litigation
Representative of ACIC.  (Hayes Decl., ¶1
at page 2, lines 2-6.)  Mr. Hayes states
that ACIC is a licensed surety company authorized to do business in the State
of California.  (Id., ¶3 at page
2, lines 13-14.)  He states that on March
20, 2020, ACIC as surety and On Point as principal made, executed, and
delivered a certain Contractor’s License Bond, bond no. 100465673 in the sum of
$15,000.  (Id., ¶1 at page 2, lines
17-20, Ex. A [Contractor’s Bond].)  He
states that the bond was conditioned upon compliance of the principal On Point
with and being subject to provisions of Division 3, Chapter 9 (commencing with
section 7000) of the Business & Professions Code.  (Id., ¶6.)  The terms of the bond provide the limitation
of the liability of the surety and the condition of the bond are set forth in
Business & Professions Code, §§ 7071.5, 7071.6, and 7071.11.  (Id., ¶7.)  Mr. Hayes states that ACIC received multiple
written demands for payment of losses/damages from the Cross-Defendants.  (Id., ¶8.)  He states that ACIC authorized its attorney
to file the cross-complaint for interpleader and injunction so that
Cross-Defendants’ claims could be quickly, economically, and adequately
determined without prejudice to the rights of Cross-Defendants.  (Id., ¶9.)  Mr. Hayes states that ACIC has no interest in
the bond funds claimed and that ACIC is a mere stakeholder.  (Id., ¶10.)  He states that ACIC cannot determine at this
time how many claimants will make a demand upon the bond and cannot determine
the amount which should be paid to each claimant.  (Id., ¶11.)  He states that ACIC seeks to be discharged
from liability with regard to the bond and seeks recovery of $3,000 in
attorney’s fees and costs from the bond amount, such that $12,000 remaining
will be deposited with the Court.  (Id.,
¶13.)  
            Counsel Amber N. Kim provides her
declaration, stating that ACIC incurred $5,069.41 in attorney’s fees and costs
to bring this action and she provides the billing accounts to show the tasks
performed and the amount of time billed. 
(Kim Decl., ¶4; Ex. 1 [Client Biling Ledger].)  She states that an additional hour will be
incurred to review the opposition and file a reply brief and that the billing
rate is at $325/hour.  (Id.,
¶5.)  Nevertheless, ACIC requests $3,000
be deducted from the penal sum of the bond as reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs for ACIC.  (Id., ¶11.)  
            Here, the Court finds that ACIC has established
its burden in bringing this unopposed motion. 
As requested, ACIC will be discharged from liability
regarding the rights and obligations of the parties to this action arising out
of the issuance by ACIC of a $15,000 Contractor’s License bond, bond number
100465673, to which Cross-Defendants have made claims.  The requested amount of attorney’s fees and
costs in the sum of $3,000 appears to be reasonable and substantiated by Ms.
Kim’s billing ledger.  (CCP § 386.6(a).) 
This amount shall be taken from the $15,000 bond amount, such that the
remaining bond amount of $12,000 shall be deposited with the Clerk of the
Court.  Pursuant to CCP § 386(f), after
ACIC’s cross-complaint has been filed, the Court may and will
enter its order restraining all parties to the action from instituting or
further prosecuting any other proceeding in any court in this state affecting
the rights and obligations as between the parties to the interpleader until
further order of the Court.  Finally, the Court
dismisses ACIC from the present action without prejudice.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant American
Contractors Indemnity Company’s motion is granted.  As
requested, ACIC will be discharged from liability regarding the rights
and obligations of the parties to this action arising out of the issuance by
ACIC of a $15,000 Contractor’s License bond, bond number 100465673, to which
Cross-Defendants have made claims.  The
request for attorney’s fees and cost in the reasonable sum of $3,000 shall be
taken from the $15,000 bond amount, such that
the remaining bond amount of $12,000 shall be deposited with the Clerk of the
Court.  Pursuant to CCP § 386(f), after
ACIC’s cross-complaint has been filed, the Court may and will
enter its order restraining all parties to the action from instituting or
further prosecuting any other proceeding in any court in this state affecting
the rights and obligations as between the parties to the interpleader until
further order of the Court.  Finally, the Court
dismisses ACIC from the present action without prejudice.   
            Defendant shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
 
DATED:  April 12, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court