 Case Number:  23BBCV01924    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
kelsi mcaleese, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
trader joe’s company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  23BBCV01924
 
Hearing
  Date: April 12, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for Determination of good faith settlement
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Kelsi Mcaleese (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on January 18,
2022, Defendants Trader Joe’s Company (“Trader Joe’s”) and Eunice Knight
Saunders Corporation (“EKSC”) negligently caused Plaintiff’s injuries due to an
improper/unsafe placement of flower carts and lack of safety barriers around
the flower cart and store entrance areas, which created a dangerous condition
on the property.  Plaintiff alleges that
she sustained injuries and damages as a result of the dangerous condition and Defendants’
failure to warn Plaintiff of the risks.  
The complaint, filed August 21, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1)
general negligence; and (2) premises liability. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints
On November 6, 2023, EKSC filed a cross-complaint against Trader Joe’s
and Roes 1-20 for: (1) implied and equitable indemnity; (2) express indemnity;
(3) contribution; and (4) declaratory relief. 
On December 27, 2023, EKSC amended the cross-complaint, naming Myrna Bejarano
as Roe 1.  
On December 7, 2023, Trader Joe’s filed a cross-complaint against Myrna
Bejarano for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) implied indemnity; (3) contribution;
and (4) declaratory relief. 
On December 7, 2023, Trader Joe’s filed a cross-complaint against EKSC
for: (1) total indemnity; (2) equitable indemnity; (3) implied indemnity; (4)
contribution; and (5) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On March 8, 2024, Cross-Defendant Myrna
Bejarano filed a motion for determination of good faith settlement. 
On March 28, 2024, Trader Joe’s filed an
opposition.  
            On April 5, 2024, Myrna
Bejarano filed a reply brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499, the California Supreme Court articulated several factors to be considered
in determining whether a settlement is in good faith within the meaning of
section 877.6:
[T]he intent and the
policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken
into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and
the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement that he would if he were found liable after
trial.  Other relevant considerations
include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.]  Finally, practical considerations obviously
require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d
at 499.)
            To determine whether a
settlement was in “good faith” the judge should inquire as to whether the
amount of the settlement is “within the reasonable range” of the settling
defendant’s proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff’s
injuries.  (Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 872; City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262.) 
Generally, a settlement will be found to be in good faith unless the
objecting defendant shows it to be “grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settlor’s
liability to be.”  (Abbott Ford, supra, 43 Cal.3d at 872.)  That is, a party opposing a good faith
settlement must demonstrate that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the
ballpark’ in relation to” the factors discussed above that it is “inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute.” 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d
at 499-500.)
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (CCP § 877.6(c).)
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            With the opposition
brief, Trader Joe’s submitted evidentiary objections to the declaration of
Megan K. Hawkins filed in support of Myrna Bejarano’s motion.  The
objections are overruled.  
DISCUSSION
Myrna Bejarano filed a motion for determination of good faith
settlement between Myrna Bejarano and non-party Hernan Bejarano, on the one
hand, and Plaintiff, on the other. Trader Joe’s opposes. 
In making its determination on the good faith nature of the settlement,
the Court evaluates the Tech-Bilt
factors.    
1.     
Amount Paid in Settlement and Allocation of Settlement
Proceeds Among Plaintiffs
The Bejaranos and Plaintiff have agreed to
settle this action for $25,000, which is the full amount of the sole applicable
insurance limit held by the Bejaranos.  In
consideration of the settlement amount, the settling parties agree to the
compromise, release, and waiver of all claims arising from the incident.  
There is only one Plaintiff in this action, such that the settlement
proceeds will not be allocated among multiple plaintiffs. 
2.     
Rough Approximation of Plaintiff’s Total Recovery and
Settlor’s Proportionate Liability
The Bejaranos state that the subject incident occurred as a result of
an accident on January 18, 2022 at the Trader Joe’s store located at 14119
Riverside Drive in Sherman Oaks. 
Plaintiff was injured as she was exiting the store when a motor vehicle
operated by Myrna Bejarano struck a column, which then struck a flower cart
that propelled into Plaintiff and caused her to sustain physical injuries.  The Bejaranos owned the vehicle operated by
Myrna Bejarano.  Trader Joe’s and EKSC
are alleged to be liable for the unsafe and improper placement of the flower
carts and for lack of safety barriers at or around the flower cart and entrance
of the store.  Plaintiff’s complaint is
alleged against Trader Joe’s and EKSC only. 
EKSC’s cross-complaint is filed against Trader Joe’s and Myrna
Bejarano.  Trader Joe filed two
cross-complaints—one against Myrna Bejarano and another against EKSC.  
The Bejaranos argue that Plaintiff’s counsel represented in
pre-litigation correspondence (over a year after the subject incident) that
Plaintiff sustained right leg/foot sprains/strain, pain, and possible internal
derangement, as well as some mental/emotional injuries, and that her medical
bills were $17,100 at that time.  
The Bejaranos do not dispute that they would likely have been liable
for some of Plaintiff’s damages and that Hernan Bejarano’s potential exposure
would be limited to $15,000 as the registered owner of the vehicle.  They argue that based on the information
available at the time of settlement, they were informed of Plaintiff’s damages
of $17,100 for medical specials.  They
argue that their pre-litigation settlement was made in good faith and is within
the ballpark of their proportional liability based on the potential liability
of the other parties, the total available insurance policy of $25,000 that was
tendered and accepted, the hard specials known at the time of settlement at
$17,100, and the consideration that one should pay less in settlement than one
should pay following a finding of liability after trial.  
In opposition, Trader Joe’s argues that Plaintiff has identified
multiple injuries as a result of the subject incident through her discovery
responses on January 8, 2024.  (Opp., Ex.
E.)  It argues that Plaintiff claims
medical bills of $1,150 for Dr. Houman M. Kashani, $3,600 for Dr. Corey
Chakarun, $950 for Shawn Roofian, $10,200 for Yoanna Yahoudai, PsyD., and $515
for Adin Daian, PT, which totals $15,465. 
(Id.)  According to her
Statement of Damages (dated August 1, 2023), Plaintiff is claiming $1,000,000
in pain suffering, and inconvenience; $1,000,000 in emotional distress damages;
interest (undetermined); $17,100 in medical expenses; future medical expenses
(undetermined); loss of earnings (undetermined); and loss of future earning
capacity (undetermined).   (Opp., Ex. D.) 
Based on these amounts, Trader Joe’s argues that the Bejaranos have not
shown that the total subject settlement amount is within the ballpark and that
the Bejaranos have not discussed their proportionate share of liability with
the nonsettling defendants Trader Joe’s and EKSC regarding the aforementioned
amounts[1]. 
However, the settlement at issue must be considered and evaluated based
on the information available at the time of settlement.  The settlement occurred in March 2023 prior
to Plaintiff filing this action on August 21, 2023.  The Statement of Damages is dated August 1,
2023 and Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory responses is dated January 5, 2024,
which are months after the settlement occurred. 
(Opp., Exs. D-E.)  In reply, the
Bejaranos argue that Plaintiff’s discovery responses confirm that she last saw
her physicians in 2022, she has health insurance, and she does not need future
medical treatment.  (Opp., Ex. E [FROG
Response Nos. 4.1, 6.4, and 6.7].)  They
also argue that Plaintiff’s claims of emotional distress damages and
pain and suffering damages in the millions does not mean she will actually
recover those sums.  Rather, they focus
on the amount of damages claimed by Plaintiff ($17,100) at the time of
settlement and the amount that they offered ($25,000).  
In making its determination on this
factor, the Court recognizes that it is acceptable for settlors to pay less in
settlement than if they were found liable after trial and also takes into
account the information available to the parties at the time of negotiations.  Based on the information that was currently
available to the parties at the time of settlement (which was prior to the
action being filed) and the information provided to the Court, the Court finds
that this factor is satisfied.    
3.     
Other
Factors: Financial Condition and Insurance Policy Limits of Settlor, and
Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious Conduct
The Bejaranos state that the only policy of insurance under which they
have coverage for the damages, claims, or actions in connection with the
subject incident was the automobile policy issued by Geico General Insurance
Company with bodily injury policy limits of $25,000 for each person and $50,000
each occurrence.  (Hawkins Decl., Exs. 2,
3, 7.)  The Bejaranos states that the
at-issue settlement occurred pre-litigation for $25,000 and they executed the
settlement on March 1, 2023.  (Hawkins
Decl., Ex. 8.)[2]  
Trader Joe’s argues that the Bejaranos have not shown evidence of their
wealth and financial consideration. 
While financial condition is a relevant factor in considering whether
the Tech-Bilt factors have been met, it is not a necessary or required
element where the settlement is not disproportionately low.  The Bejaranos have shown their policy limits
of $25,000, which is sufficient to cover and exceeded Plaintiff’s medical bills
at the time they entered the settlement prior to litigation.  
The Bejaranos argue that the settlement was not the result of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at injuring the interests of the
nonsettling defendants.  They argue that
the total available insurance policy limits were tendered and accepted prior to
litigation.  
These factors weigh in favor of finding that the settlement was entered
in good faith.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Cross-Defendant Myrna Bejarano’s motion for
determination of good faith settlement is granted. “A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (CCP § 877.6(c).)  
This courtroom is dark on June 11, 2024. On the Court’s own
motion, the Case Management Conference set on June 11, 2024, is continued to
July 22, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
Moving party shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
April 12, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  


