  Case Number:  23NWCV01381    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  SEP WINSTON INTERNATIONAL LLC V. LINARES, ET AL.CASE NO.: 23NWCV01381HEARING: 12/13/2024TENTATIVE ORDERI. Defendants Humberto Linares and Gabriela Mora Castillo’s motion to set aside request for entry of default and request for leave to file proposed answer is GRANTED.II. Defendants are ORDERED to file their attached proposed answer within 15 days.Moving party to give notice.Humberto Linares and Gabriela Mora Castillo (Defendants) move pursuant to the mandatory relief provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 473 subd. (b) and 473.5 for an order vacating and setting aside the defaults against them.BackgroundOn May 5, 2023, Winson International LLC (Plaintiff) filed this breach of contract action. On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for default judgment as to Defendants for failure to respond.Legal StandardWhen service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered, the party may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5 subd. (a).)Discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties or legal representatives from “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473 subd. (b).) “Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473 subd. (b).) “[T]he court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any…resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”DiscussionDefendants move to set aside the defaults on the grounds that they were never served with the complaints, and Plaintiff has improperly filed the requests for entry of default. Alternatively, Defendants argue they did not file an answer due to mistake or excusable neglect.Here, Defendants state they were never personally served. (Linares and Castillo Decl., ¶ 3.) In opposition, Plaintiff claims this is untrue given Defendants’ declaration that they provided the papers to their title company. However, Defendants state the papers they provided the title company were pre-litigation demands. (Linares and Castillo Decl., ¶ 2.) A proof of service of summons reflecting personal service to Defendant Humberto Linares was filed on June 6, 2023, reflecting personal service.Defendants then argue the second amended complaint was improperly served via first class mail and electronic mail. “Where the defendant has failed to appear in the action, service of an amended complaint in the manner provided for service of summons, while not necessarily a requirement for personal jurisdiction…is an essential prerequisite to a valid default judgment. (Engrebretson & Co. v. Harrison (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 436, 443.) Therefore, because Defendants had not yet appeared in the case, the Court finds that Defendants were not properly served with the second amended complaint.Alternatively, mandatory relief is available for Defendants. Defendants state Plaintiff sent Defendants pre-litigation demands the issues in this case. (Linares and Castillo Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendants then turned over these documents to their title company, Ticor Title Company of California (Title Company), believing the company would handle the matter. (Linares and Castillo Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendants were informed the Title Company, escrow company, and realtor were communicating with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding dismissing the claims. (Linares and Castillo Decl., ¶ 3.) After the Title Company did not respond to Defendants’ inquiries, Defendants learned that Title Company had been dismissed and Plaintiff was requesting a default against them. (Linares and Castillo Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendants have therefore shown excusable neglect.Further, Defendants are in compliance with the requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subd. (b). Defendants timely filed this motion on December 4, 2024, which is within the statutory proscribed limit. Defendants attach a copy of their proposed answer. (Counts Decl., Exh. A.) Counsel for Defendants additionally provided an affidavit to recount relevant events after Defendants retained counsel in November of 2024. “‘[W]hen relief under section 473¿is¿available, there is a strong public policy in favor of granting relief andallowing the requesting party his or her day in court.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-82, citations omitted.)Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to set aside request for entry of default and request for leave to file proposed answer is GRANTED.