 Case Number:  23STCV14890    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Vanessa Valdes’ Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP) is GRANTED as to each
cause of action.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 
I.       SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
In 1992 the Legislature enacted Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 as a remedy for the “disturbing increase in lawsuits
brought primarily to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of
freedom of speech and petition for the redress of grievances.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §425.16, subd. (a); Wilcox v.
Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 809, 817.)  The lawsuits are commonly referred to as
“SLAPP” lawsuits, an acronym for “strategic lawsuit against public
participation.” (Equilon Enterprises, LLC
v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 57, fn. 1.) A defendant
opposing a SLAPP claim may bring an “anti-SLAPP” special motion to strike any
cause of action “arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue . . . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) An anti-SLAPP motion may be addressed to
individual causes of action and need not be directed to the complaint as a
whole. (Shekhter v. Financial Indemnity
Co. (2001) 89 Cal.app.4th 141, 150.) 
 
In ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, a trial
court uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure at any early stage of the
litigation.” (Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.) This is a two-step
process.  First, the defendants must show
that the acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of
the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the United States of
California Constitution in connection with a public issue.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§425.16 subd. (b)(1).) Next, if the defendant carries that burden, the burden
shift to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 subd. (b)(3).) 
 
In making both
determinations the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is
based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 67.)
 
A.   
PROTECTED ACTIVITY
 
The anti-SLAPP statute defines protected
activities as:
 
(1) any written or oral statement or writing
made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other
official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e),
emphasis added.)
 
Defendant Vanessa Valdes (Valdes) argues that
the claims of Plaintiff Stewart Lucas Murrey (Plaintiff) alleged against her
arise from protected activity, namely “written or oral statement[s] or
writing[s] made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest,” as well as “any other conduct in furtherance
of the exercise of the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a
public issue or an issue of public interest.” (Motion at p. 5.) Defendant bases
this contention on the nature of the conduct alleged against her, which
consists of posts made in a Facebook group called “Are We Dating the Same Guy –
Los Angeles,” evidently a Facebook group in which users post or inquire with
other users about men they have dated or are looking into dating. (Motion at p.
2; FAC ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff alleges the following misconduct
collectively against Valdes and other defendants:
 
Defendants wrote, published, and circulated
defamatory statements about plaintiff to millions of users on Facebook . . . that
include the following states: “Public records show” [that plaintiff has]
involvement in [a] MURDER case of his ex wife,” is “suspected of murder”; [h]as
several domestic violence charges filed against him”; has “filed court cases
against women trying to extort money from them”; “[h]as acted aggressively in
court”; “has STDs”; has an “ex-wife who was killed”; deserves to be “ARRESTED”;
“claim[s] he is an attorney”; and that plaintiff is listed on the California
court’s public record as being a vexatious litigant.”
 
(FAC ¶ 8.)
 
It is unclear from the pleading which of the
above statements Plaintiff attributes to Valdes, but Plaintiff in opposition
presents a post by Valdes, in a comment chain with other Facebook users about
Plaintiff:
 
Kari Woodring Webster
 Wow.
Talk about going down a rabbit hole. His Twitter makes him look insane and all
the court cases. Wow
 
Liv Burger
Be aware he’s still active on tinder. Just
reported him
 
Vanessa Valdes
“HOW HAS THIS GUY NOT BEEN REMOVED FROM
DATING APPS AND ARRESTED ALREADY?!?! 
I matched with him a couple years ago and
received the most BIZARRE and threatening messages from him! It was so weird
and scary that I even reported him to Hinge support, but never knew if anything
was done about him. I’m so disgusted to see all these horrible testimonials
about him, because it means he gets away with everything. He needs to be
stopped!”
 
(Murrey Decl. Exh. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff presents another Facebook post in
which Valdes, apparently reacting to another user’s account of dealings with
Plaintiff, posts the following:
 
So
unbelievable. Thank you for sharing. I just joined this group and it’s already
been so helpful. I’m so glad we’re protecting each other.
 
(Murrey Decl. Exh. 7.) Valdes followed this
comment with an image of a report she made to a dating app concerning
Plaintiffs, in which she said:
 
Lucas
sent me some very strange, very aggressive messages out of nowhere. He called
me names and said he liked “watching me burn”. I feel threatened and afraid for
any woman who agrees to meet with him in person.
 
(Murrey Decl. Exh. 7.) [1]
 
Although Plaintiff argues that Valdes made
statements implying that he had murdered his ex-wife or girlfriend, Plaintiff
offers no evidentiary foundation to attribute any such statement to Valdes.
(Murrey Decl. ¶¶ 15–16, Exh. 6.) Plaintiff also attributes to Valdes a user’s
statement that Plaintiff “is truly dangerous,” but this post appears to be
directed to Valdes, not her own communication. (Murrey Decl. ¶¶ 20–21, Exh. 8.)
 
From the
above, there is ample basis to conclude that Plaintiff’s suit against Valdes
arises from protected activity, both through statements made in a public forum
concerning an issue of public interest and through conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a
public issue or an issue of public interest. Valdes’s statements were made in
an online Facebook group to what Plaintiff’s FAC characterizes as an audience
of “millions.” (FAC ¶ 10.) Similar online postings have been held to involve a
“classic public forum.” (Chaker v. Mateo
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1146.) 
Plaintiff’s objection that he was not permitted to join the
group in question does not obviate the character of public forum. (Opposition
at pp. 10–11.) Smaller scale, closed publications have been held to amount to
public fora. Statements made in a newsletter of limited circulation to a small
neighborhood of homeowners and characterized as “a mouthpiece for a small group
of homeowners who generally would not permit contrary viewpoints to be
published in the newsletter” has likewise been held to be a public forum. (Damon
v. Ocean Hills Journalism Club (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 468, 476.) A federal
court applying this precedent ruled that even a private Facebook group of
14,900 members could constitute a public forum under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Hicks
v. Bradford (C.D. Cal., Dec. 13, 2022, No. CV217330DMGGJSX) 2022 WL
20689541, at *4.) Thus the statements at issue here were made in a public
forum.
The evidence and pleadings also establish that Valdes’s
posts involved a matter of public interest: women’s security against male
violence and harassment. Plaintiff’s allegations disclose as much. He states that these and other Facebook
groups “allegedly exist to protect women.” (FAC ¶ 59.) In his original
Complaint, he found fault with Defendants “postur[ing] about protecting women”
in their posts. (Complaint ¶ 30.) He contended that the posters “aggressively
promote themselves . . . as champions and protectors of women.” (Complaint ¶
31.) The evidence indeed shows that Valdes herself construed her statements
within this pattern, at one point stating, “I’m so glad we’re protecting each
other.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 7.)  Although
Plaintiff contends that these representations are insincere, this alleged
insincerity would not remove the subject of discussion from the public
interest. Courts have held comments made on a “Ripoff Report Web site” about a
business owner’s “character and business practices,” concerned a public
interest under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Chaker, supra, 209
Cal.App.4th at p. 1146.) Valdes’ comments about Plaintiff’s
harassing conduct, on a forum directed to warning women against men who engage
in such conduct, concerned at least as great a public interest.
Thus the present case against Valdes arises from protected
activity within the meaning of the anti-SLAPP statute.
B.    
LIKELIHOOD OF PREVAILING
After a defendant meets their burden of
showing that the gravamen of the complaint involves protected activity, the
plaintiff must then “demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
539, 548.) A defendant can meet its burden if it can establish that the
plaintiff cannot overcome an affirmative defense. (Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275 at 285.) 
 
“[A] plaintiff cannot simply rely on his or her pleadings, even if
verified. Rather, the plaintiff must adduce competent, admissible evidence.” (Grenier
v. Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 480.)
“Legally sufficient”
means that the cause of action would satisfy a demurrer. (Dowling v. Zimmerman (2001) 85 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1421.) The
evidentiary showing must be made by competent and admissible evidence. (Morrow v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444.) Proof, however, cannot be made
by declaration based on information and belief. (Evans v. Unkow (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1497–1498.) The question
is whether the plaintiff has presented evidence in opposition to the
defendant’s motion that, if believed by the trier of fact, is sufficient to
support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor. (Zamos v. Stroud (2004) 32 Cal.4th 958, 965.)
 
Defamation
“involves (a) a publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d)
unprivileged, and that (e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes
special damage.” (Price v. Operating Engineers Local Union No. 3 (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 962, 970.) A false light claim based upon the same facts as a
defamation claim “must meet the same
requirements.” (Hawran v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 277.) “The
sine qua non of recovery for defamation ... is the existence of falsehood.”
[Citation.] Because the statement must contain a provable falsehood, courts
distinguish between statements of fact and statements of opinion for purposes
of defamation liability. Although statements of fact may be actionable as
libel, statements of opinion are constitutionally protected.” (ZL
Technologies, Inc. v. Does 1-7 (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 603, 624.)
Plaintiff’s defamation and false light claims against
Valdes fail because Defendant identifies no defamatory or false publications
made by Valdes. Although Plaintiff identifies an undated and otherwise
unelaborated post implicating him in the murder of his ex-wife, Plaintiff
identifies no evidence linking Valdes to the post, or any of her other
statements to false accusations of murder.
The statements that Plaintiff does identify are not false
statements of fact. Valdes in one post asked, in all capital letters, how it
could be that Plaintiff has “NOT BEEN REMOVED FROM DATING APPS AND ARRESTED
ALREADY?!?!” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 4.) This statement immediately preceded
Valdes’s description of her own experience matching with Plaintiff on a dating
app, in which he had made “bizarre and threatening messages” that were “so
weird and scary that I even reported him to Hinge support.” (Ibid.)
Valdes said that Plaintiff “needs to be stopped!” (Ibid.) But Valdes did
not misrepresent the character of her interaction with Plaintiff. She
truthfully reported to Hinge (and posted the report on Facebook) that Plaintiff
had told her “it’s fun watching you burn.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 2.) Although
Plaintiff now presents the comment as stating that Valdes was burning “her
second chance to connect with me,” there is no hint of this bizarre hidden
meaning in the actual text communications. (Opposition at pp. 8–9; Murrey Decl.
¶ 6, Exh. 2.) 
Indeed, Valdes accurately reported the comment, and had
ample reason to find Plaintiff’s messages threatening. Based on the texts he
himself presents here, Murrey opened communication with Valdes solely to
harangue her for using a picture with another man in her profile. (Murrey Decl.
Exh. 1.) When told to read the caption, he responded by calling her a “moron,” and
saying it was fun to watch her “burn.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 2.) When Valdes said
she was going to report him, he threatened to subpoena any report she made to
Hinge about his behavior and sue her for defamation. (Murrey Decl. Exhs. 1–3.) Plaintiff
had ample reason to opine on the “threatening” and “scary” nature of
Plaintiff’s communications, and to question in hyperbolic tones why he had not
been arrested and removed from dating apps.[2]
Plaintiff in opposition attempts to add further defamatory
statements to his case that are not mentioned in his pleading. Specifically,
Plaintiff identifies statements made on a GoFundMe web page, seeking to raise
money for the legal expenses of the defendants in this action, which includes
the statement that Defendant “has named 50+ defendants in total,” and that the defendants
are being sued for sharing “truthful accounts of our personal experiences.”
(Opposition at p. 3; Murrey Decl. Exh. 5.) 
But both statements are substantially true. As noted above,
Plaintiff is suing Valdes for accurately relaying and opining on the nature of
her interaction with Plaintiff. And even if a defamatory meaning could be
inferred from the numerical difference between the “50+ defendants” described
on the GoFundMe page and the ten named Defendants and 50 unnamed Doe defendants
actually listed in the caption to Plaintiff’s FAC, the GoFundMe page’s
characterization is not far off the mark on substance. Beyond the ten named
defendants, Plaintiff’s FAC lists dozens (if not hundreds) of “Facebook
cyberbully criminals” by name. (FAC at p. 7, fn. 1.) And as this court noted in
denying Plaintiff’s first motion in this case, Plaintiff has not attempted to
limit his discovery to the named defendants:
[I]t is unclear which persons Plaintiff seeks
to identify. The Complaint lists ten individual defendants in the caption, as
well as 50 potential Doe defendants. His Complaint also contends that Facebook
itself, and potentially its “administrators/moderators,” are defendants as
well. (Complaint ¶ 33.) Plaintiff further confuses matters in his declaration
by identifying scores of other women whom he claims participated in the
wrongful conduct at issue. (Murrey Decl. ¶¶ 49–51, 52, 55, 57), as well as
a large number of Facebook moderators whom he claims “operate behind the scenes
and with no responsibility to the law.” (Murrey Decl. ¶ 59.) Plaintiff does not
indicate the individuals for whom discovery is sought, and the potential scope
is incredibly broad.
(9/29/2023 Order.) Given
that Plaintiff himself has had trouble keeping track of who is in this case and
out of it, the statements on the GoFundMe page are thus neither false nor
defamatory.
 
The motion to strike
is therefore GRANTED as to the first and second causes of action.
 
As to the remaining
causes of action — for sex discrimination, gender violence, false light,
invasion of privacy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, intentional
interference with economic advantage, negligent interference with economic
advantage, civil conspiracy, and declaratory relief, Plaintiff advances no
argument save to claim that Valdes’ statements do not constitute protected
activity. (Opposition at pp. 11–14.) Plaintiff thus makes no attempt to satisfy
his burden to show a likelihood of prevailing on the claims.
 
The evidence presented
shows no possibility of Plaintiff prevailing against Valdes on any claim. The
third cause of action for sex-based discrimination under Civil Code § 51,
concerns Defendants’ alleged failure to permit Plaintiff to join their Facebook
group to challenge their alleged defamatory statements. (FAC ¶¶ 57–68.) But
even if a Facebook group is construed as a “business establishment” under Civil
Code § 51, subd. (b), there is no evidence that Valdes either defamed Plaintiff
because of his sex or had any role in denying him access to the group. Nor has
Valdes engaged in “gender violence” against Plaintiff within the meaning of
Civil Code § 52.4, as might support Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.
Although Plaintiff alleges that Defendants disclosed his full name, telephone
number, address, likeness, text messages, medical decisions, and vaccine
history to others (FAC ¶ 93), there is no evidence that Valdes disclosed any
private information. For the same reasons, there is no evidence to support an
allegation that Valdes engaged in outrageous conduct under the seventh cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (FAC ¶¶ 104–111.) And
the claims for interference with economic advantage require as an element that
the defendant commit “wrongful acts,” which the evidence does not suggest
occurred here. (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc.
v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2
Cal.5th 505, 512.) Plaintiff presents no evidence that Valdes conspired with
other defendants to commit wrongful acts, or to support his derivative cause of
action for declaratory relief.
 
The
anti-SLAPP motion is thus GRANTED in its entirety.
 
 


