 Case Number:  24STLC02002    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Tues., December 3, 2024                                JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Johnson
v. Socially Oriented United Living, COMPL. FILED:      03-20-24
                                    Inc.                              
                                                                                                            XCOMPL. FILED:   09-18-24 
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC02002                                                DISC.
C/O:                08-05-25

NOTICE:                   NO
                                                                 DISC. MOT. C/O:     08-26-25
                                                                                                            TRIAL DATE:          09-17-25

 
PROCEEDINGS:     DEMURRER
TO DEFENDANT’S CROSS-COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Gregory Johnson 
RESP. PARTY:         Defendant/Cross-Complainant Socially
Oriented United Living, Inc. 
 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.; 435;
436)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:                                                                        
 
For the foregoing
reasons, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Gregory Johnson’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as
to the first cause of action and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to
the second and third causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Gregory Johnson’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.
 
_____________________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       NO 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on November 18, 2024                          [   ]
Late                      [  ] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of November 25, 2024              [   ] Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff Gregory Johnson
(“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Defendant Socially Oriented United
Living, Inc. dba Soul Housing (“Defendant”) and Does 1-10, alleging a single
cause of action for Breach of Contract. (Compl., p. 1.) The claim arises from a
lease agreement between the two parties, and Plaintiff alleges Defendant has
accrued and owes Plaintiff $11,516.00 for unpaid rent. (Compl., ¶ 12, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff
further alleges Defendant owes Plaintiff $7,580.00 for significant damage
beyond normal wear and tear. (Compl., ¶ 13, Exh. 3.) With credit applied for a
$2,700 security deposit, Plaintiff alleges Defendant has accrued and owes
Plaintiff a total of $16,396.00. (Compl., ¶ 14.)
 
On July 2, 2024, default was entered
against Defendant. On September 10, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s Motion
to Set Aside/Vacate the Default and denied the Request for OSC re Sanctions.
(9/10/24 Order.) 
 
On September 18, 2024, Defendant filed
an Answer to the Complaint. The same day, Defendant/Cross-Complainant also
filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, alleging causes of
action for Anticipatory Breach, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, and Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations.  
 
On September 24, 2024, the Honorable
Karine Mkrtchyan found the instant case and Case No. 24STLC02022 to
be related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). The
Court held the instant case is the lead case and ordered that “[t]his order is
made without prejudice to the parties making a motion to consolidate.” (9/24/24
Order.)
            
On October 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint (the “Demurrer”) and a Motion to Strike (the
“Motion”) as to portions of the Cross-Complaint. On November 18, 2024,
Defendant filed an Opposition to both the Demurrer and Motion. No Reply was
filed.
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
Before addressing the merits of the
Demurrer and Motion, the Court notes Plaintiff gave Defendant improper notice
of this hearing. Specifically, the Notice of Demurrer and Notice of Motion
incorrectly state that the Demurrer and Motion would be heard at “111 North
Hill Street, Los Angeles, California 90012.” (Notice of Demurrer; Notice of
Motion.) This is the address for the Stanley Mosk Courthouse, not the Spring
Street Courthouse in which this Department is located. Should Defendant wish to
attend the hearing and present oral argument, they will be unable to do so. 
 
Additionally, the Court notes a
discrepancy as it pertains to service of process. Plaintiff states the Demurrer
was served on October 18, 2024 by electronic service; however, Defendant
contends Plaintiff did not serve Defendant with the Demurrer until November 12,
2024. (Demurrer, Proof of Service; Opp., p. 5, fn. 1.) The parties are reminded
to abide by the notice requirements as put forth in Code of Civil Procedure.
 
 
III.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
IV.             
Legal
Standard
 
“As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
A general demurrer may be
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under
section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However,
“[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good
cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
V.               
Discussion
 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days
before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(3).) 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a). (Demurrer, Uss Decl.) According to the declaration, the parties
spoke by telephone on October 17, 2024 and corresponded via email thereafter
regarding the issues with the Cross-Complaint to be raised in the Demurrer
(Demurrer, Uss Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) However, the parties were unable to resolve
the issues during the discussions. (Demurrer, Uss Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Thus, the Court finds the meet and
confer requirement satisfied.
 
B.     Demurrer 
 
Allegations in the Cross-Complaint
 
In the Cross-Complaint, Defendant
alleges the following: This action concerns real property located at 1325 W.
61st Street, Los Angeles, California 90044 (the “Premises”) that is part of a
multi-family duplex. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 5.) On or about December 1, 2016,
Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a written residential lease (the
“Contract”). (Cross-Compl., ¶ 6.) Defendant leased the Premises from Plaintiff
to use as a transitional home, and this intended use was included in Paragraph
5 of the Lease Agreement. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 7; Compl., Exh. 1.) At all times,
Plaintiff utilized a property management company called Ocean Properties, Inc.
to manage the Premises. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 8.) Defendant would deliver all rent
payments to Ocean Properties, Inc., who would receive the payments on
Plaintiff’s behalf. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 9-11.) 
 
During the period relevant to this
action, the tenants living at the Premises were part of Defendant’s
transitional housing program and had contracts with Defendant that required
them to pay rent to Defendant. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 13.) Defendant relied on these
rent payments to meet its rent obligations to Plaintiff. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 13.) At
all relevant times, Plaintiff was aware of and knew about the contracts between
Defendant and tenants, and Defendant had similar arrangements at every property
it rented that was managed by Ocean Properties, Inc. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 14.) 
 
After the COVID-19 Pandemic struck,
tenants living at the Premises stopped making regular payments to Defendant
and, due to government-imposed restrictions, rent relief measures, and other
regulations, Defendant was unable to enforce rent and thus could not meet its
rent payments to Plaintiff. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) However, Defendant was able
to collect partial rent payments and, as it collected the payments, Defendant
asked Ocean Properties, Inc. how to divide up the payments and followed its
instructions. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff accepted these partial payments
for much of the pandemic. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 17.) 
 
In Spring 2022, Plaintiff inexplicably
began to refuse to accept further payments from Defendant, despite Defendant
making payments and progress catching up on its outstanding balance.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 18.) Ocean Properties, Inc. informed Defendant that Plaintiff
no longer wished to receive rent payments and would seek to evict Defendant.
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 18-19.) 
 
As a result, Defendant was forced to
find alternative housing for its residents and vacated the Premises in August
2022, incurring significant costs in the relocation. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 20.)
Plaintiff did not make any demands to Defendant regarding unpaid amounts on the
Premises for two years until this instant action arose in March 2024.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 21.) 
 
Defendant alleges three causes of
action against Plaintiff: (1) Anticipatory Breach, (2) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and (3) Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations.
 
Moving Party Position
 
            Plaintiff
demurs as to each cause of action on the grounds the Cross-Complaint fails to
state sufficient facts to state each cause of action, and each cause of action
is uncertain. (Motion, p. 2.) Regarding Anticipatory Breach, Plaintiff states
Defendant’s claim is vague and conclusory that Plaintiff refused to accept rent
payments and that other tenants have had eviction proceedings brought against
them. (Motion, p. 3.) Plaintiff further alleges Defendant fails to specify the
amounts of the partial payments Plaintiff allegedly refused to accept, and
Plaintiff did not breach the contract because Defendant failed to pay the full
$2,700 of rent owed each month as delineated in the lease. (Motion, pp. 3-4.)
Thus, Plaintiff was entitled to refuse partial payment and could not
anticipatorily breach the terms of the lease agreement itself as a matter of
law. (Motion, pp. 4-5.) Plaintiff states that even if he “sought the judicial
system for redress of grievances concerning other tenants,” such action would
not impart liability upon Plaintiff for this matter. (Motion, p. 4.) 
 
            As to
the cause of action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, Plaintiff contends that the purpose of the Contract was solely for
lease of the Premises and nothing more, and thus Defendant “cannot attribute a
duty of good faith under the lease agreement to apply separate, nebulous and
un-alleged contracts” between Plaintiff and unknown third parties. (Motion, p.
5.) 
 
            Regarding
the cause of action for Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations,
Plaintiff states Defendant makes conclusory allegations and fails to allege the
existence of valid third party contracts, the number of the contracts, the
parties to the contracts, and the terms of the contracts. (Motion, pp. 5-6.)
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant fails to state an independent wrongful
act done by Plaintiff to impose liability on Plaintiff in this action. (Motion,
p. 6.) 
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff states the parties met and conferred regarding the issues raised in
the Demurrer. (Motion, pp. 6-7.) 
 
            Opposition

 
            In
Opposition, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s mischaracterizes the allegations of
the Cross-Complaint and “demands an unreasonable level of specificity that
California law does not require.” (Opp., pp. 5, 10.) Regarding Anticipatory
Breach, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s acceptance of partial payment of the rent
for the Premises waived Plaintiff’s claim of breach and reiterates arguments
made in the Cross-Complaint. (Opp., pp. 9-10.) 
 
            As to
the cause of action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, Defendant contends that there is an implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing in every contract, including every lease, and Plaintiff frustrated
the contract “by wrongfully refusing to accept rent and conveying to Soul
Housing Johnson’s intent to evict Soul Housing from the Premises.” (Opp., p. 11.)

 
            Regarding
the cause of action for Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, Defendant
contends California law does not “require the types of specific details that
[Plaintiff] demands to plead this cause of action,” and, contrary to
Plaintiff’s claims, Defendant need not allege an “independent wrongful act.”
(Opp., pp. 11-13.) Defendant emphasizes that the Cross-Complaint pleads
sufficient details regarding the contracts of Defendant with third parties,
Plaintiff’s knowledge of the contracts, and Plaintiff’s interference with the
contractual relationships. (Opp., pp. 12-13.) 
 
Finally, in the event the Court
sustains the Demurrer, Defendant requests leave to amend to cure any defects.
(Opp., p. 13.)
 
Analysis 
 
To the extent Plaintiff alleges the
causes of action in the Cross-Complaint are uncertain under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, the Court declines to rule on those special demurrers
pursuant to the limitation set forth at Code of Civil Procedure section 92,
subdivision (c). Accordingly, the Court addresses only Plaintiff’s contentions
regarding whether the Cross-Complaint states sufficient facts to support each
cause of action.
 
1st Cause of Action – Anticipatory
Repudiation (Breach of Contract) 
            
            Plaintiff
demurs on the ground that the Cross-Complaint fails to state sufficient facts
to allege anticipatory repudiation because anticipatory repudiation by
Plaintiff was impossible as a matter of law given that Defendant failed to pay
rent and was “in default of the terms of the lease agreement.” (Demurrer, p.
5.) 
 
The elements of a breach of contract
cause of action are (1) existence of contract; (2) plaintiffs’ performance or
excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendants’ breach (or anticipatory breach); and
(4) resulting damage. (See Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N.Y. Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) If the action is based on an alleged breach
of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 229, 307.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms –
set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citations.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it
requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff attached a copy of the
lease agreement between the parties to the Complaint, and Defendant referenced
the attachment in the Cross-Complaint. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 6; Compl., Exh. 1.)
However, Defendant failed to set out verbatim the terms of the lease agreement
in the Cross-Complaint or attach a copy of the lease agreement to the
Cross-Complaint itself. (Harris, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at p.
307.) Nevertheless, the Court finds Defendant satisfactorily pleads the
existence of the Contract as it is pled by its legal effect as well as included
in the record. (McKell, supra, 142 Cal.App.4th at p.
1489.)
 
Turning to breach, Defendant alleges it substantially performed the
Contract, except “those things it was excused from having to do,” and thus
Plaintiff anticipatorily breached the Contract when Plaintiff “inexplicably”
refused to accept partial rent payments from Defendant in Spring 2022 after
Plaintiff had previously accepted partial payments from Defendant.
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 11, 16-18, 23-26.) While Plaintiff contends Defendant’s claim
is barred as a matter of law and provides authority stating landlords are
generally allowed to reject partial payments from a lessee, Plaintiff does not
address or provide conclusive legal authority demonstrating Defendant’s pleaded
facts – that Plaintiff anticipatorily repudiated the contract by declining to
accept partial payments after already having accepted such payments –
fails to constitute anticipatory breach as a matter of law. In fact, Plaintiff
cites authority bolstering such a claim. (Demurrer, p. 3, citing EDC
Associates Ltd. v. Gutierrez (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 167, 170.) 

            As to the remaining elements for breach of contract,
Defendant alleges that as a direct and proximate result of Plaintiff’s
anticipatory breach, Defendant suffered damages when it had to vacate the
premises and find alternative housing for residents at significant expense.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 28.) 
 
Thus, Defendant has sufficiently pled a cause of action for breach of
contract. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to first cause of
action.

 
2nd Cause of Action – Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
“ ‘ “ ‘Every contract imposes upon
each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its
enforcement.’ ” ’ ” (Hicks v. E.T. Legg & Associates (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 496, 508, citations omitted.) “ ‘[T]he scope of conduct prohibited
by the covenant of good faith is circumscribed by the purposes and express
terms of the contract.’ ” (Id., at p. 509, citation omitted.) “The
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract,
exists … to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other
party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.” 
(Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349.) 
 
A cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing must first allege the existence
of a contractual relationship. (Smith v. San Francisco (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 38, 49.) The allegations for this cause of action then must go “ ‘
“beyond breach of the contractual duty itself.” ’ ” (Careau & Co. v.
Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.)
Indeed, “allegations which assert such a claim must show that the conduct of
the defendant, whether or not it also constitutes a breach of a consensual
contract term, demonstrates a failure or refusal to discharge contractual
responsibilities, prompted not by an honest mistake, bad judgment or
negligence but rather by a conscious and deliberate act, which unfairly
frustrates the agreed common purposes and disappoints the reasonable
expectations of the other party thereby depriving that party of the benefits of
the agreement. Just what conduct will meet these criteria must be determined on
a case by case basis and will depend on the contractual purposes and reasonably
justified expectations of the parties.” (Id., at p. 1395.)
 
            Here,
Defendant’s second cause of action does not allege anything beyond the earlier
alleged breach of contract. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 29-37.) This is insufficient to
allege a cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. (See Careau & Co., supra, 222 Cal.App.3d at p.
1394.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 348.)
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second cause of
action. 
 
3rd Cause of Action – Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations 
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations, a plaintiff must plead and
prove (1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third
party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the defendant’s
intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Reeves v. Hanion (2004) 33
Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) To establish such a claim, “the plaintiff need not prove
that a defendant acted with the primary purpose of disrupting the contract, but
must show the defendant’s knowledge that the interference was certain or
substantially certain to occur as a result of his or her action.” (Ibid.)
 
As to the first requirement of the
“existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third party,”
Defendant references that Defendant had “valid contracts with the residents of
the Premises, who were part of Soul Housing’s transitional housing program” and
points to Paragraph 5 of the Contract which enshrined this intended use.
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 7, 13, 39.) However, Defendant fails to set forth the
existence of a valid contract by demonstrating the terms of the tenants’
contract(s), the number of contracts, and/or the contract(s) themselves. Even
the legal effect of the contract(s) is not sufficiently pled as Defendant
merely provides a brief overview of the alleged contract(s) without a careful
analysis of the rental agreements themselves, the amounts to be paid by the
tenants, the number of tenants living at the premises, or the specific impact
of COVID-19 in tenants’ payment plans. (See e.g., McKell, supra,
142 Cal.App.4th at p. 1489.) 
 
Turning to the second and third
requirements, Defendant states Plaintiff was “aware of and knew about the
contracts between Soul Housing and the tenants” because of Paragraph 5 of the
Contract, which states the Premises “will be used as a group home. Tenant
agrees that the demised premises shall be occupied by no more than 10
people, without the written consent of the landlord.” (Compl., Exh. 1;
Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 5, 7, 14, 40.) Defendant sufficiently alleges facts that
Plaintiff knew of, at most, 10 people living in the premises; however,
Defendant fails to plead facts that Plaintiff knew about the specific contracts
Defendant entered into with the tenants of the Premises. Indeed, the
Cross-Complaint’s reference to Paragraph 5 in the Contract is insufficient –
Paragraph 5 merely states the Premises will be occupied by no more than 10
people; it does not state whether contractual relationships exist between the
(up to) ten people and Defendant. (Opp., pp. 12-13; Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 7, 13,
39.) Without satisfactorily pleading Plaintiff’s knowledge of the Contract(s),
Defendant necessarily fails to sufficiently allege facts to demonstrate the
related element that “the defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a
breach or disruption of the contractual relationship.” (Reeves, supra,
33 Cal.4th at p. 1148.) 
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 348.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third cause of action.
 
C.     Motion to Strike 
 
Moving Party Position
 
Plaintiff moves to strike a portion of
Defendant’s Prayer for Relief, specifically the request for a “judicial
determination of Cross-Defendants’ responsibility and liability for any damages
claimed by Johnson which are found to exist.” (Motion, p. 3; Cross-Compl.,
Prayer.) Plaintiff alleges this request is either an improper request for an
advisory opinion or declaratory relief, both of which are not permitted in
limited jurisdiction court, or an improper request for quasi-declaratory relief
without sufficient legal support. (Motion, p. 3.) 
 
                        Opposition
 
            In
Opposition, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s request to strike the judicial
determination aspect of Defendant’s Prayer for relief should be denied because
there is nothing improper about the request. (Opp., pp. 2-3.) Contrary to
Plaintiff’s claim, Defendant states the request is not a hypothetical advisory
opinion; rather, the relief sought is “actual and definitive” and seeks an
“actual decree as to the parties’ liability and damages,” not an advisory
opinion. (Opp., pp. 2-3.) 
 
                        Analysis
 
California law authorizes a party’s
motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant,
false, or improper. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436.) Motions may also target
pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in conformity with
applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
The “filing
of a notice of motion to strike an answer or complaint, or portion thereof,
shall not extend the time within which to demur.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §435, subd. (d).) 
 
However, motions to strike in limited
jurisdiction courts may only challenge pleadings on the basis that “the damages
or relief sought are not supported by the allegations of the complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 92, subd. (d).) The Code
of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to
strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
436.) 
 
Finally, Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion
to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) (Emphasis added.) 
 
As an initial matter, the Court finds
Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement of Code of Civil
Procedure section 435.5. Indeed, Plaintiff submitted a declaration stating the
parties conferred by telephone on October 17, 2024 regarding the issues to be
raised in the instant Motion. (Motion, Uss Decl., ¶ 3.) Despite the parties
“best efforts,” they were “unable to resolve the issues related to this
Motion.” (Motion, Uss Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Turning to the merits of the Motion,
the Court agrees that Defendant may not request declaratory relief in limited
jurisdiction court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 580, subdivision
(b)(4), except for the specific type of declaratory relief outlined in Code of
Civil Procedure section 86, subdivision (a)(7). Defendant argues the request is
not an advisory opinion and states the request is “akin to an ‘apportionment of
liability’ ”; however, Defendant does not offer any further clarification as to
the relief requested or how it is not an improper request for declaratory
relief. (Opp., p. 3.) Since Defendant’s request appears to be a request for
declaratory relief and does not conform to Code of Civil Procedure section 86,
the relief requested is improper.  
 
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED
with leave to amend.
 
VI.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Gregory Johnson’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the First
Cause of action and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Second and Third
Causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Gregory Johnson’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 