  Case Number:  24STCP02100    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Tues., December 3, 2024                                JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Spaysecure
Pet Services, LLC v. Magana
 
CASE NUMBER:     24STCP02100                                                 PET. FILED:             07-01-24

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  
                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDINGS:     PETITION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
MOVING PARTY:   Petitioner
SpaySecure Pet Services, LLC  
RESP. PARTY:         None  
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
(CCP § 1281.2, et
seq.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner SpaySecure Pet
Service’s Petition to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. Petitioner’s Request for Costs is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
_______________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK 
[X] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of November 25, 2024              [   ] Late                      [X] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of November 25, 2024              [   ] Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
 
On January 3, 2023, Petitioner SpaySecure
Pet Services, LLC (“Petitioner”) entered into a contractual Spay and Neuter
Agreement (the “Contract”) with Mayra Magana (“Respondent”). (Petn., ¶ 4.) 
On March 27, 2024, Petitioner sent a
letter to Respondent informing her she had violated her contractual obligations
by “failing to meet the requirement of mandatory alteration of the [female
Australian labradoodle] dog” and that Petitioner intended to commence a formal
arbitration proceeding against her. (Duckler Affidavit, Exh. 2; Petn., ¶ 9.)
 
On July 1, 2024, Petitioner filed the
instant Petition to Compel Arbitration (the “Petition”). (Petn., p. 1.) 
 
No Opposition was filed.
 
On October 29, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing on the Petition from November 11, 2024 to December 3,
2024 due to the Court’s unavailability. (10/29/24 Order.)
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
California law incorporates
many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (“Rosenthal”).) The Court is empowered by the Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states: 

 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 


            (a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
            (b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to
the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section
1295.”  
 
(Code of Civ.
Proc., §§ 1281.2(a)-(c).)  
 
            The
petition to compel arbitration functions as a motion and is to be heard in the
manner of a motion – namely, the facts are to be proven by affidavit or
declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the
court’s discretion. (Code of Civ. Proc., §
1290; Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 402.) The
petition to compel must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and
the arbitration clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and
incorporated by reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
 
            If
the court orders arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until “an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” 
(See Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)          
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Arbitration Agreement
 
Petitioner brings the instant Petition
seeking to compel Respondent to submit to arbitration based on the Contract.
 
“Under both the [Federal
Arbitration Act] and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except upon such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.” (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, “the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute,” and “[g]eneral
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination.” (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire
Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
Here, Petitioner presents evidence of the
Contract, which includes a section called, “Enforcement Conditions – Binding
Arbitration” (“Arbitration Provision”).  (Duckler
Affidavit, ¶ 7; Exh. 2,
pp. 5-6.) The Contract was signed by Petitioner, Respondent, and breeder Cherry
Valley Labradoodles. (Aveling Affidavit, Exh. 1, p. 8; Duckler Affidavit, Exh.
1, p. 8.) The Arbitration Provision provides in pertinent part: 
 
“VI. ENFORCEMENT CONDITIONS 
A. Binding Arbitration. The parties agree that any dispute
arising out of or relating to this Agreement that is not otherwise privately
resolved between the parties shall be exclusively resolved by binding
arbitration (hereinafter “the arbitration”). 
1. The arbitration shall be conducted
by California Arbitration & Mediation Services (hereinafter
"CAMS"), shall follow those specific policies and procedures set
forth by the arbitrator assigned to the dispute by CAMS (hereinafter “the
neutral”), and shall comply in general with California Code of Civil Procedure,
Title 9, Sections 1280-1294 4 (hereinafter "the California Arbitration
Act"). The parties further agree that: 
a. The arbitration shall allow for
participation by any party thereto via the party appearing in person, via video
conference, via telephone, or via any other reasonable form of remote
appearance, and without requiring any other party to appear in the same manner;

b. The fees and expenses of the
arbitration shall be shared equally by the parties except for at the conclusion
of the arbitration, the neutral shall award costs and expenses (including the
costs of the arbitration previously advanced and the reasonable fees and
expenses of attorneys and other experts) to the prevailing 
c. The neutral shall render an award
within thirty (30) calendar days following the conclusion of the arbitration
proceeding; 
d. The decision of the neutral shall
be in writing and shall set forth specific findings of fact and conclusions of
law; and, 
e. The arbitration award shall be
binding upon the parties with no rights of appeal allowed and judgment may be
entered upon the award in any court having jurisdiction thereof. 
2. The aggrieved party shall provide
written notice to the responding party that an arbitration is being sought
under this section and once the neutral has been assigned shall arrange an
initial joint telephone conference with the neutral and the responding party to
confirm the arbitration process. To the extent that a responding party objects
to the neutral assigned, they shall raise all objections to the selection at
the telephone conference and shall abide by the neutral's decision on those
objections. 
3. Should the responding party fail to
respond or actively refuse to respond to the written notice within 10 days of
receipt of the notice, the aggrieved party shall have the option of 
a) filing a petition with a California
Superior Court under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1231.2 in order
to compel arbitration in a state court forum, or of b) requesting that the
neutral proceed with presentation of a prima facie case and issue an award
subsequent to that presentation consistent with California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1252.2(l)(3). The parties agree that the neutral shall have
the specific authority to issue such an award, as well as the general authority
to issue an award during the arbitration due to the willful failure or refusal of
any party to reasonably participate at any stage of the arbitration.”
 
(Duckler Affidavit, ¶ 7; Exh. 2, pp. 5-6.)
 
No Opposition has been filed.
 
The Court finds
that Petitioner has met its burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement. As noted above, Respondent does not dispute its
signature appears on the agreement, and Petitioner submitted a copy of the Contract
and Arbitration Provision to the Court. Further, Petitioner submitted evidence
that it provided written notice to Respondent on March 27, 2024 that an
arbitration was being sought (Duckler Affidavit, ¶ 7, Exh. 2), and Petitioner arranged
an initial joint telephone conference with a CAMS neutral and Respondent to
confirm the arbitration process in compliance with the Contract’s terms.
(Duckler Affidavit, ¶¶ 7, 8.) Finally, the Arbitration Provision states it
applies to “any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement that is
not otherwise privately resolved between the parties.” (Duckler Affidavit, Exh. 2, pp. 5-6.) The
Arbitration Provision specifically applies to Petitioner’s claims against
Respondent, given that the causes of action arise out of material terms of the
Contract regarding the “mandatory alteration” of a female Australian
labradoodle dog. (Duckler Affidavit, ¶ 5, Exh. 2; Aveling Affidavit, ¶ 5, Exh. 2.)
 
Thus, the Court
finds that an Arbitration Agreement exists between the parties, and there is
presently no defense to its enforcement. 
 
            Costs
and Fees
            Petitioner
also requests an award of costs and fees incurred in conjunction with bringing
this Petition. 
 
“The court shall
award costs upon any judicial proceeding under this title as provided in
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 1021) of Title 14 of Part 2 of this
code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1293.2.)  “A petition to compel arbitration under
section 1281.2 is a judicial proceeding covered by this provision.”  (Otay River Constructors v. San Diego
Expressway (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 796, 805.) 
 
However, no
proof is submitted regarding the costs incurred by Petitioner. 
 
Therefore,
Petitioner’s request for costs is DENIED without prejudice.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Petitioner SpaySecure Pet Services, LLC’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Petitioner’s Request for Costs
is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 