 Case Number:  24STCV08288    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31  HEARING DATE:     September 13, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE:  Not set                                                          CASE:                         Mike Tehrani, et al. v. Mehrdad Adjari CASE NO.:                 24STCV08288  PETITION FOR RELEASE OF MECHANIC’S LIEN FROM PROPERTY PETITION FOR RELEASE OF SECOND MECHANICS LIEN MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Mehrdad Adjari RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Mike Tehrani and Eskan Builders, Corp.  I.         INTRODUCTION             This case concerns the property located at 12428 Laurel Terrace Drive, Studio City, California 91604 (the “Property”).  Defendant Mehrdad Adjari (Defendant or Adjari) is the owner of the Property.  In 2021, Adjari and Plaintiffs Mike Tehrani and Eskan Builders, Corp. (Plaintiffs) entered into a written contract wherein Plaintiff agreed to provide labor, services, equipment, or materials for a construction project on the Property.  Plaintiffs completed the work.  Adjari failed to pay Plaintiffs for the amount due.  This action followed on April 2, 2024.             Before the court are Defendant’s two (2) Petitions for Release of Mechanic’s Lien.  The Petitions were heard on August 8, 2024.  In advance of the hearing, the court issued a tentative ruling stating that the court’s inclination was to grant the First Lien but for procedural defects in that Petition, and to deny the Petition as to the Second Lien. The parties submitted to the court’s ruling regarding the Second Lien.               As to the First Lien, Plaintiffs represented to the court that they recorded a release of the First Lien.  Therefore, the Petition re: First Lien was moot. Pursuant to oral stipulation, the court continued the hearing for the Petitions to September 13, 2024.  The parties were directed to submit supplemental briefing concerning the mootness of the First Petition and its effect on the recovery of attorney’s fees. On August 15, 2024, Defendant filed a status report indicating that the procedural defects on his Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien (First Lien) had been corrected.  Defendant now seeks attorney’s fees.  On August 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition and evidentiary objections to the Declaration of William G. Silverstein.  The Silverstein Declaration was filed in support of Defendant’s August 15, 2024, status report. On September 10, 2024, Defendant filed a late reply. The court rules as follows. II.        LEGAL STANDARD             After a mechanic’s lien has been recorded, “[t]he owner of property or the owner of any interest in property subject to a claim of lien may petition the court for an order to release the property from the claim of lien if the claimant has not commenced an action to enforce the lien within the time provided in Section 8460.”  (Civ. Code, § 8480, subd. (a).)  A claimant must commence an action to enforce a lien within 90 days of recording the lien. (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (a).)  Section 8460 further provides that “[i]f the claimant does not commence an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and is unenforceable.” (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (a).) Section 8460 also provides that the 90-day time limit to commence an action to enforce a lien does not apply if there was an agreement to extend credit and a notice of that fact was recorded within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien or more than 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien but before a purchaser or encumbrancer for value and in good faith acquires rights in the property.  (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (b).)           III.      EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS             Plaintiffs submit sixteen (16) objections to the Declaration of William G. Silverstein.  The objections are OVERRULED.             Plaintiffs also object to Defendant’s untimely filed reply.  The court exercises its discretion to consider Defendant’s late reply. IV.       JUDICIAL NOTICE             Plaintiffs unopposed request for judicial notice is GRANTED. V.        DISCUSSION             In March 2023 and May 2024, Plaintiffs recorded Mechanics Liens on the Property.  The liens are recorded in the Official Records of Los Angeles County as document numbers 20230170026 (the “First Lien”) and 20240323880 (the “Second Lien”), respectively.  Defendant sought orders directing the release of the liens. A.   First Lien             At the August 8 hearing, Plaintiffs pointed out they recorded a release of the First Lien on July 18, 2024.  As such, the Petition re First Lien was moot.  Further, the court agreed with Plaintiffs observation about several procedural defects in Defendant’s Petition re: First Lien.  The court continued the matter to allow the parties to address whether attorney’s fees may be awarded when a petition to release a mechanic’s lien is mooted before the hearing. Defendant does not offer any authority for the proposition that reasonable attorney’s fees may be awarded for a mooted petition for release of mechanic’s lien.  Even if such authority exists, Defendant does not offer any evidence to show he has cured all procedural defects noted in the court’s previous order.  For instance, Defendant did not verify the Petition and did not include a certified copy of Plaintiffs’ claim of lien.  These defects, and others, remain.  In short, Defendant petitions to release a lien which was released prior to the filing of the petition, and attempts to recover attorney’s fees on a procedurally defective lien.  And, as stated, the procedural defects have not been cured.  There is no occasion to order the release of a lien which no longer exists.  Further, because Defendant does not demonstrate he has cured the defects in the Petition, any award of attorney’s fees would not be reasonable.    Plaintiffs’ Request for Attorneys’ Fees             Plaintiffs request an award of attorneys’ fees in the sum of $2,125.  The prevailing party is entitled to reasonable attorney's fees.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 8488, subd. (c).)  Here, Plaintiffs are the prevailing party.  Accordingly, the court awards reasonable attorneys’ fees in the sum of $850 at Plaintiffs’ counsel’s hourly rate. B.    Second Lien           The same procedural defects in the initial Petition re First Lien are likewise applicable to the Petition re Second Lien.     Defendant argues the Second Lien should be released because Plaintiffs did not timely record the lien within 90 days.  “A claimant other than a direct contractor may not enforce a lien unless the claimant records a claim of lien within the following times: (a) After the claimant ceases to provide work.(b) Before the earlier of the following times:(1) Ninety days after completion of the work of improvement.(2) Thirty days after the owner records a notice of completion or cessation.”   (Civ. Code, § 8414.)[1]             Here, Defendant contends the work was completed on March 15, 2023. Plaintiffs then recorded the Second Lien on or about May 16, 2024, which is more than ninety days later.             In opposition, Plaintiffs point to the allegations in its First Amended Complaint which states, “Plaintiffs are informed and believe that the work of improvement on the Project was completed on or about February 28, 2024.”  (FAC, ¶ 54.)  Thereafter, Plaintiffs recorded the Second Lien within the 90 day period.             In reply, Defendant pivots and argues the work is ongoing.  And, because the work is ongoing, the Second Lien was recorded prematurely.  At best, Defendant points to a factual dispute.  This issue is best disposed by way of trial or summary judgment.  VI.       CONCLUSION  The Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien from Property is MOOT.   The Petition for Release of Second Mechanics Lien is DENIED. Defendant’s request for attorneys’ fees is DENIED.     Plaintiffs’ request for attorneys’ fees is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to pay attorneys’ fees in the sum of $850 to Plaintiffs, by and through their counsel, within 30 days of this order. Defendant to give notice.  Dated:   September 13, 2024                                Kerry Bensinger    Judge of the Superior Court  