 Case Number:  24SMCV01240    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
This is a wrongful foreclosure case.  According to the operative First Amended
Complaint (FAC), plaintiff borrowed money with Encore Credit Corporation in the
amount of $712,000.  Plaintiff also
executed the typical documents that accompany such a loan, such as a deed of
trust.  On April 20, 2011, defendant MERS
(not the moving party) recorded an assignment of the deed conveying the
beneficial interest to the Bank of New York (BONY).  Plaintiff alleges that MERS lacked the
authority to do so because it was not the noteholder in due course, a party to
the contract that secured the note, or a third party beneficiary.  Plaintiff alleges that ReCon Trust unlawfully
caused a substitution of attorney to be filed on December 9, 2005 that
substituted it as the trustee, but plaintiff alleges that there was no valid
power of attorney recorded as to that document nor a certificate of
mailing.  Plaintiff contends that Peak
Foreclosure Services (PFS) then unlawfully recorded a notice of default without
reaching out to plaintiff to explore other options.  Roll Tide then bought the property by
submitting the winning bid at the auction in March 2023.  Peak recorded a Notice of Trustee’s Sale on
or about February 21, 2024.  The instant
demurrer is brought by Recon Trust and it is unopposed.  The court sustained an earlier demurrer with
leave to amend because the documents attached to the original complaint belied
the allegations against Recon Trust. 
Recon Trust’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
ReCon Trust’s demurrer is again well taken.  Although plaintiff alleges that ReCon Trust
caused the wrongful substitution of attorney to be filed, the document attached
to the FAC does not so state.  Rather, it
indicates that Lisa Sirianni was the original trustor and MERS was the original
beneficiary under the original deed of trust, and that she was substituting
ReCon Trust in as the new trustee.  But
that is a document that does not really concern plaintiff or give plaintiff any
rights.  As the underlying documents
indicate, Sirianni is the prior owner of the property.  The document in question is part of a process
showing that the deed of trust she had signed was being released.  It is plain that this document has nothing to
do with this plaintiff or this case. 
There are no other allegations of wrongdoing by ReCon Trust.
 
Plaintiff might be claiming that defendants wrongfully
foreclosed because they did not perfect a security interest in the
property.  Plaintiff notes that such an
interest could be established by a lawful possession and proper transfer
only.  But ReCon Trust persuasively
argues that plaintiff is simply recasting the “holder of the note” theory of
liability that has been rejected in California. 
(Shuster v. BAC home Loans Servicing, LP (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
505.)  Plaintiff’s own exhibits
demonstrate that MERS, as the original beneficiary, had the power to assign the
deed of trust, which it did to BONY which substituted Peak as the trustee.  Peak had the power to foreclose under
California law.
 
The court also believes that plaintiff’s individual claims
against ReCon Trust fail.  Many of the
acts alleged are privileged, and thus do not properly form the basis for
liability here.  And there are no facts
to support a theory of constructive fraud. 
The UCL cause of action stands or falls with the rest of the case as
does the IIED cause of action (and there are no allegations that would satisfy
that cause of action’s requirements).  
 
Because plaintiff has not come close to alleging anything
that ReCon Trust allegedly did wrong, and because leave to amend was previously
given and plaintiff was unable to come close to a proper amendment, the court
sees no purpose in giving leave to amend again. 
In fact, plaintiff has not even opposed the motion, indicating that
plaintiff agrees that it cannot allege anything against this defendant.  Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.  ReCon Trust will submit
an Order of Dismissal within 10 days.
 