 Case Number:  24SMCV05536    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  I The application is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.  Plaintiff leased certain property to the
defendant for two months, from October 10, 2024 to December 10, 2024.  The lease was for residential purposes only
and prohibited commercial uses, loud uses, smoking, or large numbers of
guests.  The allegation is that starting
on about November 1, 2024, defendant started using the property for very large
gatherings consistent with his celebrity status but inconsistent with the
lease.  That included weddings, a
carnival, and the use of pyrotechnics. 
At one time, there was a 200 piece marching band.  Defendant also disabled the security
system.  Plaintiff seeks a TRO (which is
essentially the end of the case given that the lease expires in two weeks), to
stop defendant from violating the lease. 
Plaintiff alleges a host of torts, including invasion of privacy,
slander of title, nuisance, interference with prospective business advantage,
UCL violations, and fraud.  And, of
course, plaintiff alleges breach of contract. 
Plaintiff sought such a TRO last week, but it was denied without
prejudice in part because the lease was not attached and in part for other
reasons.
 
The court is inclined to GRANT the TRO to the extent that it
will order defendant to refrain from engaging in conduct that requires a
permit, requires specialized insurance, or is against the law.  That would include things like pyrotechnics
and could well include things like having a carnival with rides.  The fact, though, is that if it does not
require a permit and it is not illegal, and does not require separate
insurance, it will not violate the TRO.  
 
The court is unpersuaded that plaintiff is likely to prevail
on any tort other than, perhaps, fraud or nuisance.  It does seem to the court like having
fireworks on private property or using blow torches in the house cannot just be
done.  That kind of thing is
dangerous.  It can start a fire; people
can get hurt.  And, to the extent that
specialized insurance is necessary, the damages should any bad thing occur
might not be covered but the number could be quite large.  It seems to the court like an adequate
showing has been made that defendant is engaging in such conduct, and it is
appropriate for the court to order that to stop.  The other torts are more problematic.  The court does not see this as invasion of
privacy or true slander of title.  The
causes of action might be shown eventually, but on this record, the court
cannot see a strong likelihood of prevailing. 
Nor does the court see irreparable injury once the dangerous stuff is
stopped.  There could well be a loud
party, but that is hardly irreparable and there is no evidence of any neighbor
complaining.  To the extent that the
property is damaged beyond the security deposit, it would seem that plaintiff
has an adequate remedy in damages. 
Further, there is evidence that plaintiff was willing allow much of the
conduct here at issue had defendant been willing to pay the higher rent
plaintiff demands for commercial use. 
That strongly suggests that there is an adequate remedy at law.
 
The court has also reviewed the reservation agreement.  It does contain the occupancy limits (15
people at night, 25 during the day), the requirement that the property not be
used for commercial purposes without permission, the non-smoking inside
requirement, and the non-use of dangerous and inflammable materials.
 
The court will also order defendant to restore the security
system forthwith—no later than 30 hours from the time of service of this
order.  That is for the overall security
of the property and disabling it was likely for the purpose of ensuring a lack
of evidence.  Plaintiff has the right to
the security system and to be sure the TRO is not being violated.
 
The court will discuss the OSC.  The court will issue one, but the question is
whether there is any purpose in trying to hold it before December 10.  Right now, the court has no reason to believe
that defendant will not leave the premises when the short term rental expires,
and frankly it does not seem to the court like the race is worth the candle to
hold a full-on PI hearing the day before defendant leaves.