 Case Number:  24PSCV01289    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’
MOTION FOR A PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION is TBD/continued for supplemental
briefing/pending results from Chicago Title. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from efforts to convert a golf course for housing development and other
purposes. Plaintiffs RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT FOR RDW (“RDW”) and James W. Chu
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the following against Defendants RV DEV LLC
(“RV”) and SUNJOINT DEVELOPMENT, LLC (“Sunjoint”) (collectively, “Defendants”):
Plaintiffs are the owners of real property and are beneficiaries of a
protective covenant running with their land. (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶1); Defendants are the owners of the
Royal Vista Golf Club in the city of Walnut and the surrounding golf course
properties, property that is subject to certain conditions and restrictions. (¶¶10-12.) Article II of the conditions
and restrictions limits the use of Defendants’ land to be used only for the
purpose of a golf course. (¶17.) Defendants,
however, have recently closed the golf course and are changing the nature of
the property. (¶18.)
 
On April 23, 2024, the action was filed. 
 
On May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their FAC for Injunctive Relief for
Breach of Protective Restrictions.
 
On May 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for preliminary
injunction.[1]
 
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an ‘EX PARTE APPLICATION FOR ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE AN ORDER DETERMINING AN OSC IS NOT
REQUIRED’ (“ex-parte application”) (seeking an Order to Show Cause (OSC) re
Preliminary Injunction pursuant to Rule 3.1150 of the California Rules of
Court, or in the alternative an order determining that an OSC is not required).
 
On May 31,
2024, RV (specially appearing defendant at the time of filing the opposition)
filed an opposition to the ex-parte application (namely on the grounds that
there can be no irreparable harm for not operating or maintaining a golf
course).
 
On June 3,
2024, the court denied Plaintiffs’ ex-parte application. 
 
On June 6,
2024, RV filed its opposition to the preliminary injunction motion (including
evidentiary objections). That same day, Sunjoint also filed its opposition to
the motion.
 
On June 12,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply to both oppositions. 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice (RJN)
 
RV’s unopposed
RJN of Exhibits 1 through 6—which are all documents recorded in the
Official Records of the Recorder’s Office of Los Angeles County—is granted.
(Evid. Code §§ 452, 453.) The court will take judicial notice of the recorded
property documents and accepts the fact of their existence, but not the truth
of their contents. (See Herrera v. Deutsche Bank Nat'l Trust Co. (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375; Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23, 36-37 [trial court properly took
judicial notice of recorded land documents and properly found that the recorded
deed of trust was the “legally operative document designating the
beneficiary”].)
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Need not be
ruled on at this time as immaterial to adjudication of motion.
 
Discussion
 
Before
engaging in the merit(s), the court finds it helpful to presents the following uncontroverted
facts/evidence to establish a common understanding of the dispute. 
 
Facts/Evidence
 
-       
The
general real property at issue is a former golf course property (“Royal Vista
Golf Club” or “Golf Course”) that includes a clubhouse, 27-hole golf course,
and driving range. The named Defendants are not the sole owners of the parcels
that make up the Gulf Course. Nonparty Willington Investments, LLC is the owner
of where the clubhouse is located. I
-       
On
December 26, 1961, Huntington First Savings and Loan (“Declarant”) executed a
Declaration of Protective Restrictions (“1961 Declaration” or “Protective
Restriction”). 
-       
The
1961 Declaration contains four pertinent sections: the Preamble, and Articles
I, II, and III. 
-       
The
preamble of the 1961 Declaration
states, in pertinent part, that the conditions and restrictions are for the
benefit of “the surrounding property now owned by Declarant, and of the
property now owned by Helene M. Airey and by Andre Moynier which is contiguous
on the west to the property which is subject to this declaration, and of any
and all persons who may become members and/or operators of proposed Willow
Springs Golf and Country Club.” (RV’s RJN Ex. 1, p. 4 of 57 of PDF.) The 1961 Declaration
does not specifically identify what are these “benefitted” properties because there
is no legal description of the benefitted properties nor a map of the
benefitted properties. (RV Opp. p. 9, Sunjoint Opp. p. 3.) 
-       
Article
I is entitled
“Property Subject To This Declaration of Protective Restriction.” Per the map
provided by RV, the red parcels/parcels 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 are subject
to Articles I, II, and III. RV owns Parcels 10, 11, 13, and 14 (20% of the
total golf course) and Sunjoint owns Parcles 7, 8, and 12 (5.8% of the total
golf course). (Opp. p. 7.) Accordingly, about 75% of the golf course property
is not burdened by the 1961 Declaration. 
-       
Article
II is entitled
“Character of Improvements,” and contains the conditions and restrictions that
the property in Article I is subject to. Article II, in relevance part, specifically
provides the following:
 
Uses. All property described herein shall be used only for
the purpose of a golf and country club and its
appurtenances, including golf trees, greens, fairways and rough, water storage
and landscaping. (RJN, Ex. 1, emphasis added.) 
 
-       
Article
III is entitled
“Scope and Duration of Conditions and Restrictions.” This Article specifically
provides:
 
All of the conditions and restrictions set forth in this declaration
shall run with the land and continue to be in full force and effect until
January 31, 2016, and shall, as then in force, be continued automatically
and without further notice from that time for a period of twenty (20)
years, and thereafter for a successive period of twenty (20) years, unless,
within the six months prior to expiration of any period as set forth
hereinabove, the then owners of the property covered in this declaration
shall be able to show that the property is no longer suitable for use as a golf
course. (emphasis added). 
 
-       
On
August 12, 2021, the then-owner (RVGC Partners, Inc.) signed a ‘Declaration’ (attempting)
to terminate the 1961 Covenant, which was recorded on August 27, 2021. (RJN,
Ex. 2, pp. 10-13 of 57 of PDF.)[2]

-       
On
January 30, 2024, RV purchased its six parcels. 
 
-       
On
February 29, 2024, the golf course operation closed (though the clubhouse
continues to host events). 
 
Analysis[3]
 
As argued by
both Defendants, the threshold issue in this case is standing. Though it was
not entirely clear from the motion, Plaintiffs in Reply clarify that they are demanding
that Defendants cease violating the 1961 Declaration/Protective Restriction because
they are successors in interest.[4]
Effectively, the issue of whether Plaintiffs have standing (i.e., a vested,
enforceable property right) turns on whether Plaintiffs (the homeowners) falls
into one of the following four categories of benefitted properties: 
 
(i)             
the
property/parcels listed in Article I; 
(ii)           
“of
the surrounding property now owned by Declarant,” 
(iii)         
of
the property now owned by Helene M. Airey and by Andrew Moynier which is
contiguous on the west to the property,” or
(iv)          
and
of any and all persons who may become members and/or operators of proposed
Willow Springs Golf and Country Club.” (See 1961 Declaration.) 
 
Of note, Article II, paragraph 2, ‘fencing’ does
make express reference to adjacent residents. 
 
2. Fencing. No fencing is to be allowed to be constructed between the
golf course and contiguous residential property, except as specifically
required in certain locations for the protection of the golf club property and
the golf club members and of the adjacent residents and/or their
property, and except as required by law. (emphasis added.) 
 
Thus, as this
is a matter of contract interpretation[5]
and it is axiomatic in contract interpretation that that the intention of the
parties govern and here, the Declarant’s definition of the
property subject to the Protective Restriction does not list/identify
the adjacent residents and/or property are not benefitted property, then
the pertinent way for Plaintiffs to be successors in interest would be to own,
for example, property owned by “Helene M. Airey and by Andrew Moynier which is
contiguous on the west to the property.” 
 
However,
despite bearing the burden and despite Plaintiffs’ stating that they are
“beneficiaries of a protective covenant running with their land,” they fail to provide
sufficient evidence of what land they own that is rightly benefitted by the
Covenant, which is a requirement to enforce any benefit to a covenant running
with the land. This leads to the
court’s ruling: continue the hearing pending receipt of documents that have
been ordered from Chicago Title. (Supp. Decl., Chu.) 
 
Therefore, as
the title documents would satisfy that a request for an injunction be supported
by the evidence[6],
the court continues the hearing. At this juncture, the court will not address
other arguments. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the hearing is continued. The court is amenable to offering
supplemental briefing pending title documents. 
 
 
 
 


