  Case Number:  23PSCV01940    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff
Kim Hernandez’s Motion To Compel The Deposition Of Defendant General Motors,
Llc’s Person Most Qualified, With Production Of Documents And Request For
Monetary Sanctions In The Amount Of $3,000.00 is GRANTED (RFP Nos. 1, 4,
6, 7, 8, 10, and 11) and DENIED in part (RFP Nos. 2, 3, 5, and 9); sanctions
are not imposed.

 
This is a
lemon law case. 
 
On June 28,
2023, Plaintiff KIM HERNANDEZ filed suit against Defendant General Motors, LLC
for violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act arising from her
purchase of a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado that suffered from defects related to
the transmission, valve body, TCM, rattle, no start, and other defects. 
 
On August 2,
2023, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On April 22,
2024, the parties appeared before the court for an IDC wherein at the
conclusion the court allowed for the filing of a formal motion.
 
On May 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion.
 
On May 29,
2024, Defendant filed its opposition. 
 
On June 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)  
 
The motion must be accompanied by a good faith meet and
confer declaration under section 2016.040[1] or, “when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)   
 
Discussion
 
At the
outset, the court notes that both parties’ papers are seemingly generic.
For example, Plaintiff’s motion, though 14 pages, argues that the discovery at
issue is discoverable because “The categories of testimony and document
requests are universally discoverable in lemon law cases. Further they are
straightforward, relevant to Plaintiff’s claims, are not overbroad in scope,
are not privileged or otherwise protected in any way, and are in accordance
with the Court’s Case Management Order issued on January 12, 2024.” (Motion pp.
11-12.)[2]
That, however, does not specifically identify how each discovery
request is relevant to this Plaintiff’s express and implied warranty and
damages claims. As for GM’s opposition and separate statement, that too is minimal
in analysis as it conclusively contends that “GM’s objections to Plaintiff’
notice are well-founded because Plaintiff is seeking overly broad and
irrelevant information.” (Opp. p. 4:3-4.) 
 
The following
RFPs are at issue:
 
REQUEST NO. 1:
WRITINGS which refer to, evidence or reflect service or repairs performed on
the SUBJECT VEHICLE at any time, including, but not limited to, the warranty
repair history, service request documents, work orders, repair orders, labor
receipts, parts order forms, computer printouts, parts receipts and billing
statements.
 
REQUEST NO. 2:
Any and all correspondence with any person, entity or organization other than
YOUR attorney relating or referring in any way to Plaintiff or the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST NO. 3:
Your California lemon law policy and procedure manual(s) used by your dealers
or authorized customer service representatives.
 
REQUEST NO. 4:
Your Customer Relations file regarding Plaintiff or the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST NO. 5:
WRITINGS provided to YOUR Customer Relations Representatives, which refer,
reflect, or relate to rules, policies or procedures concerning the issuance of
vehicle purchase refunds or replacements pursuant to the California
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
 
REQUEST NO. 6: YOUR
Technical Service Bulletin Index, and any TSB’s that relate to the WARRANTY
NONCONFORMITY(S) alleged in this case.
 
REQUEST NO. 7: Any
recalls that apply to the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST NO. 8:
WRITINGS that YOU reviewed in determining not to repurchase or replace the
SUBJECT VEHICLE prior to the date Plaintiff’ lawsuit was filed.
 
REQUEST NO. 9:
YOUR lemon law policy and procedure manual
 
REQUEST NO. 10:
A copy of any photographs or videos of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
REQUEST NO. 11:
WRITINGS that document the total number of vehicles of the same make, model and
year as the SUBJECT VEHICLE that have been repurchased by YOU due to the same
WARRANTY NONCONFORMITY(S) alleged in this case pursuant to California’s lemon
law.
 
As some
requests, GM that it has “agreed to produce a witness to testify about repairs
made to Plaintiff’s vehicle, recalls and technical service bulletins,
warranties, and the reasons that GM did not repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle.”
(Opp. p. 1:23-25.) Moreover, these requests are reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. After all, Plaintiff seeks
information regarding this specific vehicle or vehicles of the same
year, make and model.[3]

 
Thus, the
motion is GRANTED as to RFP Nos. 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, and 11. 
 
To the extent Plaintiff seeks GM’s manual regarding
policies and procedures, Plaintiff argues that GM “must produce those written
policies and procedures” and cites to Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1191, 1198- 1199 for the proposition that the “court in Song-Beverly
Act litigation admitted evidence of Ford’s corporate policies and practices as
it was relevant to civil penalty damages.” (SS p. 30.) But the Johnson case provides no such
holding. The manual at issue was not the company’s manual,
but the vehicle policy manual. (Id. at
p. 1199.) Plaintiff’s
other citation to Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1094 is equally misplaced as any discussion was as to the owner’s
manual. Therefore, as Defendant has set forth valid
objections, including but not limited to, the request seeking
potentially confidential information and/or work product privilege and
Plaintiff has not met its burden establishing why a further response is
required, the motion is DENIED as to RFP Nos. 2, 3, 5, and 9. 
 
As for
sanctions, Plaintiff
contends that it has been trying to depose GM since July 2023, that the parties
have met and conferred 21 times, and that GM failed to appear at two properly
noticed depositions. Though the latter is concerning, Defendant clarifies that
they did object to the depositions, which is contrary to Plaintiff’s
characterization. (See e.g., Motion p. 2 [despite failing to raise any
objection to the properly noticed deposition, GM failed to appear at the
deposition].) Therefore, as the motion was granted and denied in part, the
court declines to impose sanctions on either party. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is granted and denied in part and sanctions are not
imposed.  


