  Case Number:  22LBCV00979    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Eduardo Martinez filed this action against Defendants,
Satvir Singh and Gobind Trucking, Inc. for damages arising out of an automobile
accident.  
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Further Responses
a.     Analysis
On 12/15/23, Defendants filed this
motion to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, setting it for hearing on
7/09/24.  Any opposition to the motion
was due on or before 6/25/24.  Plaintiff
has not filed timely opposition to the motion. 

 
However, on 12/11/23, four days
before Defendants filed the motion on calendar today, Plaintiff filed a motion
for relief from discovery objections. 
Plaintiff set the motion for hearing on 8/27/24.  The motion seeks relief from waiver of
objections in connection with, in pertinent part, the same SROGs, set one, that
form the basis of Defendants’ motion to compel further responses.  
 
Further complicating the matter, on
4/17/24, Plaintiff filed two motions to compel further responses – one directed
at Defendants’ responses to FROGs and the other directed at Defendants’
responses to SROGs, and set those motions for hearing on 9/17/24.  
 
The Court is hopeful the fact that
the motion on calendar today is unopposed means the parties have been meeting
and conferring in an attempt to resolve their issues.  In the event that is incorrect, the Court
finds today’s motion to compel further responses and the 8/27/24 motion for
relief from waiver of objections should be heard together.  The hearing on today’s motion to compel
further responses is therefore continued to 8/27/24.  If the parties have resolved their issues,
they must take the motions off calendar using the online reservation management
system.  If the parties have not resolved
their issues, they must both file timely opposition and reply papers.
 
 In the interest of efficiency, the Court is
also advancing the 9/17/24 hearing date and continuing it to 8/27/24.  Again, if the parties resolve their issues,
they must take the motions off calendar. 
If they do not resolve their issues, they must file timely opposition
and reply papers.  
 
If, between now and 8/27/24, additional discovery motions are filed,
the Court will consider appointment of a discovery referee in lieu of ruling on
the parties’ voluminous discovery disputes. 
If the parties wish to avoid appointment of a discovery referee, they
must meet and confer in good faith in an attempt to resolve all outstanding
disputes without the need for the 8/27/24 hearing.
b.    
Final
Note
On 7/01/24, Plaintiff filed a grossly untimely opposition to the
motion.  The Court had already prepared
the tentative ruling, above, before Plaintiff submitted the opposition.  
 
The Court wishes to note a number of incorrect statements in the
opposition.  
 
The opposition incorrectly asserts that an IDC is mandatory, quoting
the rules that apply in the personal injury hub courts.  This case is assigned to an IC department in
Long Beach, not the personal injury hub courts. 

 
Plaintiff also incorrectly states that the law does not permit
imposition of sanctions when a motion becomes moot prior to resolution.  CRC 3.1348(a) specifically permits the Court
to impose sanctions even if there is no opposition, opposition is withdrawn, or
the requested discovery is provided after the motion is filed.  
 
The Court is not inclined to change its tentative ruling in light of
the untimely opposition papers.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   