 Case Number:  23LBCV02411    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Kirk Cully filed this action against Defendants, Matson
Navigation Co., Sargeant Marine, Inc., Point Shipping Corp., Vulcan Carriers,
Ltd., Sheridan Transportation, and Atlandic Tankships for Jones Act negligence,
unseaworthiness, and maintenance cure and found.  Plaintiff named Moving Defendant Hess Corp.
as a doe defendant in the action.
 
Plaintiff sues for exposure to benzene while working on container ships
in various locations.
 
2.    
Motion to Quash

Parties’ Positions

Hess, Sheridan, and Point move to
quash service of the summons and complaint, contending they lack the requisite
minimum contacts with the State of California to support imposition of
jurisdiction against them in the state.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues (a) Hess owned the ITB Jacksonville
when Plaintiff was aboard the ship, (b) Hess owned and sold natural gas plants
in CA in the 1990s, sold gas in CA in 1999, and had at least one ship in CA in
2001, (c) Hess is presently engaged in a $53 billion merger with Chevron, which
is based in CA.  Alternatively, Plaintiff
seeks leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery into Hess’s relationship with
Point and/or Sheridan, and to discover their relationship with the forum state.
 
Defendants, in reply, contend
Plaintiff’s showing does not involve systematic contacts with CA that would
support imposition of general jurisdiction, and Plaintiff’s showing of some
contact with CA does not tie in any way to his injuries, such that jurisdiction
would be proper.  Defendants contend a
continuance to allow jurisdictional discovery is not warranted because they
have provided full and complete evidence with their moving papers, and nothing
further would support imposition of jurisdiction against them.  
 

Law Governing General Jurisdiction

The “paradigm” forums in which a corporation will be considered “at
home” and thus subject to general jurisdiction are (1) its place of
incorporation; and (2) its principal place of business.  Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117,
137;  Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations,
S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 923-924. 
Though a corporation is not necessarily subject to general jurisdiction
only in the “paradigm forums,” general jurisdiction is not available in every
state in which the corporation “engages in a substantial, continuous, and
systematic course of business.” The inquiry is not whether the corporation's
in-forum contacts are in some sense continuous and systematic; “it is whether
that corporation's affiliations with the State are so continuous and systematic
as to render it essentially at home in the forum State.”   Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 US 117,
138-139.  
 

Law Governing Specific Jurisdiction

Even if a nonresident defendant's “contacts” with California are not
sufficient for general jurisdiction, the defendant may still be subject to
jurisdiction on claims related to its activities there under a specific (also
called “case-linked”) jurisdiction analysis. The inquiry focuses on the
relationship between the defendant, the forum and the litigation.  Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283-284.  For the state to exercise jurisdiction over a
defendant consistent with due process, “the defendant's suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”   Id. at 284. 

 
Such “specific” personal jurisdiction requires a showing of:
•           Purposeful
availment: The out-of-state defendant purposefully established contacts with
the forum state;
•           Arising
out of: Plaintiff's cause of action “arises out of” or is “related to”
defendant's contacts with the forum state; and
•           Reasonableness:
The forum's exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular case comports
with “fair play and substantial justice.” 
Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 477-478.
 
The nonresident defendant must have purposefully directed its
activities at the forum, or purposefully availed itself of the privilege of
conducting activities within the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and
protections of local law.   Dow Chemical
Canada ULC v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 179.  “Minimum contacts” may be created by a
nonresident's use of mail, telephone or email. 
Hall v. LaRonde (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344.  
 
For specific jurisdiction, plaintiff's claim must “arise out of” or be
“related to” defendant's forum activities. 
Burger King Corp., supra, at 477-478. 
That a nonresident enters California to execute or perform a contract
with a California resident does not per se establish “minimum contacts.” The
court considers all factors affecting negotiation, execution and performance of
the contract in determining whether defendant purposefully established minimum
contacts with the forum. Id. at 478-479.
 
That a nonresident entered into a contract with a forum resident does
not by itself establish “minimum contacts” between the nonresident and forum
state. Nor is it enough that the forum was the “place of contracting” or “place
of performance” or that breach has “caused an effect” (financial loss) in
California. The place where a contract is executed “is of far less importance
than where the consequences of performing that contract come to be felt.”   Stone v. State of Texas (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
1043, 1048 (holding that hiring a California resident did not subject the nonresident
employer to California jurisdiction where services were rendered outside
California).  
 
Rather, courts must adopt a “highly realistic” approach in determining
whether a nonresident contracting party “purposefully established minimum
contacts within the forum” taking into consideration:
•           — prior negotiations;
•           — contemplated future
consequences;
•           — terms of the
contract; and
•           — the parties' actual
course of dealings.  Burger King Corp.,
supra, at 478.  
 

Law Governing Discovery Pending Jurisdictional Motion to Quash

In order to meet its burden of proof, a plaintiff is entitled to
conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction before the hearing
on the defendant’s jurisdictional motion to quash; e.g., to establish the
nature and extent of the defendant's “contacts” in California.  The hearing date is often continued to
facilitate such discovery.  Mihlon v. Superior
Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 711.
 

Analysis

Plaintiff, as to Hess, did not make a showing that Hess is essentially
“at home” in California.  He made, at
most, a showing that Hess sporadically conducts activity in CA, including
selling gas, owning a ship that may have, at some point, been in CA, and
owning/selling natural gas plants in CA in the 1990s.  He failed to tie any of these activities to
his own injuries, such that imposition of specific jurisdiction would be
appropriate.  He makes much of a proposed
merger, but fails to show the merger has gone through, which would be the
relevant inquiry.  
 
Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to show Hess should be subject to
jurisdiction in CA.  Plaintiff failed to
make any showing at all as to Sheridan and Point.  
 
The Court finds, however, that the size of the defendant’s corporations
and the complexity of their relationship to one another warrants permission to
conduct jurisdictional discovery.  The
Court cannot rely on Defendants to provide the evidence they choose to support
their contention that discovery is not warranted.  Notably, pursuant to West Corp. v. Superior
Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1180, when the amount at issue is
relatively small, a local plaintiff may not be able to afford litigation at a defendant’s
residence in another state, and the due process clause should be applied
flexibly to ensure commercial actors are not effectively judgment proof for the
consequences of obligations they assume in other states.  The Court is not finding Plaintiff can meet
this test, but does not that his injuries, compared to Defendants’ size, are
very small.    
 

Conclusion

The hearing on the motion to quash is continued for three months, to
Thursday, 10/10/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The parties must engage in good faith
jurisdictional discovery forthwith. 
Plaintiff is, of course, limited to conducting discovery (as to these
moving defendants) that is directly relevant to the jurisdictional inquiry
during this time period.  
 
3.    
Case Management Conference and OSC
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC and OSC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above
motion.  The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC, OSC, and hearing on the
motion.  