 Case Number:  23LBCV00403    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Brady Gamble filed this
action against Defendants, Ford Motor Company and Villa Ford of Orange for
damages under the Song-Beverly Act and for negligent repairs.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff seeks to recover
attorneys’ fees incurred in this litigation in the total amount of $40,711.50
plus costs in the amount of $3373.92. 
Plaintiff contends he is entitled to an award of fees and costs per
Civil Code §1794(d).  
 
Defendant, in opposition to the
motion, argues Plaintiff’s claimed fees were unreasonable because Plaintiff
refused a reasonable repurchase offer by Defendant.  It argues the Laffey Matrix is inadmissible
to show Plaintiff’s attorney’s claimed hourly rate is reasonable, and contends
the rate is not reasonable.  Finally, it
contends the number of hours billed was unreasonable, both because much of the
work could have been performed by an administrative assistant and also because
the work is “canned” in nature.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends the
result of the settlement was better than the prior settlement offer, such that
rejection of the offer cannot be used as a basis to refuse an attorneys’ fees
award.  He contends both the hourly rate
and all hours billed were reasonable.  
 
b.     Settlement
Offer
Exhibit C to the opposition shows
that Defendant offered to repurchase the vehicle and pay $9500 in attorneys’
fees on 4/21/23, approximately six weeks after Plaintiff filed the
lawsuit.  No specific amount was provided
in the offer, which instead indicated the amount would be based on a formula,
which would include purchase price, transportation and manufacturer-install
options charges, finance charges, sales tax and other fees, and incident/consequential
damages.  On 6/30/23, Defense Counsel
wrote again to Plaintiff’s attorney, indicating she had not heard from
Plaintiff and inquiring about the status of any repurchase agreement.  
 
Exhibit D to the opposition shows
that, on 7/11/23, Defendant served a §998 offer to compromise, wherein it
offered to pay Plaintiff $49,363.48 plus attorneys’ fees, which amount would be
set by noticed motion.  It is not clear
whether Plaintiff failed to respond to the offer or actively rejected the
offer.
 
On 1/19/24, the parties settled the
matter at mediation for the total amount of $59,363 plus attorneys’ fees.
 
Plaintiff, in reply to the
opposition, cites Rock v. FCA US LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 682, 693
to support his position that a rejected §998 offer cannot be used as the basis
to refuse an attorneys’ fees award where the plaintiff ultimately obtains a
better result than the offer.  The case
is on all fours with this case.  The
plaintiff sued for lemon law violations. 
The defendant served a §998 offer to compromise in the amount of $81,000
plus attorneys’ fees.  The parties
thereafter settled for $89,500 plus attorneys' fees.  The trial court refused to award the fees
incurred between the §998 offer and the ultimate settlement, finding the offer
was reasonable, the ultimate settlement was not for much more than the offer,
and it was not reasonable to incur the additional fees.  The court of appeals reversed, finding it was
an error or law to refuse to award the fees incurred between the §998 offer and
the ultimate settlement if the ultimate settlement was in excess of the §998
offer.  Thus, the Court cannot refuse to
award the fees incurred after the §998 offer in this case, regardless of
whether the offer was reasonable, as the ultimate settlement was in excess of
the offer.
 
c.    
Hourly Rate  
Plaintiff supports is motion with
the declaration of his attorney, Michael Saeedian.  Counsel concedes the action was contingency,
as are all actions taken by his office. 
He declares he “bills his time” at the rate of $695/hour, and also bills
attorney Ostoia’s time at the rate of $695/hour.  He bills attorney Umer’s time at the rate of
$525/hour.  He bills law clerk Acosta’s
work at $250/hour.  Counsel supports the
rates with the Laffey Matrix, which is a summary of rates charged by
contingency fee attorneys.  
 
Defendant contends the matrix is
hearsay and not admissible.  Plaintiff,
however, cited various cases where the courts of appeal have allowed evidence
of the Laffey Matrix in determining a reasonable fee.  By way of example, in Tukes v. Richard (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 1, 17-18, the court of appeals held that the trial
court did not err in considering the Laffey Matrix, but also noted that trial
courts are not required to follow the Laffey Matrix.  
 
The Court finds the rates are
extremely high, especially because this was a garden variety lemon law
case.  The Court is reducing the rates to
a blended rate of $400/hour.
 
d.     Administrative Work 
Defendant cites several non-CA cases to support its position that time
billed for administrative work is not compensable as attorneys’ fees.  The Court reviewed the Rutter Guide on Civil
Trials and Evidence, doing a key word search for the word “administrative,” and
found no results.  Absent any on-point
California authority in this regard, the Court will not reduce the fees
expended on administrative work as requested.
 
e.    
“Canned”
Work 
The majority of Defendant’s argument is that Plaintiff is billing an
excessive number of hours for what is essentially “canned” work – work that is
repeated in connection with every lemon law case litigated.  The Court tends to agree.  The Court has many of these cases before it,
and is aware that the work done in the cases is redundant and should not be
billed anew in every case.  The Court is
inclined to reduce the billing by 1/3 in light of its finding that the billing
is padded and redundant with other cases. 

 
f.     
Conclusion
The total hours billed in this case
was 83.  At the blended rate of
$400/hour, that would be a fee of $33,200. 
When reduced by 1/3, the total fee awarded becomes $22,244.  
 
g.     Costs
The Court notes that the motion
also seeks recovery of costs.  Plaintiff
filed a memorandum of costs on 3/08/24. 
Any award of costs will be made in connection with the memorandum, not
this motion.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 