 Case Number:  23LBCV02364    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Bernald Rock filed this action against Defendants, Patricia
J. Danis, Successor Trustee of the Jean L. Davis Revocable Living Trush, Sati
AH, Inc., Castlehead, Inc., Jona Howe, and Vashti Clisby for damages arising
out of a real estate purchase agreement. 

 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is his First Amended Complaint, which
he filed on 2/29/24.  The FAC includes
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, fraud, quiet title, and negligence.  
 
The crux of the FAC is that Plaintiff agreed to purchase a piece of
property from Danis.  The property did
not come with a garage, but Danis also owned an adjoining property, which had a
five-car garage.  Danis had been unable
to sell the subject property without a garage, and therefore listed the
property with one of the garages from her adjoining property.  However, during escrow, Danis discovered she
could not extend the property line of the subject property to include the
garage, and therefore the parties agreed that the subject property would be
given a permanent easement over the subject garage.  The parties drafted an exclusive easement
agreement, which Defendant was to record with the escrow company prior to closing.  Escrow, however, determined there was a
problem with the declaration re: easement, and refused to record it.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants instructed
escrow to close despite the lack of declaration.  Escrow closed on 6/11/21, and thereafter
Plaintiff’s attorney learned of the problem and attempted to resolve it.  Danis signed a revised declaration to be
recorded, which both parties signed. 
Danis failed, however, to ever record the revised declaration, and ultimately
Danis’s real estate agent demanded Plaintiff vacate the garage, which Plaintiff
had been using since the close of escrow. 
Plaintiff learned that Danis, in the intervening time, had sold the
property to Defendant SATI.  In late
2022, Danis commenced harassing and bullying Plaintiff into removing his items
from the garage, which he ultimately did in January of 2023.  He filed this action on 12/08/23.  
 
Defendant Clisby represented Plaintiff during the subject sale
transaction.  Defendant Howe represented
Danis during the subject transaction. 
Defendant Castlehead was the escrow provider for the subject
transaction.  As noted above, Defendant
SATI purchased the property with the relevant garage from Defendant Danis.  
 
2.    
Demurrer 
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel, Ani Setian filed a declaration establishing the
attorneys met and conferred prior to the filing of the demurrer, but were
unable to agree on a resolution of the merits of the pleading challenge.  The demurrer is therefore ripe for
resolution.  
 
c.    
First
Cause of Action, Breach of Contract
Danis demurs to the first cause of
action, contending (a) Plaintiff failed to plead offer and acceptance because
his signature is not on either grand deed re: easement declaration upon which
he sues, and (b) Plaintiff alleges performance because he alleges he performed
all terms of the purchase agreement, but he failed to plead the purchase
agreement or allege its terms.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer,
contending the first grant deed would not have been signed by him because he
did not own either property at the time it was created, and the second grant
deed WAS signed by him, but he failed to retain a copy.  He contends Defendant’s signature on the
document is the relevant signature.  He
contends he need not attach the purchase agreement or plead its terms with
specificity because the terms of the purchase agreement are not relevant to the
claim.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends the
purchase agreement cannot be both the contract that she allegedly breached and
also irrelevant to the contract.  She
contends Plaintiff’s failure to provide a signed copy of any declaration shows
lack of mutual assent.  
 
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff at the pleading stage. 
Plaintiff has references the purchase agreement, but is not suing for
breach of the purchase agreement.  He is
suing for breach of the obligation to record the grant deed re: easement and
declaration, which represented the parties’ agreement re: Plaintiff’s right to
an easement over the subject garage.  Plaintiff
correctly notes that the first such declaration would not have contained his
signature, as it was transferring an easement from one property owned by Danis
to another property owned by Danis. 
Plaintiff also correctly notes that he alleged, at ¶22, that he signed
the second declaration, but did not retain a signed copy in his records.  This is sufficient, at the pleading stage, to
allege both parties signed and assented to the agreement.  Any remaining issues are evidentiary in
nature and not the proper subject of a pleading challenge.  
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is overruled.
 
d.    
Second Cause of Action, Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
The demurrer to the second cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing rises and falls with the demurrer to
the first cause of action for breach of contract.  The demurrer is therefore also overruled.
 
e.    
Third
Cause of Action, Fraud
The crux of Defendant’s demurrer to the fraud cause of action is that
Plaintiff failed to plead the cause of action with the requisite
specificity.  Plaintiff, in opposition to
the demurrer, contends he pled the cause of action with the requisite
specificity, and to the extent he did not, it is because Defendant has better
and more complete knowledge of the facts than he has.  
 
The Court again finds in favor of Plaintiff at the pleading stage.  The FAC clearly alleges the parties agreed to
recordation of the second declaration, but the defendants did not record the
declaration.  It is unclear which
defendant (Danis or her agent) chose not to record the declaration, but clearly
Danis and her agent would have better knowledge concerning who made that choice
than Plaintiff would have.  Danis argues,
in reply, that Plaintiff cannot show knowledge of falsity or intent.  These showings, however, can be presumed by
the fact that Danis, prior to curing the failure to record, sold the property
to a third party.  The demurrer to the
third cause of action is overruled.
 
f.     
Fourth
Cause of Action, Quiet Title
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for quiet title,
contending Plaintiff’s complaint admits the subject garage is currently owned
by SETI, and a cause of action for quiet title can only be asserted against the
owner of the property.  Plaintiff, in
opposition to the demurrer, contends the sale to SATI was fraudulent and, in
the event the sale is set aside, the cause of action will be properly and
necessarily pled against Danis.  
 
The fourth cause of action seeks an order permitting Plaintiff
permanent use of the subject garage based on the easement agreement between
Plaintiff and Danis.  While it is true
that Plaintiff alleges SATI currently owns the property and not Danis, the
Court finds there is no harm in pleading the cause of action against both of
them, as it is unclear whether their sale agreement will unravel as a result of
this litigation.  Additionally, at ¶¶28
and 29 of the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that, even though she had sold the
property to SATI, Danis continued to harass Plaintiff to move his belongings
out of the garage, which tends to show she was still asserting some sort of
right to possession of the garage at least at that time.  
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
3.    
Motion to Strike 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees and
punitive damages, as well as all related allegations.  Plaintiff agrees to strike the allegations
and prayer for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees in connection with the
second cause of action and the prayer for attorneys’ fees in connection with
the fourth cause of action.  The motion
to strike is granted without leave to amend as to those allegations and
portions of the prayer, which are deemed stricken as a result of this ruling.
 
Plaintiff correctly notes that the subject grant deed declaration upon
which he sues has an attorneys’ fees provision, and therefore the motion to
strike the prayer for attorneys’ fees is denied.  A well-pled cause of action for fraud
supports a claim for punitive damages, and therefore the motion to strike the
prayer for punitive damages is denied. 
All related allegations may also remain in the FAC.
 
4.    
Conclusion
The demurrer is overruled.  The
motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part as set forth fully
above.  Defendant must file an answer to
the FAC, with the subject allegations and portions of the prayer deemed
stricken, within ten days.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   