 Case Number:  23LBCV00720    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Brandi R. Joyce filed
this action against Defendant, Maria Rojas for damages arising out of an
automobile accident.  Plaintiff alleges
the accident caused her to suffer a miscarriage.  Defendant propounded a deposition subpoena
for production of business records on Plaintiff’s OBGYN, seeking production of:
Complete medical records and
radiology images from the first date of treatment to the present, including but
not limited to any records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or
electronically: documents, correspondence, correspondence from the patient or
patient's attorney, intake forms, medical reports, doctor's entries, nurse's
notes, medication administration records, office notes, progress reports, cardiology
reports, radiology reports, x-ray reports, MRI reports, CT reports, myelogram
reports, lab reports, pathology reports, monitor strips, physical therapy
records, occupational therapy records, case history, emergency records,
outpatient records, diagnosis and prognosis documentation, admit and discharge
records, notation(s) on any file folder, x-rays, MRl's, CT's, myelograms,
tomograms, MRA's, PET scans, CAT scans, fluoroscopy, discograms, EMG's, and
diagnostic studies. All emails between physicians and the patient regarding
physical complaints, symptoms, and treatment, including secure messages.
 
Plaintiff moves to quash the
subpoena, contending it is overbroad and invades her right to privacy.  Defendant opposes, arguing Plaintiff’s claim
that she suffered a miscarriage as a result of the accident supports discovery
of the records.  
 
For discovery purposes, information
is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence.  Davies v. Superior
Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.  These
rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery Colonial Life & Accident
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790).  
 
By filing a personal injury action,
plaintiffs place in issue their past and present physical and/or mental
conditions related to the injury sued upon. 
All medical and/or psychological records relating to the claimed
injuries are thus discoverable.  Evidence
Code §§ 996, 1016; Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 862–864.  Normally, information about medical
conditions entirely different from the injury sued upon is beyond the scope of
discovery.  However, medical records
pertaining to an unrelated condition are discoverable on a showing of “good
cause” if the condition is relevant to the issue of proximate causation.  Evidence Code §999; Slagle v. Superior Court
(1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1314–1315.  
 
As an initial note, Defendant
contends Plaintiff failed to adequately meet and confer prior to filing the
motion.  The Court has reviewed the
parties’ meet and confer correspondence. 
While Plaintiff could have been more thorough, the Court finds the
efforts were adequate, and will rule on the motion on its merits.
 
The Court finds the subpoena is
overbroad.  The subpoena, as drafted,
would include all OBGYN records, including those that pre-date Plaintiff’s
pregnancy.  While Defendant has the right
to discover facts and evidence relating to the pregnancy, in light of
Plaintiff’s allegation that she suffered a miscarriage as a result of the
accident, Defendant does not have the right to discover Plaintiff’s lifetime
gynecological history.  The motion to
quash is therefore granted.  Defendant
must serve a subpoena limiting the records to the duration of Plaintiff’s
pregnancy.  If Plaintiff believes other
reasonable restrictions should be placed on the new subpoena, the parties must
meet and confer in an attempt to resolve those issues without further court
intervention.  
 
Plaintiff does not seek sanctions
in connection with the motion.  Defendant
seeks sanctions in connection with the opposition.  The request for sanctions is denied, as the
motion is granted.  The Court finds both
parties took their positions in good faith, such that sanctions are not
appropriate.  
 
The Court reminds the parties that
there is an OSC re: appointment of a discovery referee on calendar concurrently
with the hearing on this motion.  The
parties have five additional discovery motions scheduled in this case.  The Court wishes to hear from the parties
about the nature of the additional motions and their efforts to resolve the
issues without the need for hearing.  The
Court will consider appointing a referee if it finds the issues presented are
complicated and/or unlikely to be resolved without the need for five additional
hearings.
 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing.