  Case Number:  23VECV03136    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



Mosey keyfman,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
WEST HILLS HOSPITAL DBA WEST
HILLS HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER AND DOES I -100,
  INCLUSIVE,
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 23VECV03136
 
ORDER
  GRANTING IN PART WEST HILLS HOSPITAL’S MOTION TO STRIKE



 


 
I.              
INTRODUCTION
On July
21, 2022, Plaintiff Moysey Keyfman (“Plaintiff”) was admitted to Defendant West
Hills Hospital (“West Hills”) and assigned to a 2-bed hospital room with
another patient who allegedly had Covid-19. Plaintiff alleges he was kept in
this room without any meaningful isolation protocols as required for his
safety. Five days later, Plaintiff tested positive for Covid-19, where he was
re-admitted to West Hills’ emergency room. Plaintiff alleges he suffered
respiratory and cardiac issues that were non-existent prior to his Covid-19
illness that was allegedly contracted during his hospitalization on July 21,
2022. Based on this set of facts, Plaintiff alleges two causes of action
against West Hills: (1) Medical Malpractice and (2) Elder Abuse. 
West Hills
now seeks to strike Plaintiff’s entire Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) or,
alternatively, to strike portions of Plaintiff’s SAC.
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On July 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Medical Malpractice, and (2)
Elder Abuse. 
On November
27, 2023, this Court overruled West Hills’ Demurrer as to the first cause of
action for medical malpractice but sustained with leave to amend its Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for elder abuse. 
On December
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
On May 14,
2024, this Court sustained West Hills’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC as to the
second cause of action for medical malpractice and denied West Hills’ Motion to
Strike.
On July 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed his SAC, alleging (1) Medical Negligence. 
On August 16,
2024, West Hills filed the instant Motion to Strike (“Motion”). 
On September
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
On October 4,
2024, West Hills filed its Reply. 
III.        
LEGAL
STANDARD
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).)
[1] The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id.
at § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
IV.         
ANALYSIS
This Court gave
Plaintiff ten days leave to amend his FAC after sustaining West Hills’ Demurrer
on May 14, 2024. (See Order dated May 14, 2024 (“Order”), pg. 10.) Plaintiff
did not file his SAC until July 18, 2024. (See SAC.) 
West Hills
first seeks to strike Plaintiff’s entire SAC for failure to timely amend. (See
Motion, pg. 6.) “If an amended pleading is filed after the time allowed, an
order striking the amended pleading must be obtained by noticed motion.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(i); see also Gitmed v. General Motors Corp.
(1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 824, 827.) While the Court expects its orders to be
followed, and while Plaintiff has failed to explain his almost two-month delay
in filing his SAC, the Court nonetheless finds it appropriate to exercise its
discretion due to the extreme nature of West Hills’ requested remedy. Moreover,
Plaintiff’s SAC did not try to cure the defect in the second cause of action,
which was the reason the Court sustained West Hills’s demurrer in the first
place; ultimately, Plaintiff only amended the first cause of action.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES West Hills’s Motion to Strike the on this ground.
 In the alternative, West Hills moves to strike
the following: “reckless and willful” (SAC, pg. 2, ¶ 8, line 13); “that at all
times while Plaintiff jointly occupied the hospital room with Patient-X,
Patient-X was a known Covid 19 patient with an active transmittable Covid-19
infection, including while Patient-X was continuously and repeatedly” (SAC, pg.
3, ¶ 14, lines 13-17); and “. . . recklessly . . . recklessly . . . .” (SAC,
pg. 5, ¶ 22, lines 6 & 8.)
West Hills argues
Plaintiff’s Paragraph 14 amendment was added to his first cause of action for
medical malpractice after this Court’s Order. Because this Court’s Order
did not contemplate also amending Plaintiff’s first cause of action, West
Hills argues Plaintiff’s amendment has not been drawn in conformity with an
order of this Court and should be stricken. (See Motion, pp. 6-8.) 
Plaintiff “recognizes
that this sentence was added to the Second Amended Complaint, without an order
allowing the amended language, and therefore, does not dispute striking the
portion of the sentence to which Defendant objects.” (Opposition, pp. 6-7.) 
The Court therefore
finds it appropriate to strike Plaintiff’s Paragraph 14 amendment. “[G]ranting
of leave to amend must be construed as permission to the pleader to amend the
cause of action which he pleaded in the pleading to which the demurrer has been
sustained.” (People v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785-786.) Plaintiff,
as he acknowledges, has added to Paragraph 14 despite the Court’s Order
providing no authority for him to do so; his amendment shall therefore be
stricken. 
The Court
also finds it appropriate to strike Plaintiff’s “reckless and willful” and “recklessly”
language in his SAC, Paragraphs 8 and 22. The Court’s Order previously denied
West Hills’ attempts to strike such language as it found the language supported
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for elder abuse. (See Order, pp.
9-10.) Now, however, Plaintiff only maintains his first cause of action for
medical malpractice and the addition of the words “reckless and willful” and “recklessly”
in Paragraphs 8 and 22 is superfluous—their inclusion is irrelevant to
maintaining a medical malpractice cause of action. 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS IN PART West Hills’ Motion and strikes Plaintiff’s SAC in
accordance with its analysis here. 
Plaintiff
shall file a third amended compliant on or before October 31, 2024. 
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART West Hills’ Motion and strikes Plaintiff’s
SAC in accordance with its above analysis. 
Plaintiff
shall file a third amended compliant on or before October 31, 2024. 
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      ­­­­­___________



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


