 Case Number:  22STCV17999    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Glenn v. Cand Rentals, LLC
22STCV17999
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Comply with Demand for Physical
Examination 
 
Tentative
 
The
motion to compel is granted.
 
The
request for sanctions is denied.
 
Background 
On June 1, 2022, Michele Glenn (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against C&D Rentals, Kevin Ciara, and Does 1 through 10 for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence arising out of an accident on July 20, 2020.
On December 9, 2022, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name C
& D Rentals, LLC as Doe 1.
On December 30, 2022, C & D Rentals, LLC, and Kevin Caira
(erroneously sued as Kevin Ciara) (collectively “Defendants”) filed an answer.
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel was relieved as counsel of
record.  Since that time, Plaintiff has been representing herself in pro
per.
On
September 5, 2024, Defendants filed this instant motion to compel Plaintiff to
comply with a demand for a physical examination.  Defendants also seek sanctions.
No
opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.220 provides that in a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court:
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied:
(1)  The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive.
(2)  The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.
(b)  A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court ….
(c)  
A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination.
(d)  A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand ….”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
Within 20 days of service of a demand for a physical
examination, the plaintiff to whom the demand is directed must respond in
writing and state that the plaintiff “will comply with the demand as stated,
will comply with the demand as specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will
refuse, for reasons specified in the response, to submit to the demanded
physical examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.230, subd. (a).)  Failure to serve
a timely response waives any objection to the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (a).)
If a plaintiff fails to respond to the demand for a
physical examination, Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240 provides that
the defendant “may move for an order compelling response and compliance with
[the] demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.420, subd. (b).)  No meet and confer
is required.
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with
a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section
2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to
include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has
engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s refusal to
submit to an Independent Medical Exam (“IME”) is unjustified as she has put her
physical condition in controversy by claiming that she sustained injuries
including lower back pain, neck pain, and shoulder and upper back pain as a
result of a July 20, 2022 motor vehicle accident. (Casey Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)
Plaintiff further stated to Defendants’ counsel that she had two recent
surgeries, a cervical surgery in April 2023 with Pranay Patel, M.D. of Ocean
Spine and a lumbar surgery in December 2023 with Erik C. Spayde, M.D. (Casey
Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff alleges that these injuries are directly attributed to
the subject accident that forms the basis of this litigation. 
Defendants served notice of the IME on July
10, 2024, scheduled with a board-certified neurosurgeon for August 20, 2024,
and repeatedly reminded Plaintiff of the appointment. (Casey Decl. ¶ 5.) Despite
these efforts, Plaintiff failed to respond or attend the exam. Defendants argue
that this refusal hinders their ability to fairly evaluate Plaintiff’s claims
and defend the case. Consequently, they seek to compel Plaintiff to comply with
the IME, arguing that the missed appointment caused them to incur fees and
additional costs for filing this motion.
 
The Court finds that
Defendants are entitled to a physical examination of Plaintiff under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.220, that Defendants properly served a demand on
Plaintiff, and that Plaintiff neither responded to the demand nor appeared for
the examination.  The motion to compel
compliance is granted.
 
The request for
sanctions is denied.  The applicable
section of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240,
subdivision (c), authorizes sanctions againt “any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel … compliance with a demand
for a physical examination.”  Here, Plaintiff
did not file an opposition.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Comply With the Demand for Physical
Examination. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Michelle Glenn to submit to a
physical examination by Dr. Tony Feuerman, on October __, 2024, at
_____ a.m./p.m., at 16133 Ventura Boulevard, Suite 1105, Encino, California, 91436.
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ request for sanctions.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 