  Case Number:  20STCV41357    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Palma
v. Avis Budget Group
20STCV41357
Defendant’s Motion to Bifurcate
Tentative
The
motion is DENIED without prejudice.
Background
On October
28, 2020, Pedro Cortez Palma and Tania Pacheco Cortez (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Avid Budget Group, Inc. and Avis Budget
Car Rental, LLC for (1) premises liability, (2) strict product liability, (3)
negligent product liability, (4) breach of implied and express warranties, (5)
negligence, and (6) loss of consortium for injuries Plaintiff Pedro sustained
from the automatic gate striking him on November 1, 2018.
 
On January
14, 2021, Avis Budget Group (“Defendant”) filed an answer and cross-complaint
against Roes 1 through 10. 
 
On
January 12, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint naming Fernando Valencia dba
Fernando’s Iron Works as Doe 31. Fernando Valencia was dismissed on June 6,
2022.
 
On July
11, 2022, Defendant amended the cross-complaint to name Luis F. Valencia as Roe
1.
 
On September 9,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to bifurcate. On
September 20, Plaintiff filed an opposition, and Defendant filed a reply on September
30.
 
Trial is set for
November 7, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action … or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)  The court has general discretion to order
certain issues tried before others “when the convenience of witnesses, the ends
of justice or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be
promoted thereby.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
598.)
Discussion 
Defendant moves to bifurcate the issues of
liability and damages at trial. (Rubin Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In cases assigned to the Personal Injury Hub,
the case will be tried by a different judge than the one assigned to rule on
this motion. The Court finds that because of the close relationship between
bifurcation motions and trial management, it is appropriate in this matter for
the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is warranted.
A motion to bifurcate is not a motion in
limine. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.57(c).) Nonetheless, as it relates to
management of the trial proceedings, a motion to bifurcate has certain
attributes that are similar to motions in limine. And, in cases assigned to the
Personal Injury Hub, the trial judge (not the judge in the Personal Injury Hub)
rules on all motions in limine. While this bifurcation request is not a motion
in limine, the logic of  having the trial
judge determine it here is similar. The request for bifurcation here appears to
be one for which the trial judge should make a discretionary determination
based on its role in managing the trial proceedings.
Accordingly, the Court rules that Defendant
may submit a motion for bifurcation at the time that motions in limine are filed.
Any other party may submit an opposition when oppositions to motions in limine
are filed. The Court orders that the bifurcation briefing be included in the
trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in limine filed in the case. If
there is any issue with regard to Rule of Court 3.57, Defendant or any other
party may direct the trial court to this order (which of course does not impose
any obligation on the trial judge with regard to ruling on the motion). 
Conclusion 
The Court DENIES without prejudice the motion
to bifurcate filed by Defendant Avis Budget Group.
Moving party to give notice.