 Case Number:  22STCV23537    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Chan v. Lyft  22STCV23537 Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Defendant Richard  Darrell Jones. Tentative The motion is denied. 

Background

On July 21, 2022, Lisa Chan and Kurt Selbach
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”),
Richard Darrell Jones (“Jones”), Jake Mungaray (“Mungaray”), and Does 1 through
50 for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence arising out of accident on
November 13, 2021, in which Plaintiffs allege that they were injured while
riding a tandem bicycle on Manhattan Beach Boulevard.

On September 12, 2022, Jones filed his answer
and a cross-complaint against Mungaray and Roes 1 through 50. 

On September 14, 2022, Lyft filed its answer. 

On October 7, 2022, Mungaray filed his answer
and cross-complaint against Jones.

On November 13, 2023, Jones filed this motion
for summary judgment as to Plaintiffs’ complaint. Plaintiffs did not file an
opposition to the motion, but on September 4, 2024, Mungaray filed an
opposition. Jones filed a reply on September 12, 2024, as well as objections to
some of Mungaray’s evidence.

The hearing was initially set for September 19,
2024, and was continued to allow Jones to address a minor procedural issue in
the initial filing.

Legal Standard

“The purpose
of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)

As to each
cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
850-851.)

A plaintiff or
cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is
no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)

The party
opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply
“rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)

Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)

Evidentiary Objections

Jones asserts four objections to the
Declaration of Jake Mungaray. Evidence presented in support of, or in
opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2
Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in
the papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and
sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)

The Court has considered each of the four
objections. They are overruled.

Discussion

The Court begins by addressing two threshold
issues raised in Jones’s reply papers.

First, Jones argues that the Court should grant
the motion because it is unopposed by Plaintiff, and Mungaray is not a party
against whom relief is sought. But the granting of a motion for summary
judgment filed by one of several defendants may have a direct effect on the substantive
rights of the other defendants. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (l).) And a moving
for summary judgment must show that the requirements for relief are satisfied
even in the absence of an opposition. (Jones cites California Rule of Court,
rule 8.45(a), but that rule applies to appeals, not proceedings in a trial
court.)

Second, Jones argues that Mungaray’s separate statement
is incomplete, omitting additional material facts that are referenced in his
opposition brief. The Court exercises its discretion to proceed to the merits
based on the papers submitted in support of, and in opposition to, the motion.

The Court now turns to the merits.

The accident at issue occurred on November 13,
2021, near the intersection of Manhattan Beach Boulevard and Highland Avenue.
(Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 1.) 

At the time of the accident, Defendant Jones
was the driver of a motor vehicle. (DSUMF, No. 2.) Defendant Mungaray was a
passenger, sitting in the right rear side (the passenger side) of the motor
vehicle. (DSUMF, Nos. 3-4.) There were two other passengers in back seat with
Mungaray. (Mungaray Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5.)

The motor vehicle stopped at a red light at the
intersection of Manhattan Boulevard and Highland Avenue. (Page Decl., Exh. C,
at 42:11-15.) According to Jones, Mungaray stated, “We’ll just get out here,”
and then Mungaray immediately opened the door, without giving Jones time to
respond. (Id., Exh. D, at 37:7-14 & Exh. E, at 45:2-4.) According to
Mungaray, he asked Jones, “Is it of if we just got out here?” (Mungaray Decl.,
¶ 5.) Jones looked back at Mungaray and said “Ok.” (Id., ¶¶ 5, 7.)

Plaintiffs were riding a tandem bicycle.
(DSUMF, No. 8.) The rear passenger door of the motor vehicle opened, and
Plaintiffs collided with the door, were knocked off the bicycle, and fell on to
the ground. (DSUMF, Nos. 9-10.)  

Based on this accident, Plaintiffs filed suit,
asserting causes of action for negligence. 

The basic elements of a
cause of action for negligence are the same: (1) the existence of a legal duty;
(2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Romero v. Los Angeles Rams
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 562, 567.) Defendant Jones brings this motion for summary
judgment, arguing (essentially): (1) that he did not breach any legal duty; and
(2) that as the driver of a motor vehicle, he is not legally responsible for
the negligence of his passenger.

Beginning with
the first issue, whether Jones himself breached any legal duty owed to
Plaintiffs, the general rule governing duty is set forth in Civil Code section
1714: “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful
acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of
ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person,
except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought
the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) This
establishes what the California Supreme Court has described as the “default
rule” that every person has a legal duty “to exercise, in his or her activities,
reasonable care for the safety of others.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at
p. 214.)

After carefully considering the evidence in the
record and the arguments of the parties. the Court concludes that there are
disputed issues of material fact that preclude the granting of Jones’s motion.

Viewing the evidence in the light most
favorable to the non-moving parties, and drawing all reasonable inferences in their
favor, a finder of fact could reasonably accept Mungaray’s version of the facts
and conclude that, before Mungaray open the door of the vehicle, he asked Jones
for permission, Jones looked back, and then Jones said “Ok.” (Mungaray Decl.,
¶¶ 5, 7.) That was unsafe, given that the vehicle was stopped at a red light in
traffic, and not in a safe location for a passenger to open a door (such as
directly next to a curb), and created an unreasonable risk of harm to members
of the public, including Plaintiffs. This version of the facts, if accepted by
the trier, would not absolve Mugaray of responsibility, but it could reasonably
provide a basis for the trier to apportion some blame to each of Jones and
Mungaray.

Of course, the finder of fact might also
reasonably accept Jones’s version of the facts. But on summary judgment, the
Court cannot weigh the evidence, resolve disputes, or predict what will happen
at trial. The Court must deny the motion where, as here, there are facts in the
record, and inferences that can be drawn from those facts, that would reasonably
support a determination in favor of the non-moving parties.

The decision in California Body and Trailer
Manufactures Corporation v. Albrecht (1971) 16 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1 (“Albrecht”),
upon which Jones relies, is not to the contrary. In Albrecht, the
Appellate Division of the Superior Court held that the driver of a vehicle did
not have “an absolute duty, amounting to strict liability, in connection with
the acts of” a passenger. (Id., at p. 4.) The court recognized that the
driver could be held liable for his own negligence, but there were no facts
present to support a finding of negligence by the driver. (Id., at pp.
3-4.) Here, in contrast, there are triable issues as to Jones’s own negligence.

Having determined that there are triable issues
as to Jones’s own negligence for his own conduct, the Court does not reach, and
need not reach, the issue of whether Jones could somehow be held responsible for
the negligence of Mungaray. Jones moves only for summary judgment, and triable
issues identified above preclude the granting of the motion.

The motion
for summary judgment is denied.

Conclusion

The Court DENIES the motion of Defendant Richard
Darrell Jones for summary judgment.

Moving Party is to give notice.   