 Case Number:  22STCV04480    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Franco v. First
Southern Baptist Church of Sylmar
22STCV04480
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Jose Soto Plasencia

Tentative
The motion to
compel is granted.
The request for
sanctions is denied.
Background
On February 4, 2022,
Plaintiff Maria Teresa Franco, individually and as successor-in-interest to
Arturo Franco Melendez (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against First Southern
Baptist Church of Sylmar, Jose Soto Plasencia (“Soto Plasencia”), and Does 1 through
50 for motor vehicle negligence, premises liability, general negligence, and survival
action.
On May 31, 2022, Sylmar
First Southern Baptist Church Sylmar, California (erroneously sued as First
Southern Baptist Church of Sylmar) (“First Southern”) filed an answer to the
complaint.  On the same day, First
Southern also filed a cross-complaint against Soto Plasencia, Iglesia Cristiana
Altar De Dios (“Iglesia Cristiana”), California Southern Baptist Convention
(“California Convention”), United Bethany Baptist Bible Church of California
(“United Bethany”), and Roes 1 through 50. 

On December 15, 2022, First
Southern amended its cross-complaint to name Henry Meza (“Meza”) as Roe 1.
Subsequently, the Court, at
the request of First Southern, dismissed without prejudice all causes of action
in First Southern’s cross-complaint against Iglesia Cristiana, California
Convention, United Bethany, and Meza. 
The only remaining cross-defendants on First Southern’s cross-complaint
are Soto Plasencia and Roes 2 through 50.
On May 24, 2023, default was
entered against Soto Plasencia on First Southern’s cross-complaint.
On Plaintiff’s ex parte
application heard on January 23, 2024, the Court continued the trial date from
February 22, 2024, to June 25, 2024.  At
that time, the Court did not make an order extending any discovery deadlines
but ruled that either party could seek such relief through a noticed motion.
On February 27, 2024, the
Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery in part and ruled that the
deposition of Soto Plasencia could be taken up until 30 days before the June 25
trial date.
On May 23, 2024, the Court
approved the stipulation of the parties and continued the trial date to January
23, 2025.  Discovery remained closed,
except as to the deposition of Soto Plasencia and expert discovery.
On August 20,
2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Soto
Plasencia, without prejudice, on procedural grounds.
The next day, on August 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this motion to compel deposition of Jose Soto Plasencia.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a person
who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  Personal service of the deposition
subpoena on the nonparty is required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“A deposition
subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only the attendance and
testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of business records for
copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of the deponent, as well
as the production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
“If a deponent
on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails to attend a deposition or
refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may impose on the deponent the
sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt and an action for civil
damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the court determines that
the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that
the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the
deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d),
defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond
to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id.,
§ 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except
as specifically modified by the Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1985 through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision
(a), provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), states, in relevant part,
that in connection with an order directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing
it, or modifying it, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
“must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
Plaintiff brings
this motion to compel the deposition of Jose Soto
Plasencia.  Mr. Soto Plasencia is named
as a defendant and a cross-defendant, but he has not appeared.  Accordingly, for discovery purposes, Mr. Soto
Plasencia is treated as a nonparty (at least until such time, if any, that he appears
in this action).
Recognizing that Mr. Soto Plasencia must be
treated as a nonparty, Plaintiff issued a subpoena for his deposition and
arranged for him to be personally served. 
(Leonardo Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. 1.) 
Once the subpoena was personally served on Mr. Soto Plasencia, he had an
obligation to comply by attending the deposition and answering questions under
oath.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).)  Mr. Soto Plasencia, however, did not comply with the subpoena, did not attend his deposition, and did not answer
questions under oath.  (Leonardo Decl., ¶¶
6-7, 11 & Exh. 2.) 
Plaintiff now seeks an order compelling Mr. Soto Plasencia
to comply with the subpoena.  As Mr. Soto
Plasencia is treated as a nonparty for discovery purposes, California Rule of Court,
rule 3.1346, requires personal service of the motion on Mr. Soto
Plasencia.  According to the proof of
service filed with the Court on September 3, personal service was effected on
Mr. Soto Plasencia on August 27, 2024.
The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently shown
that Mr. Soto Plasencia was properly noticed with a deposition subpoena and
failed to appear or provide written objections.  The motion to compel is granted. 
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1).  Section 2025.450, however, applies only to
party depositions, and, as noted above, at this point Mr. Soto Plasencia has
not appeared and therefore is treated as a nonparty.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480
address all depositions (including nonparty depositions), and subdivision (j)
provides for sanctions, but only against a “party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel,” and here Mr. Soto
Plasencia did not oppose the motion.  Similarly,
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides authority to
impose a sanction against a nonparty deponent, but only if a motion to compel
is “made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.”
In sum, the Legislature has provided for sanctions
against nonparty deponents in other circumstances but has declined to authorize
sanctions in this situation.  Accordingly,
the Court must deny Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of nonparty Jose Soto
Plasencia.
The
Court ORDERS Jose Soto Plasencia to appear for deposition and answer questions
under oath on October __, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., at 1122 Wilshire Boulevard, Los
Angeles, California, 90017.
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
Plaintiff is ordered
to give notice, including notice by personal service on Mr. Soto Plasencia.