 Case Number:  22STCV28329    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Arroyo v. Gonzalez 
22STCV28329
Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
(Set One)
Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One)
Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set One) 
Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Requests for
Admission (Set One)
Tentative
The Court GRANTS the motions to compel Defendant to provide
further responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production.  
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to
compel Defendant to provide further responses to requests for admission.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions.
Background
On August 31, 2022, Plaintiff Angelica
Arroyo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Leonardo Moreno
Gonzalez (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle and
general negligence arising out of a car accident on December 10, 2021, at or near the intersection of
Lankershim Boulevard and Tuxford Street in Los Angeles.  
 
On October 28, 2022, Defendant filed an
answer.  
 
Before the Court and set for hearing on
October 4, 2024, are four motions to compel further responses filed on August
14, 2024.  Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions.
 
No opposition has been filed.  
 
The parties participated in an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC) on September 17, 2024, but the disputes were not
resolved.
 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion
to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant to provide further
responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production (Set One), and Requests for
Admission (Set One).
There is a long procedural history with regard to these
discovery requests and the pending motions. 

Plaintiff propounded these discovery requests in November
2022.  (Allton Decls., ¶ 2.)
After a lengthy delay, Defendant served verified responses on
November 2, 2023.  (Id., Exhs. A.)  Plaintiff contended that the responses were
not code compliant and sent correspondence outlining the deficiencies to
Defendant.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-6 & Exhs. B-C.)  Counsel communicated about a potential
extension of time to file a motion to compel to January 8, 2024, but the extension
was never confirmed.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-10 &
Exhs. D-E.)
On December 19 and 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed four motions to
compel further responses.  The hearings
were scheduled for February 28 and 29 and March 7, 2024.   Because
there had been no IDC, the Court, on its own motion, continued the hearings to
May 1, 2024.  Plaintiff subsequently
rescheduled the hearings to June 20 and 21, 2024.
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed four amended motions to compel
further responses.  These were set for
hearing on the June 20 and 21 dates.
On June 20 and 21, 2024, the Court noted that there still had not
been an IDC and continued the hearings, on its own motion, to August 22, 2024.
Plaintiff reserved an IDC scheduled for July 17, 2024.  The Court, on its own motion, continued the
IDC to August 7, 2024.  On August 7,
Defendant appeared but Plaintiff did not. 
The IDC was placed off calendar.
Plaintiff subsequently rescheduled the hearings to September 18
and 19, 2024.
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed four second amended
motions to compel.  These were set for
hearing on the September 18 and 19 dates.
Plaintiff
reserved an IDC scheduled for September 17, 2024.  The parties participated in an IDC on September
17, but the disputes were not resolved. 
The Court, on its own motion, continued the hearings to October 4, 2024.
That
brings us to the dispute before the Court.
Timeliness
As a
threshold matter, Defendant argued at the IDC (and the Court presumes that
Defendant still argues this, although no opposition was filed) that all four
motions are time barred.  Defendant explained
at the IDC that the verified discovery responses were served on November 2,
2023, but these motions were not filed and served until August 14, 2024, well
beyond the 45-day period to serve a motion to compel further responses under the
Civil Discovery Act.
This
argument has some initial appeal, but it does not withstand further scrutiny.  Plaintiff did file and serve timely motions
to compel further responses on December 19 and 20, 2023.  Those motions were initially set for hearing in
February and March 2024.  The hearing
dates have been continued multiple times – all the way up to October 4, 2024 –
but the motions were never ruled on, never withdrawn, and never placed off
calendar.  The motions remain pending.
To be
sure, Plaintiff filed amended motions (and then second amended motions), but there
is nothing wrongful or improper about amending a motion between the initial
filing and the hearing date.  That is
particularly true when a long period of time elapses between filing and the
hearing date (for any reason).  
As Plaintiff
timely filed and served these motions, and these motions (as amended) remain
pending, the Court finds that the motions are not barred by the 45-day rule of
the Civil Discovery Act.
The Court
now turns to the merits of the four motions.
Form Interrogatories
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories 9.1, 9.2, 12.3, 14.1, 15.1, 16.6, and 16.9.  The Court has reviewed the interrogatories and
the responses and rules that the responses are not code compliant.  The motion to compel further responses to the
form interrogatories is granted.
Special Interrogatories
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories
Nos. 14 and 15.  The Court has reviewed
the interrogatories and the responses and rules that the responses are not code
compliant.  The motion to compel further
responses to the special interrogatories is granted.
Requests for Production
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Production Nos. 1 through 41.  The Court
has reviewed the requests and the responses and rules that the responses are
not code compliant.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2031.210-.230.)  The motion to
compel further responses to the requests for production is granted.
Requests for Admission
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Admission Nos. 4-7, 9, 11-12, 17, and 21-22. 
The Court has reviewed the requests and the responses.
The Court rules that the responses to Requests for Admission
Nos. 4-7, 9, 12, and 17 are code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subds. (b)(3) & (c).)  The motion to compel further responses to
these requests is denied.
The Court rules that the responses to Requests for Admission
Nos. 11, 21, and 22 are not code compliant. 
Although the responses are in proper form, the requests ask Defendant to
admit or deny matters that are within his own personal knowledge; Defendant either
has or does not have such knowledge, and he must respond accordingly.  The motion to compel further responses to
these requests is granted.
Sanctions
The requests for sanctions are denied.  In connection with these motions to compel
further responses, the Legislature has authorized sanctions against “any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310,
subd. (h); & 2033.290, subd. (d).)  Here,
Defendant has not opposed any of these motions.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the motions to compel Defendant to provide
further responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production.  
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to
compel Defendant to provide further responses to requests for admission.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide further verified responses,
without objection, that are code complaint to Form Interrogatories 9.1, 9.2, 12.3,
14.1, 15.1, 16.6, and 16.9 within 10 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide further verified responses,
without objection, that are code complaint to Special Interrogatories Nos.
14-15 within 10 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide further verified responses,
without objection, that are code complaint to Requests for Production Nos. 1-41
within 10 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide further verified responses,
without objection, that are code complaint to Requests for Admission Nos. 11,
21, and 22 within 10 days of notice.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions.
Moving party to give notice.