  Case Number:  24VECV01659	    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 
 




The
  Marshall Haraden Group, Inc,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 Westlake Well Being Properties, LLC;
  Argonaut Insurance Company, and Does 1 to 25
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
        24VECV01659                                      107




COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:     
 
Motion
  to Confirm Arbitration Award



(1) Deny Petition; (2) Deny
Cross-Petition.

I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
Respondent Westlake Well Being Properties
(“Respondent”) holds the ground lease and operates the Four Seasons Hotel in
Westlake Village. (Interim Arbitration Award p. 2.) On or about April 29, 2022,
Petitioner the Marshall Haraden Group (“Petitioner”) entered a written
agreement (the “Agreement”) with Respondent where Petitioner would undergo a
construction project at the Four Seasons Hotel (the “project”). (Interim
Arbitration Award p. 2.) The Agreement contained an arbitration
provision. (Complaint ¶ 11.) The
project was delayed, and the parties submitted disputes over responsibility for
the delays and associated costs to an arbitrator. (Interim Arbitration Award p.
2.)
 
On July 16, 2024, the arbitrator issued
an Interim Arbitration Award that found Respondent owed Petitioner
$2,399,755.80. (Interim Arbitration Award pp. 12-13.) The arbitrator also found
that Petitioner was entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs, directed Petitioner
to submit evidence of attorneys’ fees and taxable costs, and directed
Respondent to serve a written response. (Interim Arbitration Award pp. 11-12.)
 
On September 6, 2024, the arbitrator
issued its Final Award that granted Petitioner attorneys’ fees and costs (the
“Award”). (Final Award p. 4.) The arbitrator issued an Amended Final Award on
September 10, 2024, to correct a typographical error. (Amended Final Award.)
The Amended Final Award granted Petitioner $471,514 in attorneys’ fees and
$137,660.36 in costs. (Amended Final Award p. 4.)
 
On September 30, 2024, Petitioner filed a
petition to confirm the arbitration award (the “Petition”). On October 8, 2024,
Respondent filed an opposition and cross-petition to correct or vacate the
contractual arbitration award (the “Cross-Petition”).  On October 11, 2024, Petitioner filed an
opposition to Respondent’s Cross-Petition. On October 18, 2024, Petitioner
filed a reply to Respondent’s opposition and Respondent filed a reply in
support of its Cross-Petition.
 
II.             
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Respondent requests this court take judicial notice of:
 
1.     The
operative American Arbitration Association Construction Industry Arbitration
Rules and Mediation Procedures, in effect from July 1, 2015, through March 1,
2024. (Ex. 1.)
 
2.     The
American Arbitration Association Construction Industry Arbitration Rules and Mediation
Procedures in effect from March 1, 2024, to the present. (Ex. 2.)
 
This
court grants Respondent’s requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452(h).)
 
III.           
THE
ARGUMENTS
 
A.   
The
Petition
 
Petitioner requests this court confirm
the Award and enter judgment according to it. (Petition p. 3.) 
 
B.   
The
Cross-Petition and Respondent’s Opposition to the Petition
 
Respondent filed a Cross-Petition
requesting this court correct or vacate the Award. (Cross-Petition p. 3.)
Respondent argues the arbitrator exceeded his authority by awarding attorneys’
fees “based solely on a [American Arbitration Association (“AAA”)] rule
relating to administrative fees, travel fees, witness fees, and arbitrator
fees, nothing to do with attorneys’ fees.” (Memorandum p. 1.) Respondent
further argues that “the arbitrator exceeded his power in awarding attorneys’
fees to [Petitioner] when the arbitrator expressly stated that the contract
under which arbitration was initiated did not contain a provision authorizing
such fees.” (Memorandum p. 1.) 
 
In opposition to Petitioner’s Petition,
Respondent argues this court should deny Petitioner’s Petition because it seeks
to bind Argonaut Insurance Company, who was not a party to the arbitration, and
the Petition does not accurately reflect the Award because it fails to mention
the Award’s injunctive relief. (Memorandum pp. 8-9.)
 
C.   
Petitioner’s
Opposition to the Cross-Petition and Reply to Respondent’s Opposition to the
Petition 
 
In opposition to Respondent’s
Cross-Petition, Petitioner argues the arbitrator’s award is final and binding
and this court lacks authority to vacate or correct the Award. (Opposition to
Cross-Petition pp. 2-4.) Petitioner further argues that the AAA Construction
Industry Rules, Rule 49(d) allows the arbitrator to award attorneys’ fees and
the parties agreed to arbitrate pursuant to those rules. (Opposition to
Cross-Petition p. 5.) 
 
In reply to Respondent’s opposition to
the Petition, Petitioner argues the injunctive relief is moot because
Petitioner “resolved all mechanics lien matters without exception.” (Reply to
Opposition of Petition p. 2.) Petitioner further argues that Respondent does
not have standing to argue Argonaut should not be found by the arbitration
judgment, “Argonaut’s liability is the same as [Respondent’s] to the extent of
the penal sum of the bond[,]” and “it is harmless error to include Argonaut.”
(Reply to Opposition of Petition p. 3.) 
 
D.   
Respondent’s
Reply to Petitioner’s Opposition to the Cross-Petition 
 
In reply to Petitioner’s opposition to
the Cross-Petition, Respondent argues the arbitrator exceeded his authority by
not analyzing the AAA attorneys’ fees rule, and “did note there was not a
direct fee clause in the underlying contract, but did not make any findings
whatsoever as to whether both parties requested an award of fees (which
[Respondent] had not) or whether fees were authorized by any law.” (Reply to
Opposition to Cross-Petition p. 3.) Respondent further argues this court may
vacate the award under the Agreement and California Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1286.2 and 1286.6. (Reply to Opposition to Cross-Petition p. 3.)
Finally, Respondent argues that the arbitrator exceeded his power by not
following the AAA rules and Petitioner’s Petition is improper because it seeks
to bind a nonsignatory and nonparticipant to the arbitration proceedings.
(Reply to Opposition to Cross-Petition pp. 4-5.) 
 
IV.           
PETITION
DISCUSSION
 
A.    Service of the Petition and Notice of
Hearing
 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an
award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the
award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) It must be served between ten days and four
years from the date the award was served on the petitioner. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 1288 & 1288.4.) The other party may respond to the petition. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.2.)
 
Pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure,
section 1290.4, “A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and
place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is
based shall be served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for
the service of such petition and notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §1290.4(a).)  
 
But “if the arbitration agreement does
not provide the manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon
whom service is to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and
has not previously been served in accordance with this subdivision . . .
Service within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the
service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4(b)(1).)
 
Here, the arbitration provision does not appear to provide a
manner in which service shall be made. (Ex. 3 pdf. p. 179.) Petitioner served
Respondent with the Petition, Notice of Hearing, and other supporting documents
by personal service on September 30, 2024. (Proof of Personal Service filed
09/30/24.) September 30, 2024, is between ten days and four years from
September 10, 2024. (Ex. 8(c) p. 4.) Further, service by personal service is a
permissible method of service. (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10.)
 
Accordingly,
service was proper.
 
B.   
Filing Requirements
 
A
petition to confirm arbitration award must:
 
(a)  
Set forth the
substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the
petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement.
 
(b)  
Set forth the names of
the arbitrators.
 
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the
written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
 
Here, although Petitioner did not attach
to the Petition a copy of the agreement to arbitrate, the Petition states that
the arbitration provision provided that “If the parties have
selected arbitration as the method for binding dispute resolution in the
Agreement, any Claim subject to, but not resolved by, mediation shall be
subject to arbitration which, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise,
shall be administered by the ADR Services, Inc. or Signature Resolution
Services, Inc. in accordance with the American Arbitration.” (Petition p. 2.) 
Accordingly, the Petition set forth the substance of the arbitration
agreement. The Petition also attaches copies of the Interim
Arbitration Award, Final Award, and Amended Final Award, which identify the
arbitrator as Bruce A. Edwards. (Ex. 8(c).) 
 
 
Accordingly, the petition is in
compliance with section 1285.4’s filing requirements.
 
C.   
Service
of the Arbitration Award
 
“The neutral
arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party to the
arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided in the
agreement.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 1283.6.)
 
The Interim
Arbitration Award was served to Respondent by Certified U.S. Mail and
Electronic Mail on July 17, 2024. (Ex. 8(c) pdf p. 28.) The Final
Award was served to Respondent by Certified U.S. Mail and Electronic Mail on
September 6, 2024. (Ex. 8(c) pdf p. 14.) Finally, the Amended Final Award was
served to Respondent by Certified U.S. Mail and Electronic Mail on September
10, 2024. (Ex. 8(c) pdf p. 9.)
 
D.    Costs
and Interest
 
The court
shall award costs upon any Petition to confirm a fee arbitration award. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1293.2.) Interest
accrues on a money judgment at a rate of 10 percent per annum from the date of
entry of judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 685.010(a), 685.020(a).)   
 
Petitioner states it is seeking interest at the rate of 10% per
year and costs “according to proof.” (Petition p. 3.) But Petitioner has not
identified its costs or provided an interest calculation. Accordingly, this
court is unable to calculate Petitioner’s costs and interest award.
 
V.             
RESPONDENT’S
OPPOSITION ARGUMENTS AND CROSS-PETITION
 
A.   
Attorneys’
Fees
 
The parties dispute whether the
arbitrator exceeded the scope of its authority by granting Petitioner
attorneys’ fees. (Final Award p. 4.) The arbitrator stated that Petitioner was
the prevailing party, and “[t]here does not appear to be a direct ‘Prevailing
Party’ attorney fee clause in the Prime Contract. Yet, the parties agreed that
the arbitration be conducted pursuant to the American Arbitration Association
Construction Industry Arbitration Rules.” (Award p. 2.)  The arbitrator cited American Arbitration Association
Rule R-49(c) (“Rule R-49(c)”), which states: “(c) In the final
award, the arbitrator shall assess fees, expenses, and compensation as provided
in Rules R-56, R-57, and R-58. The arbitrator may apportion such fees, expenses
and compensation among the parties in such amounts as the arbitrator deems is
appropriate.” (Final Award p. 2.) The arbitrator then stated he “agree[d] with
[Petitioner] that this language alone allows for the recovery of reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs.” (Final Award p. 2.)
 
Respondent argues the attorneys’ fees
award was improper because Rule R-49(c) references Rules R-56, R-57, and R-58,
which “do not permit [the arbitrator] to award attorneys’ fees” but only allow
the arbitrator to apportion administrative fees, witness fees, travel expenses,
and arbitrator’s fees. (Memorandum in Opposition p. 6.) 
 
Petitioner argues the arbitrator’s award
is final and binding and this court lacks authority to vacate or correct the
Award. (Opposition to Cross-Petition pp. 2-4.) Petitioner also argues that the
arbitrator did not exceed its authority because AAA Construction Industry
Rules, Rule 49(d) provides authority for the arbitrator to award attorneys’
fees and “[t]he fact of whether [the arbitrator] misapplied Rule 49(c),
misquoted and meant to refer to Rule 49(d), and does not reference the statute
is irrelevant” because “it is well settled that 
‘arbitrators do not exceed their powers merely because they assign an
erroneous reason for their decision.’” (Opposition to Petition pp. 5, 8.)
Petitioner also argues the arbitrator was authorized to grant Petitioner
attorneys’ fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 8818. (Opposition to
Cross-Petition pp. 6-7.)
 
“It is well settled that ‘arbitrators do
not exceed their powers merely because they assign an erroneous reason for
their decision.’ [Citations] A contrary holding would permit the exception to
swallow the rule of limited judicial review; a litigant could always contend
the arbitrator erred and thus exceeded his powers.” (Moncharsh v. Heily
& Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 28.) “[A]rbitrators do not exceed their
powers ‘merely by rendering an erroneous decision on a legal or factual issue,
so long as the issue was within the scope of the controversy submitted to the
arbitrators.’” (Taylor v. Van-Catlin Construction (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
1061, 1066.) “[A] party may challenge an arbitration award if the relief
granted was in violation of ‘specific restrictions’ (1) ‘in the arbitration
agreement’; (2) ‘the submission’ of the claim to the arbitrator; or (3) ‘the
rules of arbitration.” (Emerald Aero, LLC v. Kaplan (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th
1125, 1139-1140.) “[T]he court shall vacate the [arbitration] award if the
court determines . . . [t]he arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award
cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2(a)(4).)
 
Rule 49(d) states that “[t]he award of
the arbitrator may include . . . an award of attorneys’ fees if all parties
have requested such an award or it is authorized by law or their arbitration
agreement.” (Ex. 2 p. 33.)  In
its Interim Arbitration Award, the arbitrator discussed section 8818, stating,
“Westlake argues that TMG is not entitled to prompt payment penalties claimed
pursuant to Civil Code Section 8818 because there is a good faith dispute
regarding the amounts withheld by Westlake. In support of its position Westlake
cites applicable case law applying an objective standard to determine whether a
good faith dispute exists. TMG counters that Westlake failed to timely and in
good faith process and approve substantial delay claims and change orders effecting
both the substantial completion date and contract adjustment. Conversely
Westlake has demonstrated a good faith belief that TMG failed in its
responsibility to provided required Project schedules, buy out subcontractors
in a timely manner and generally failed in Project performance. “ (Interim
Arbitration Award p. 26.) 
Accordingly, it appears that the arbitrator rejected finding
Respondent wrongfully withheld payment here - which is Petitioner’s purported
basis for granting it attorneys’ fees under section 8818 and Rule 49(d).
Instead, the arbitrator appears to have given Petitioner attorneys’ fees simply
because Petitioner was the prevailing party. (Final Award p. 2.) However, even
if the court did not make the findings under section 8818, section 8818
authorized the arbitrator to order attorneys’ fees. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 8818
states that “If an owner or direct contractor does not make
a retention payment within the time required by this article . . . In an action for
collection of the amount wrongfully withheld, the prevailing party is entitled
to costs and reasonable attorney's fees.”
 
Respondent argues Emerald Aero, LLC v.
Kaplan (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1129 applies here. In Emerald Aero,
LLC, the agreement required arbitration under the AAA rules. (Emerald
Aero, LLC v. Kaplan, supra, 9 Cal.App.5th at p. 1131.) The AAA rules
required the party to “specify in his or her initial filing ‘the relief sought
and the amount involved,’ and require[d] the parties to provide written notice
of any changes to this claim information.” (Id. at p. 1140.) If a party
changed or increased its claim, the AAA rules required “at least 14 days’
notice and an arbitrator’s consent before a new or different claim may be
submitted.” (Id. at p. 1141.) “[P]laintiffs changed their claim by
adding a punitive damages request less than 24 hours before the arbitration
hearing.” (Id.) The Court of Appeal noted that “[u]nder both
subdivisions of AAA rule R-6, the rule requires written notice before a party
could materially add to his or her arbitration claim, and an arbitrator has no
authority to award amounts for a new punitive damages claim without this
notice.” (Id.) Plaintiffs argued they provided reasonable notice by
emailing a copy to Defendant the day before the arbitration hearing. (Id.)
The Court of Appeal stated that was insufficient under the rule. (Id.)
The Court then held that “[g]iven the lack of fair notice, the Arbitrator’s
decision to accept this claimed amount fell outside the Arbitrator’s
authority.” (Id. at 1142.)
 
This case is distinguishable from Emerald
Aero, LLC. In Emerald Aero, LLC, the party did not comply with the
AAA rule requiring notice if a party changed or increased its claim, so the
arbitrator had no authority to award punitive damages. In contrast, here, the
arbitrator had authority under Rule 49(d) and Code of Civil Procedure section
8818 to award Petitioner attorneys’ fees, the arbitrator merely cited the wrong
rule and did not make factual findings regarding the Section 8818 attorneys’
fees award in its Amended Final Award. 
“It is well settled that ‘arbitrators do not exceed their powers merely
because they assign an erroneous reason for their decision.” (Moncharsh v.
Heily & Blasé, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 28.)  
Accordingly, although the arbitrator
assigned an erroneous reason for his decision to award attorneys’ fees, the
arbitrator did not exceed his authority.
 
B.   
Argonaut
Insurance Company
 
Respondent argues Petitioner’s petition
improperly seeks to bind Argonaut Insurance Company, who was not a party to the
arbitration. (Memorandum p. 9.) Petitioner argues that because Argonaut
Insurance Company “issued the Mechanics Release Bond thus releasing real
property of the lien. Argonaut’s liability is the same as
[Respondent’s] to the extent of the penal sum of the bond. Given the findings
and award against [Respondent], Argonaut would have no defense, and thus
including Argonaut in the judgment would amount to harmless error.” (Reply to
Opposition p. 3.)
 
An arbitration agreement “cannot bind
nonsignatories, absent a judicial determination that the nonsignatory falls
within the limited class of third-parties who can be compelled to arbitrate.” (Benaroya
v. Willis (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 462, 467.) In Benaroya v. Willis,
the arbitrator found a party was the alter ego of another party and found the
third party, who was a nonsignatory to the arbitration agreement, liable for
the damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs. 
(Id.)  The trial court
granted the petition to confirm the award. (Id.) The Court of Appeal
reversed, holding that the arbitrator could not “determine whether a
nonsignatory to the arbitration agreement c[ould] be compelled to arbitrate.” (Id.)

 
“Notice and an opportunity to be heard
are essential ingredients to a fair hearing, and these principles apply to
arbitration hearings.” (Emerald Aero, LLC v. Kaplan, supra, 9
Cal.App.5th at p. 1142.) Under California Code of Civil Procedure section
1287.2, “The court
shall dismiss the proceeding under this chapter as to any person named as a
respondent if the court determines that such person was not bound by the
arbitration award and was not a party to the arbitration.”
 
Here, only Respondent and Petitioner
participated in the arbitration proceedings. (Amended Final Award p. 1.) Argonaut
Insurance Company was not a party to the arbitration, and nothing indicates it
was bound by the arbitration award. Accordingly, this court dismisses the
proceeding as it relates to Argonaut Insurance Company. 
 
C.   
Injunctive
Relief
 
Respondent argues the Petition wrongfully
omits the Award’s requirement that Petitioner dismiss its mechanics lien,
negotiate lien releases with all subcontractors who recorded liens and hold
Respondent harmless from all previously filed lien amounts. (Cross-Petition p.
9.) Petitioner argues the injunctive relief provision in the Interim Award is
moot because it has resolved all mechanics lien matters. (Reply to Opposition
p. 2.)
 
This court finds that the injunctive
relief was part of the arbitrator’s Interim Award and should have been included
in the Petition. (Interim Arbitration Award p. 10.)
 
VI.           
CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, because the arbitrator did not exceed its authority in
granting Petitioner attorneys’ fees, this court denies Respondent’s
Cross-Petition.
 
This
court also denies, without prejudice, Petitioner’s Petition because it seeks to
bind a third-party and omits the injunctive relief ordered by the arbitrator. 
Dated:  October 25, 2024                                                                   _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                           Judge of the
Superior Court