

Hearing Date:             March 21,
2024
Case Name:                Harran
v. DCH Torrance Imports Inc.  
Case No.:                    23STCV28828
Motion:                       Motion
to Strike
Moving Party:             Defendant DCH Torrance Imports Inc. 

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Ihab Harran

Tentative Ruling:      The motion to strike is denied. 

             
            This is an employment discrimination
action. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1.) sexual harassment, (2.)
battery, (3.) retaliation under FEHA, (4.) violation of Labor Code section
1102.5, (5.) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment, and (6) wrongful
termination.
 
Defendant DCH Torrance Imports Inc. (DCH) moves to strike the request
for punitive damages from the Complaint. Plaintiff Ihab Harran (Plaintiff) opposes
the motion.
 
The motion to strike portions of the Complaint is denied. 
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice of Exhibit A-B is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d), (h).)
 
Legal Standard for Motion to
Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant DCH moves to strike the
request for punitive damages in the Complaint against DCH on the grounds that Plaintiff
has failed to plead the request for these damages with the heightened
particularity required for pleading punitive damages against a corporate
employer. 
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “ ‘Something more
than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.
There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or “malice,”
or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a
conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct
may be called willful or wanton.’” (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [quoting Prosser, Law of
Torts].) Specific intent to injure is not necessary for a showing of malice—it
is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so reckless as to
evince malice or conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925) 71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Further,
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), provides as follows: “An employer
shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was
personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” 
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges that DCH Torrance’s General Manager was Charlie Park (Park),
“whose role was to oversee the operations” of DCH Torrance. (Compl., ¶ 6.) Further,
the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was sexually harassed by Defendant Haroon
on multiple occasions, which included instances of unwanted touching. (Compl.,
¶¶ 8-13.) Plaintiff allegedly reported this harassment to Park “on or about
September 26, 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) The Complaint alleges no investigation was
initiated into these allegations. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Rather, a few days later,
Park issued a disciplinary notice to Plaintiff, demoting Plaintiff, which the
Complaint alleges was in retaliation for reporting the harassing conduct to
Park. (Compl., ¶ 15.)
 
In moving
to strike the punitive damages request against Defendant DCH, Defendant argues
that the only identified individuals are Haroon and Park – neither of whom are
named as managing agents for DCH Torrance. (Compl. ¶ 6.) That is, the Complaint
does not allege that either Haroon and/or Park exercised substantial
independent authority such that their decision making ultimately determined
corporate policy. 
 
Generally,
“principal liability for punitive damages [does] not depend on employees’
managerial level, but on the extent to which they exercise substantial
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate
policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576–577.) Thus,
to establish that an individual is a managing agent, a plaintiff seeking
punitive damages must show that “the employee exercised substantial
discretionary authority over significant aspects of a corporation's business.”
(Id. at p. 577.) In this context, “corporate policy” refers to “ ‘formal
policies that affect a substantial portion of the company and that are of the
type likely to come to the attention of corporate leadership.’ ” (Roby v.
McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 715; Cruz v. HomeBase (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167–168 [“ ‘corporate policy’ is the general principles
which guide a corporation, or rules intended to be followed consistently over
time in corporate operations,” and thus “[a] ‘managing agent’ is one with
substantial authority over decisions that set these general principles and
rules”].)
 
The
allegations pertaining to Park and his role as a general manager overseeing the
operations of Defendant DCH are sufficient for pleading purposes to show
that he is a managing agent. (Compl., ¶ 6.)
 
Further,
based on the allegations of sexual harassment and Park’s response to Plaintiff’s complaint of this
harassment (Compl., ¶¶ 8-15), these allegations are sufficient to support a
request for punitive damages against DCH. (See e.g., Monge v. Superior Court
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 511 [finding punitive damages adequately pleaded when
plaintiffs alleged that defendants sexually harassed plaintiffs and then
retaliated against them]; Ortega v. University of Pacific (E.D. Cal.,
Nov. 15, 2013, No. CIV. S-13-1426 KJM) 2013 WL 6054447, at *4 [allegations that
unwanted sexual comments were not investigated or remediated were “sufficient
to support a request for punitive damages”].)
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion to strike is denied. 
 