 Case Number:  23STCV01213    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR ORDER ESTABLISHING ADMISSIONS (SET
TWO) AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 12/12/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV01213 AMANDA PHAM vs LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON
INC., et al.
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant Pink Sparrow
Scenic Ltd. 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
Background
On May 8, 2024, the
Court granted Plaintiff Amanda Pham’s (“Plaintiff”) counsel’s motion to be
relieved, effective upon filing proof of service of the order on Plaintiff. The
proof of service was filed on May 9, 2024. Plaintiff is currently
self-represented. On October 8, 2024, Cross-Defendant Pink Sparrow Scenic Ltd.
(“Pink Sparrow”) served Request for Admissions, Set Two on Plaintiff via
overnight delivery. Responses were due November 12, 2024. Plaintiff did not
respond. 
Pink Sparrow now moves
the Court to deem the contents of its Requests for Admissions, Set Two,
admitted. No opposition has been filed. 
Legal Standard¿¿ 
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action admit
the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of
fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿
CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after
service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed
shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a
copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿
CCP § 2033.250(a).¿¿ 
        If
a party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a).
The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall
issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a
response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP §
2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to
deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and confer requirements.¿¿ 
Analysis 
        Plaintiff
failed to serve an initial response, including any objections, within the
timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a). No opposition or other documents were
filed indicating that responses were served prior to the hearing. Therefore,
the contents of Pink Sparrow’s Requests for Admissions, Set Two, are deemed
admitted.
Sanctions are mandatory
against the party, the attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
discovery response necessitated Pink Sparrow’s filing of the present motion.
(CCP § 2033.280(c).) Pink Sparrow has requested sanctions in the amount of $1,385,
which the Court finds reasonable.  Plaintiff
is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,385 to counsel for Pink Sparrow
within 20 days of this order.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 