 Case Number:  22STCV40746    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSE AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 12/12/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV40746 ISIDRO ARGUELLO
RAZO vs HALEY MORRISON MECH, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: The Court Will Hear From The Parties
 
The present motion
concerns Defendants' multiple motions to compel initial responses. On November
21, 2024, the court heard the motions. Plaintiff did not file an opposition,
but counsel for Plaintiff appeared at the hearing and stated that Plaintiff is deceased
and the handling attorney had a medical emergency. The court continued the
hearing to December 1, 2024, and ordered Plaintiff's counsel to provide a
status update to the court and counsel for the defendant regarding the issues
discussed by December 9, 2024. However, no declaration was filed prior to the
hearing.
The court will hear
from the parties regarding the status of the case and the handling attorney,
and why Plaintiff's counsel did not comply with the court's November 21, 2024,
order to provide a status update by December 9, 2024.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 