 Case Number:  24STCV08229    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
9, 2024                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Leslie
Handy v. Allied Universal Security Services Universal Protection, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV08229

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied Universal Security Services and DOE
1 Universal Services of America LP
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Leslie Handy
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order compelling arbitration and staying this matter pending arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      This
matter is STAYED pending arbitration.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff Leslie Handy (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Allied Universal Security Services Universal
Protection and Universal Protection Service, LP (Defendants) with seven causes
of action for: (1) perceived and/or race harassment, discrimination and
retaliation in violation of Cal. Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq [FEHA]; (2)
violation of Cal. Lab. Code §§ 226.7 and 500 et seq. (break violations); (3)
violation of Cal. Lab. Code §§ 200 et seq. (wages and overtime); (4) violation
of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq. (unfair business practices); (5)
violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5 (whistleblower); (6) wrongful termination
in violation of public policy; and (7) declaratory relief.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendants
as a Security Guard until they wrongfully terminated her on August 26, 2023. Plaintiff
further alleges various employment violations and discrimination based on his
race. 
 
On May 15, 2024, Defendants filed an Answer.
 
On July 3, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to
compel arbitration. On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
October 1, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
A “party asserting the FAA applies to an agreement has
‘the burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other evidence.’” (Evenskaas v. California Transit, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [internal citation omitted].)  “‘The FAA’s basic
coverage provision, section 2, makes the FAA applicable to contracts
“evidencing a transaction involving commerce.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
Courts broadly construe section 2 to “provide for the enforcement of
arbitration agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” 
[Citation.]  “Accordingly, in most cases, the FAA mandates arbitration
when contracts involving interstate commerce contain arbitration provisions.”
’  [Citations.]”  (Mendoza v.
Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2 [“A
written provision in . . . a contract evidencing a transaction involving
commerce” to arbitrate a controversy shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for revocation
of any contract].)  
 
“The United States Supreme Court has identified ‘three
categories of activity that Congress may regulate under its commerce power: (1)
“the use of the channels of interstate commerce”; (2) “the instrumentalities of
interstate commerce, or persons or things in interstate commerce, . . .”; and
(3) “those activities having a substantial relation to interstate commerce, . .
. i.e., those activities that substantially affect interstate commerce.”
’  [Citations.]”  (Evenskaas,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 293.)
 “[A]ctivities in [the] third category—those that ‘substantially affect’
commerce—may be regulated so long as they substantially affect interstate
commerce in the aggregate, even if their individual impact on interstate
commerce is minimal.”  (Ibid.)
¿
Under California
law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP
§1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of the
parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿¿ 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿¿¿ 
 
Under both the
FAA and California Law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff does not actually oppose going to arbitration.
Rather, Plaintiff seeks to revise the terms of the agreement. Defendant replies
that there is no such requirement to compel arbitration.
 

Existence of the Arbitration
     Agreement 

 
Defendant has met its burden to show the signature on the
arbitration agreement was signed by Plaintiff by a preponderance of the
evidence. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group,
Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 843.) Civil Code §1633.7 requires the court
give an electronic signature the same legal effect as a handwritten
signature.  (Civ. Code §1633.7(a); Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1061, citing Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at pg. 843.) 
“An electronic record or electronic signature is attributable to a
person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in
any manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure
applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic
signature was attributable.”  (Civ. Code
§1633.9(a).)
 
In Ruiz, the Court
held that the employer was unable to establish that the signature of the
plaintiff was an “act of” the Plaintiff; and provided instructions on how to
establish same: 
 
Main did not explain
that an electronic signature in the name of “Ernesto Zamora Ruiz” could only
have been placed on the 2011 agreement (i.e., on the employee acknowledgement
form) by a person using Ruiz’s “unique login ID and password”; that the date
and time printed next to the electronic signature indicated the date and time
the electronic signature was made; that all Moss Bros. employees were
required to use their unique login ID and password when they logged into the HR
system and signed electronic forms and agreements; and the electronic
signature on the 2011 agreement was, therefore, apparently made by Ruiz on
September 21, 2011, at 11:47 a.m.
 
(Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at pg. 844
[emphasis added].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate his employment claims on
December 5, 2022, when he electronically acknowledged acceptance of the
Agreement. (Bhangoo Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8, 9, 10(d), 11, 12.) Plaintiff needed a unique
login and password to access the Agreement. (Bhangoo Decl. ¶ 10(a), (b), (c),
(d).) The signed Agreement indicates the date and time that Plaintiff accepted
it. (Bhangoo Decl., Exhibit A.) Plaintiff is the only person who could have
electronically signed via acceptance. (Bhangoo Decl. ¶ 21.) What is more,
Plaintiff does not deny that he signed the Agreement. 
 
Additionally, the Agreement applies to each Defendant
because it covers Allied Universal Services of America LP and its subsidiaries,
affiliates, and/or related companies. (Bhangoo Decl. ¶ 14.) Defendant Universal
Protection Service, LP dba Allied Universal Security Services is a subsidiary
of Universal Services of America LP. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff does not take issue with this either. Instead, Plaintiff complains
that Defendant did not quickly provide this information.
 
Accordingly, there is a valid arbitration agreement.
 
2.      Enforceability of the Agreement
Federal law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration
Agreement. (Bhangoo Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 8.) The FAA establishes a strong federal
policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract . . .  shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.)  The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse
the longstanding judicial hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp. (1991)
500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal
footing with other contracts and [requires courts] to enforce them according to
their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility,
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West,
Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental
principle that arbitration is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137
S.Ct. 1421, 1426.) 
 
The United States Supreme Court has specifically held that
the FAA applies to employment contracts: “[A]s a matter of law the answer is
clear.  In the Federal Arbitration Act, Congress has instructed federal
courts to enforce arbitration agreements according to their terms.”  (Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018) 138
S.Ct. 1612, 1619, [holding that employees must submit to arbitration agreements
including those with collective action waivers].)   
The FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling
arbitration to two threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the
dispute.[1] 
(Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  
 
Defendants met this burden, too. First, as discussed above,
Defendant showed that the Agreement exists. Second, the Agreement covers the
instant dispute because it covers “claims for discrimination and/or harassment;
claims for wrongful termination;” as well as various other employment law
claims and is not otherwise carved out. (Bhangoo Decl. Exhibit A, ¶¶ 3, 6.)
Plaintiff does not dispute this either. 
 
California law also favors arbitration for dispute
resolution. The California Arbitration Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written agreement
to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.” (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th
944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements
are specifically authorized by statute.”].) 
The statute mandates arbitration when agreement to do so exists: 
 
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists. 
 
(C.C.P. §1281.2.) 
 
“California law, like federal law, favors enforcement of
valid arbitration agreements.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97,
99.) The public policy in favor of arbitration is so strong that California
courts have held that an employee is “bound by the provisions of the
[arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or [was] aware of
the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th 1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to order
arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an agreement
to arbitrate the dispute.  (United Transportation Union v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Transit District (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 804, 808.) Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.” (Vianna v. Doctors’ Management
Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
 
Accordingly, the Agreement is enforceable.
 
3.      Defenses to Enforcement
Plaintiff does not argue that the court should not enforce
the Agreement because it is unconscionable. Lack of a complete stipulation to
proceed to arbitration is not a defense to enforcement. As such, the court will
not analyze other defenses.[2]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      This
matter is STAYED pending arbitration.
Order to Show Cause re: Status of Arbitration on October 9,
2025 at 8:30 a.m.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              October 9, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


