 Case Number:  22SMCV02308    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Morales, v. Bellami
Hair LLC
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02308
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Third-Party Meta Platforms Inc. to Comply with Subpoena
HEARING DATE:   10/12/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            Personal service of a
deposition subpoena obligates the production of whatever documents or things
are specified in the subpoena and to appear in any proceedings to enforce
discovery. (CCP § 2020.220(c). If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena,
the subpoenaing party may seek a court order pursuant to CCP section 1987.1
compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena within 60 days after
completion of the deposition record. (CCP § 2025.480(b); see also UnzippedApparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.)
 
The motion must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration. (CCP § 2025.480(b).) There is no “good cause”
requirement when seeking to compel documents from a nonparty. (CCP §
2020.410(c).)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel a response to a subpoena sent to third party Meta Platforms
Inc. Specifically, the subpoena sought the following electronically stored
information:
 
Plaintiff
asked for the following in its description of records for production: Copies of
Bellami Hair LLC’s (handle “bellamihair”, “bellami”, etc.) paid and unpaid
content, including all advertisements and marketing items, posted on Meta
Platforms Inc.’s social media platforms, including Facebook, Facebook Market
Place, Instagram, Instagram Stories, etc., including but not limited to
contents which included Plaintiff Carla Morales’ subject two pictures (samples
provided in Exhibit 1), from 2019 to present, including but not limited to
documents and communications indicating how many times such items were posted/published,
how many times such items were viewed, how much Bellami Hair LLC paid for the
paid content, all orders by Bellami Hair LLC, all invoices to Bellami Hair LLC,
items indicating the targeted demographic and geographic areas, etc., how many
times such items were clicked on, how many times such items were converted into
sales and for what gross amounts.
 
(Berokim Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
Meta
objected to the subpoena asserting: i) Plaintiff must direct the request
to the user (Defendant); ii) the subpoena is overly broad, unduly burdensome,
vague, or not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; iii) the information is protected attorney-client or other applicable
privilege, or confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information; and iv)
Meta cannot authenticate or verify account content.  (Id., Ex. 2.) On these objections, Meta
refused to comply.
 
Meta opposes this motion on two
grounds. First, Meta notes that they have objected to this discovery, and thus
a separate statement is required under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.  Generally, a separate statement is required
where there has been a response to the request for discovery. (CRC Rule
3.1345(b).) More specifically, any motion “involving the content of a discovery
request . . . must be accompanied by a separate statement” including a motion
to “compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a
deposition[.]” (CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(5).) Here, Plaintiff moves to compel the
production of documents pursuant to their deposition subpoena for the
production of business records. As noted, Meta objected to this SDT. Thus, a
separate statement is required for this motion to compel. 
 
Second, Meta argues that this
motion may be denied under CCP section 1985.8(i). This section states in
pertinent part:
 
(i) The court
shall limit the frequency or extent of discovery of electronically stored
information, even from a source that is reasonably accessible, if the court
determines that any of the following conditions exists: (1) It is possible to
obtain the information from some other source that is more convenient, less
burdensome, or less expensive.
 
Meta
demonstrates that Plaintiff may readily obtain this same information from
Defendants. Seeking the information directly from Defendants, rather than Meta,
would be more convenient and less burdensome for the third party. Meta
explained to Plaintiff’s counsel that a user may log into their accounts at any
time to preserve, collect, produce, and authenticate their account contents,
with various tools available to help users access and download their
information, including Defendant’s sales and profits from its use of that
single advertisement carousel. Thus, Defendant has equal access to the
information, and would be in a better position to produce all relevant
information sought by the subpoena. Defendant confirms that Plaintiff has
sought the same information directly from Defendant. (Amlani Decl., ¶ 8, Ex.
D.) Notably, Defendant’s responses to outstanding discovery were not due until
October 6, 2023, after this subpoena issued. 
 
            In light of
the lack of a separate statement, and the ability to acquire this same
information from Defendants, the motion is DENIED.