  Case Number:  22TRCV01291    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JANE
  DOE R.H., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01291




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DOE
  1, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June
17, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Centinela Valley Union High School District
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe R.H.
Motion
to Stay Proceedings
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
            On November 21, 2022, plaintiff Jane
Doe R.H. filed a complaint against defendants Doe 1, Doe 2, and Doe 3 through
60 for (1) childhood sexual abuse, (2) IIED, (3) negligence based on Gov. Code
§§815.2 and 820, (4) failure to report suspected child abuse, (5) negligent
supervision of a minor, and (6) negligence. 
Plaintiff alleges that in 1993/1994 schoolyear when she was around 16 or
17 years old and a student at Leuzinger High School, she was a victim of
unlawful childhood sexual assault by an athletics coach and/or teacher.  
            On March 21, 2023, the court granted
plaintiff’s ex parte application to name and serve Doe defendants. 
            On April 13, 2023, plaintiff filed
amendments to complaint designating Centinela Valley Union High School District
as Doe 1 and Charles Wright as Doe 2.
            On January 22, 2024, the court
denied defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “The power to stay proceedings is incidental
to the power inherent in every court to control the disposition of the causes
on its docket with economy of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for
litigants.”  OTO, LLC v. Kho
(2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,141.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
requests that the Court stay the matter pending the decisions of the First
Appellate District in West Contra Costa Unified School District v. Superior
Court and the Second Appellate District in Roe #2 Public Elementary
School District v. Superior Court of Santa Barbara County.
            The
Court notes that on January 22, 2024, the Court denied defendant’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action.  Defendant had argued that
plaintiff had failed to comply with claims presentation requirements of the Government
Claims Act.  The complaint alleges
exemption from the Act.  Defendant had
argued that Assembly Bill 218, which was enacted in 2019, violated the
California Constitution, which purported to create liability against a public
entity for past acts of negligence. 
Defendant also argued that as such, plaintiff has no enforceable claim
because it had lapsed.  The court stated
that it was inclined to find that AB 218 was constitutional, and that defendant
had not shown that the “gift clause” was applicable or triggered.
            Defendant
argues that it is in the “interest of judicial and fiscal economy” to stay this
matter pending rulings from the Court of Appeals, which defendant asserts are
“imminent.”  Defendant contends that the
above appellate decisions have the potential to render this matter unactionable
as the pending writs specifically address whether Assembly Bill 218 is
constitutional.  Defendant further argues
that a stay is also necessary because any payments authorized by any public
Board officer may be determined to be illegal pursuant to Penal Code §424, and
that it is “hamstrung in approving a monetary settlement.”  Defendant also contends that plaintiff will
not be prejudiced by a stay.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that there is no ground for a stay in that there
is no judgment or appealable order in this case.  Further, plaintiff contends, trial courts are
prohibited from relying on unpublished opinions.  Plaintiff further argues that AB 218 and CCP
§340.1 “is the law and remains good law.” 
Plaintiff also asserts that defendant cannot cite to any cases that
“mandate a stay in similar contexts.” 
Moreover, plaintiff argues, granting an “indefinite stay” will cause
unnecessary irreparable harm to plaintiff.
            In
reply, defendant argues that there is sufficient authority for a stay.  Defendant further contends that the appellate
court rulings will be dispositive as they are ruling on whether AB 218 is
constitutional.  Defendant reiterates its
arguments that plaintiff will not be prejudiced and that staying this action is
in the interests of justice and economy.
            The
Court finds that although the Court has inherent authority to control the
proceedings before it by ordering a stay (see CCP §128(a)), the motion is
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  Defendant has
not shown that the appellate court case decisions, if unpublished, are
binding.  In the event that the appellate
court publishes its case and is thus binding on the herein case, defendant can
seek further relief.
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.