 Case Number:  24TRCV01998    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, et al.,    Plaintiffs, Case No.:  24TRCV01998 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  EUGENE STAVTSEV, et al.,   Defendants.       Hearing Date:                         June 17, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Plaintiffs People of the State of California ex rel. William Wynder, City Attorney for the City of Rancho Palos Verdes and City of Rancho of Palos VerdesResponding Party:                  NoneEx Parte Application for Order Appointing Receiver and Requiring Reimbursements Pursuant to Health & Safety Code §§17980, et seq.             The Court considered the ex parte application.  No opposition was filed.RULING            The ex parte application is either continued for a short period of time to allow Petitioner to provide evidence of compliance statute, or DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE if Petitioner cannot provide such evidence.BACKGROUND            On June 12, 2024, People of the State of California ex rel. Elena Q. Gerli, City Attorney for the City of Rancho Palos Verdes and City of Rancho Palos Verdes filed a complaint against defendants Eugene Stavtsev and Olga Stavtsev and real party in interest U.S. Bank National Association for (1) public nuisance per se, (2) public nuisance, and (3) violation of State Housing Law – Receivership.            LEGAL AUTHORITY            Health and Safety Code §17980.6 states, in part:  “If any building is maintained in a manner that violates any provisions of this part, . . . or any provision in a local ordinance that is similar to a provision in this part, and the violations are so extensive and of such a nature that the health and safety of residents or the public is substantially endangered, the enforcement agency may issue an order or notice to repair or abate pursuant to this part.  Any order or notice pursuant to this subdivision shall be provided either (1) by both posting a copy of the order or notice in a conspicuous place on the property and by first–class mail to each affected residential unit, or (2) by posting a copy of the order or notice in a conspicuous place on the property and in a prominent place on each affected residential unit.”DISCUSSION            Plaintiff City of Rancho Palos Verdes requests appointment of a receiver pursuant to Health and Safety Code §17980.7(c).  Specifically, plaintiff requests that the court:(1)  appoint California Receivership Group, Inc. through its president Mark Adams, as receiver to  (1) immediately relocate the current residents on the property; (2) undertake expedited efforts to stop the outflow of sewage from the structure’s cleanout and/or malfunctioning septic system onto the yard and the adjacent canyon/creek; (3) repair and/or replace the malfunctioning septic system; and (4) remediate the resulting environmental contamination caused by the violation.(2)  An order that the proposed receiver is granted the authority in CCP §568 and Health and Safety Code §17980.7 to do such acts respecting the property as this court may authorize.(3)  An order to temporarily or permanently relocate the property’s occupants if necessary to implement the Rehabilitation Plan and Cost Estimate.(4)  An order that, prior to performing his duties, the receiver shall: (a) immediately execute and file a receiver’s oath; and (b) file a bond required by CCP §567(b) in the amount of $30,000.(5)  An order granting the proposed receiver all of the following powers and duties: (a) to take full and complete control of the substandard property, including control of tangible and intangible property located in or about said real property or used in connection with said real property; (b) to manage the property, abate all public nuisances, and pay for the costs associated with all remedial work at the property and any remediation work along the rights of way adjoining property; (c) to borrow funds with super priority status to cover the costs of securing the property, developing a plan to cure all public nuisances, the cost of rehabilitation, and any of the other initial costs of receivership; (d) to prepare a plan to bring the property up to code as cited in May 28, 2024 Notice to Abate and to seek court approval of that plan; (e) after court approval of the construction plan and cost estimate, the Receiver may borrow funds to pay for repairs necessary to correct the conditions as identified in the Rehabilitation Plan and Cost Estimate; (f) to borrow funds to pay for repair necessary to correct the conditions, and any other necessary repairs; (g) to enter into contracts and employ a licensed contractor; (h) to collect all rents and income from the property; (i) to use al rents and income to pay for the cost of rehabilitation and repairs; (j) to prepare monthly reports to the City and file such reports with the court; and (k) to apply to this court four further or other instructions.(6)  An order that defendants are enjoined and prohibited from undertaking any of the below actions during the pendency of the receivership:  (a) encumbering or transferring all or any portion of the property; (b) claiming or utilizing any tax deduction; (c) demanding, collecting, receiving, or diverting any rents, profits, or income from the property; and (d) canceling, reducing, or modifying any existing policies of insurance applicable to the property.(7)  An order requiring defendants, including their tenants or agents, to cooperate with Receiver.(8)  An order requiring defendants to reimburse the City, receiver, and all vendors hired to cure the defects.(9)  An order stating that the City is entitled to recover its attorneys’ fees, ordinary costs, and administrative costs, inspection costs, investigation costs, and costs to repair and eliminate all substandard conditions.(10)        An order that should any lawful order issued by the Receiver be refused, that the Receiver is authorized to enlist the assistance of any duly authorized public safety officer.(11)        An order that the receiver shall not be discharged until the conditions cited in the complaint, notice of intent to abate, the Rehabilitation Plan have been remedied and a complete accounting of all costs and repairs have been delivered to the court.(12)        An order that failure to comply with any order issued shall be punishable by civil contempt and penalties under Health and Safety Code.              The complaint alleges that this action concerns the real property located at 20 Saddle Road, Rancho Palos Verdes, further identified as Los Angeles County Assessor’s Parcel Number 7556-004-008.  Complaint, ¶4.  The property is a single family residence located in the residential zone of the City.  Id., ¶5.  At all relevant times, defendants are the owners in possession of the property.  Id., ¶6, Exh. A (Deed of Trust).  Since on or about April 8, 2024, defendants have maintained the property in violation of RPVMC.  The violations can be summarized as a failure of the septic system on the property and defendants’ failure to repair or replace the system.  Defendants have removed the cap on the property’s cleanout and have allowed their toilets, sinks, and other plumbing to drain on the rear hardscape and other locations on the property.  Defendants have allowed human waste to accumulate on the back patio, in the partially drained swimming pool, in the soil/grass/turf in the yard, and have piped the sewage in and around the property, and posed serious public health risks to the residents, neighbors, the public, and the environment.  Id., ¶10.  The City has received numerous complaints regarding the unpermitted septic tank repair and raw sewage discharge on the property.  Id., ¶11.                         NoticeHealth and Safety Code §17980.7, provides, in relevant part, “If the owner fails to comply within a reasonable time with the terms of the order or notice issued pursuant to Section 17980.6, the following provisions shall apply: . . . (c) The enforcement agency . . . may seek and the court may order, the appointment of a receiver for the substandard building pursuant to this subdivision.  In its petition to the court, the enforcement agency . . . shall include proof that notice of the petition was posted in a prominent place on the substandard building and mailed first-class mail to all persons with a recorded interest in the real property upon which the substandard building exists not less than three days prior to filing the petition.  The petition shall be served on the owner pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”“By its terms, section 17980.7 contemplates that two different types of notice must be given to the property owner before a receiver may be appointed.  The first type of notice, reflected in the introductory clause of section 17980.7, refers to the enforcement agency’s notice to repair issued pursuant to section 17980.6. . . . The second type of notice, reflected in section 17980.7(c), addresses the particular notice required when a receivership is sought:  the party seeking appointment of a receiver ‘shall include proof [in the petition] that notice of the petition was served not less than three days prior to filing the petition’ to all persons with a recorded interest in the property.  (§17980.7(c).)  Given its ordinary and usual meaning, this statutory language is reasonably understood as meaning that an enforcement agency such as the City cannot commence a receivership proceeding unless it demonstrates that it gave the property owner at least three days' notice of the receivership petition.”  City of Santa Monica v. Gonzalez (2008) 43 Cal. 4th 905, 920-21.  “[T]he notice it requires is simply notice that the receivership petition was served on all persons with a recorded interest in the property at least three days before the petition was filed.”  Id. at 921.According to the petition, plaintiff served a “notice of intent to seek appointment of receiver” via certified mail on June 6, 2024.  See Petition, Exh. V.  There is no indication or allegation that notice of the petition was posted in a prominent place on the substandard building and mailed first-class mail to all persons with a recorded interest in the real property not less than three days prior to filing the petition, which was on June 16, 2024.  Thus, the court finds that plaintiff has not shown that it posted and mailed notice of the petition not less than three days prior to filing the petition.  There is also no proof of service of the petition in accordance with CCP §415.10, et seq. on the owners.                         Health & Safety Code §17920.3 and Public NuisanceThe Notice of Violation dated May 14, 2024 identified the following violations of the Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code:  13.10.040(A) – illicit discharges and connections; 13.10.040(G) – discharges in violation of the municipal NPDES permit; and 13.10.050(A) – septic waste.  Petition, Exh. K.  The Final Notice of Violation dated May 22, 2024 identified illicit discharges and connections and septic waste.  Id., O.According to the declaration of Victoria Powers (Code Enforcement Officer), from April 8, 2024 to the present, the City received over fifteen complaints from adjacent property owners of “an unbearable stench emanating” from the property, which was attributable to raw sewage discharged from the cleanout on the rear of the property and/or malfunctioning septic system located in the backyard.  She states that the City inspected the property on several occasions, confirming the cleanout in the rear of the property was used to discharge raw sewage into the yard.  She opines that the raw sewage discharge from the house and onto the back patio, into the rear yard, and onto the adjoining canyon/slope “presents significant health and safety concerns, as well as environmental contamination concerns.”  See also Bryan Do (Code Enforcement Officer) decl.The court finds that plaintiff has presented sufficient evidence to meet its burden to show that the violations are so extensive and of such a nature that the health and safety of residents or the public is substantially endangered, pursuant to Health & Safety Code §17980.6.Reasonable opportunity to correct conditionsHealth and Safety Code §17980.7(c) provides that “(1) In appointing a receiver, the court shall consider whether the owner has been afforded a reasonable opportunity to correct the conditions cited in the notice of violation.”The court cannot yet find that the owners have been afforded a reasonable opportunity to correct the conditions cited in the purported notices of violation because the ex parte application does not include any evidence of the notices. Qualification of receiver  Health and Safety Code §17980.7 states:  “(2) The court shall not appoint any person as a receiver unless the person has demonstrated to the court their capacity and expertise to develop and supervise a viable financial and construction plan for the satisfactory rehabilitation of the building. . . .”The court finds that the proposed receiver Mark Adams of California Receivership Group, Inc. has demonstrated to the court their capacity and expertise to develop and supervise a viable financial and construction plan for the satisfactory rehabilitation of the property.  See Mark Adams decl.                        Attorney’s feesHealth and Safety Code §17980.7(c) provides:  “(11) The prevailing party in an action pursuant to this action shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs as may be fixed by the court.”  The City’s proposed order is premature in that it provides for the award of attorney’s fees to the City.            ORDER:            The ex parte application is either continued for a short period of time to allow Petitioner to provide evidence of compliance statute, or DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE if Petitioner cannot provide such evidence.  [The new hearing date is _____________.]            Petitioner is ordered to give notice of ruling.