 Case Number:  23SMCP00011    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           LMS v. WLS, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00011
MOTION:                  Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint; Anti-SLAPP
HEARING DATE:   5/8/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Standard 
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.) 
 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Anti-SLAPP
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits the Court
to strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the
defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the plaintiff establishes
that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. “The
anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally
protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral v.
Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) “The anti-SLAPP statute does not
insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected
rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at
an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.” (Id.
at 384.)
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the
defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity
protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes the required showing, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by
establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 384,
citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court has “described this second step
as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does not weigh evidence or
resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to whether the
plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual
showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s
evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it
defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. ‘[C]laims with the requisite
minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at 384-385 [citations omitted].)
Request for
judicial notice
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Lauren Sanchez demurs to
the Third Amended Complaint’s (TAC) first and second causes of action.
Defendant also moves to strike certain allegations on a traditional and
anti-SLAPP basis. Defendant reqeusts that the Court adjudicate the demurrer
first, because it might adjudicate the entire action. While generally the Court
would assess the anti-SLAPP first, the Court agrees that under these
circumstances, the most efficient resolution of this action would be to address
the demurrer first.
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for breach of contract fails because the TAC reveals that Defendant did not
breach the Consulting Agreement, that Plaintiff did not suffer damages, and
that any oral agreement fails to state a claim and exceeds the court’s ruling
on leave to amend.
 
“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract
are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) A pleader’s legal characterization of a contract is
not controlling, particularly when the contract is attached to the pleading. (Morris
v. Redwood Empire Bancorp (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.) “The proper interpretation of a
contract is disputable if the contract is susceptible of more than one
reasonable interpretation, that is, if the contract is ambiguous. An ambiguity
may appear on the face of a contract, or extrinsic evidence may reveal a latent
ambiguity.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 114; see Moore v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 39
Cal.App.5th 280, 287-288 [ambiguous terms “should be interpreted most strongly
against the party who caused the uncertainty to exist.”].)
 
Plaintiff alleges in January 2019, Plaintiff and Defendant
signed a Communications Consulting Agreement (“The Agreement”). (TAC ¶ 16, Ex.
B.) Defendant admittedly paid the first month’s invoice which covered the
$25,001.00 monthly fee and costs. (TAC ¶ 17.) Under the terms of “the
Agreement, although the verbiage is admittedly confusing, Ms. Sanchez was
required to pay Mr. Sanchez Twenty-Five Thousand and One Dollar ($25,001.00)
per month, for at least eighteen weeks.” (TAC ¶ 220.) Ms. Sanchez agreed to
“bake the Agreement into a more formal, long-term Shadow C.E.O. Agreement once
the inevitable scandal had been managed by Mr. Sanchez,” although this apparently
never occurred. (TAC ¶ 221.) On January 16, 2019, Mr. Sanchez emailed two invoices
to Ms. Sanchez’ business manager, Julie Schwartz; the first invoice was for his
services and costs and a separate invoice was included for the services of PR
Consultant Judy Smith. (TAC ¶ 228, Ex. T.) Plaintiff admits that the invoices
were paid via wire on January 25, 2019. (TAC ¶ 229.) Afterwards, in February
2019, Defendant breached the Agreement by “refusing” to pay for services and costs
for the remainder of the “eighteen-week term”. (TAC ¶¶ 19, 230.) As a result,
Plaintiff was harmed in the amount of $115,000.00, and $1,000,000 in attorneys’
fees, amongst other things. (TAC ¶ 234.) 
 
In the prior demurrer, the Court discussed
at length how the attached contract does not demonstrate the alleged eighteen-week
term. (TAC, Ex. B.) Instead, the contract requires Defendant to pay Plaintiff a “fixed project fee of
Twenty-Five Thousand and One Dollar ($25,001.00)” for an “Initial Term” of “six
(6) weeks” with two “automatic” 6-week extensions unless either party
“notifie[d] the other, in writing, of their desire to terminate the Agreement.”
(SAC Ex. A at §§ 1, 3-4.) Therefore, the contract obligated Defendant to pay
for a six-week initial term, and for any additional six-week terms if there was
no written notice of termination. Further, “[a]t the end of each month, Dream will send Client a
report of key activities performed on her behalf, along with an email Invoice
which will include approved third-party expenditures, travel costs and routine
out-of-pocket expenses during the month.” (SAC, Ex. A at § 3.) 
 
In bringing this cause of action, Plaintiff
relies on a purported ambiguity
in the Agreement. Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ith the inevitable global
PR crisis exploding, Mr. Sanchez’ bandwidth was extremely limited. As a result,
he simply cut-and-pasted the somewhat confusing verbiage from the Smith &
Company Agreement, a true and correct copy of which is attached as Exhibit L.”
(TAC ¶ 133.) Plaintiff admits that he caused any ambiguity  in the Agreement to exist. Plaintiff goes on
to allege that “the exact Terms were clear between Mr. Sanchez and Ms. Sanchez;
as evidenced by emails, invoicing, and payments managed by Julie Schwartz[],
Ms. Sanchez’ business manager. (TAC ¶ 134.) “If necessary, the Agreement terms
and supporting evidence will be fully exposed and clarified during the
Discovery process in this matter, including the depositions and document
production of/by Ms. Smith, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Bezos, Mr. Whitesell, Ms.
Schwartz, et al.” (TAC ¶ 135.)
 
Despite these allegations, the
Court does not find an ambiguity on the face of the integrated agreement. The clear and explicit meaning of the
contract terms govern. The parties did not agree to an eighteen-week term without
conditions. The express language is reasonably susceptible to only one
interpretation—that the parties agreed to an initial six-week term with two
potential six-week extensions. 
 
Critically, Plaintiff does not allege that he ever sent
any additional monthly reports or invoices as required by the material terms of
the contract. The TAC admits that Defendant never failed to pay any invoices
actually sent. Plaintiff expressly alleges that Defendant paid all Invoices
for the monthly fees and costs and that the breaches occurred
after Defendant paid the invoices. (TAC ¶ 137.) Plaintiff further does
not allege any facts that show the agreement was extended beyond the initial term,
i.e., that Defendant failed to notify him in writing of termination. Plaintiff
alleges that his “repeated efforts to inquire about payment” and Defendant’s
“ability to terminate the written Agreement” were ignored. (TAC ¶ 231.) Plaintiff
does not allege, as a matter of fact, that Plaintiff continued to perform any
services during any of the extended terms, or that Plaintiff sent the monthly reports
required during the extended terms. Plaintiff only proffers the conclusion that
he complied with the “significant” terms of the contract. (See TAC ¶ 222.) Plaintiff
also pleads his efforts to perform services under the contract. (TAC ¶¶ 232-233.)
However, Plaintiff does not state when he performed these acts, which
would demonstrate any extended terms. Moreover, the pled facts suggest
that the contractual relationship ended in January 2019, when Defendant “went
along with the false ‘betrayal’ narrative” against Plaintiff and breached all
the parties’ agreements. (TAC ¶¶ 150-151.) Therefore, Plaintiff does not allege
his performance or excuse for non-performance of the extended terms.
 
As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED,
tentatively without leave to amend. Leave to amend will only be granted if
plaintiff proffers facts addressing the deficiencies discussed above. 
 
Demurrer/Motion
to Strike an Oral Contract
 
The
Court concurs that the pled oral contract exceeds the scope of leave to amend
previously granted by the court. Prior to the filing of the TAC, the Court expressly
held that any attempt to plead an oral agreement arising from the alleged
management/agency relationship would be barred by the written integration
clause and likely be barred by the two-year statute of limitations for oral
contract claims. Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend
as to the second cause of action, or alternatively, the motion to strike is
GRANTED as to the second cause of action for not being filed in conformity with
this Court’s prior rulings.
 
For
these reasons, the anti-SLAPP motion is moot.
 