  Case Number:  24STCP00944    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Los
  Angeles Parks Alliance,


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case Nos.:

 


 
24STCP00944 
24STCP00965




v.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,

 


 
Respondent.

 


 


 




 
The
  California Endowment,
 
v.
 
Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,

 


 
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
Respondent.

 


 


 




 
Zero
  Emissions Transit, Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Technologies LLC.


 
 
 
 
Real
  Parties in Interest.
 

 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing
Date: June 10, 2024
Department
54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion
to Confirm Expedited CEQA Litigation
Moving
Party: Respondent Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Responding
Parties: Petitioner Los Angeles Parks Alliance;
Petitioner the California Endowment
 
T/R:     RESPONDENT’S MOTION TO CONFIRM EXPEDITED LITIGATION IS GRANTED.
 
            PETITIONERS
TO NOTICE.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, oppositions, and replies filed in both
cases.  
BACKGROUND 
  
On
March 25, 2024, Petitioner Los Angeles Parks Alliance filed a petition for writ
of mandate against Respondent Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Metro”). On March 26, 2024, Petitioner the California Endowment
filed a similar action. The Court related the two cases. 
The
petitions challenge Metro’s approval of the Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Project.
The Project would construct a 1.2-mile-long aerial gondola system that connects
Union Station to Dodger Stadium, including an intermediate station (200-feet-long,
80-feet-wide, and 98-feet-tall) at the entrance of the Los Angeles State
Historic Park. Petitioners assert that the construction of a station and aerial
pathways for gondola cabins would unlawfully use nearly two acres of LA State
Historic Park and would benefit a private venture while adversely impacting the
park’s scenic viewsheds and open spaces, removing more than six dozen trees,
and disrupting park activities. Petitioners claim that significant
environmental effects have not been adequately addressed in the Project’s
Environmental Impact Report (EIR). 
On
February 22, 2024, following a public hearing, Metro voted to approve the
Project, certify the Final EIR, adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program,
and adopt CEQA Findings and a Statement of Overriding Considerations for the
Project. On February 26, 2024, the CEQA Notice of Determination was filed with
the County Clerk and State Clearinghouse. 
DISCUSSION
 
Metro requests that the Court issue an order confirming
that Petitioners’ suits are subject to the expedited litigation requirements of
Public Resources Code § 21168.6.9 and Rules of Court 3.2220-3.2231, and
establish a briefing schedule and trial date consistent with those
requirements.[1] 
Public Resources Code section 21168.6.9(d) states: 
On
or before January 1, 2023, the Judicial Council shall adopt rules of court that
apply to any action or proceeding brought to attack, review, set aside, void,
or annul the certification of an environmental impact report for an
environmental leadership transit project or the granting of any project
approval that require the action or proceeding, including any potential appeals
to the court of appeal or the Supreme Court, to be resolved, to the extent
feasible, within 365 calendar days of the filing of the certified record of
proceedings with the court. 
A.        Standard
of Review
Metro contends that whether the project qualifies as
an “environmental leadership transit project” under section 21168.6.9 should be
decided under the substantial evidence standard of review, because it is a
factual determination based on the project’s specific features, operations, and
impacts. Metro also argues that the application of section 21168.6.9 should be
reviewed for substantial compliance, saying that strict compliance is not
necessary if the fundamental objectives and intent of the law are met. 
Petitioners argue that whether the statute applies to
these cases is a legal question to be reviewed de novo. They contend that even
if factual determinations are involved, mixed questions of law and fact still should
be subject to independent review. 
The Court finds that the substantial evidence
standard of review applies. Determining whether a project qualifies as an
“environmental leadership transit project” under section 21168.6.9 is a factual
determination that involves assessing whether the project applicant meets
certain conditions laid out in the statute. For instance, the conditions
require that the fixed guideway operate at zero emissions, reduce emissions,
reduce vehicle miles traveled in the corridor of the project, be consistent
with the applicable regional transportation plan, incorporate sustainable
infrastructure practices, and be located wholly within the County of Los
Angeles or connect to an existing transit project within the County. And the
record of proceedings must be prepared in accordance with the applicable
statute. (See Pub. Resources Code § 21168.6.9 subd. (a)(1)(A)-(H).) 
Metro has shown that the determination of an
“environmental leadership transit project” is like an agency’s determination
regarding a statutory exemption because both require an evaluation of whether
specific elements or conditions are met. See Coast Rivers Alliance v.
Westlands Water Dist. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 832, 850 (in determining
whether to uphold an agency’s reliance on a statutory exemption, the courts
review “the administrative record to see that substantial evidence supports
each element of the exemption”), and Lucas v. City of Pomona (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 508, 538 (“In determining whether an agency’s findings concerning
the use of a statutory exemption from CEQA may be upheld, we review the
administrative record to see that substantial evidence supports each element of
the exemption.”) The substantial evidence standard is consistent with the goals
of section 21168.6.9. 
 “Substantial
evidence” is “enough relevant information and reasonable inferences from this
information that a fair argument can be made to support a conclusion, even
though other conclusions might also be reached.” (Pub. Resources Code
§15384(a). 
B.        Request
for Judicial Notice
            The Court GRANTS Metro’s request for
judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452 (b), (c), (d), and (h).
C.        Analysis
To determine whether the Project is eligible for
section 21168.6.9 streamlining, it must meet the requirements for an
environmental leadership transit project. 
1.         Environmental Leadership Transit Project
Section 21168.6.9 sets forth the requirements and
definitions for an “Environmental Leadership Transit Project.” To qualify, the
project must be a “fixed guideway” within the meaning of 49 U.S.C. § 5302 that meets
these conditions: 
(A) The fixed guideway operates at zero emissions.
(B)        (i) If the project is more than two
miles in length, the project reduces emissions by no less than 400,000 metric
tons of greenhouse gases directly in the corridor of the project defined in the
applicable environmental document over the useful life of the project, without
using offsets.
(ii) If the project is no more than two miles in
length, the project reduces emissions by no less than 50,000 metric tons of
greenhouse gases directly in the corridor of the project defined in the
applicable environmental document over the useful life of the project, without
using offsets.
(C) The project reduces no less than 30,000,000
vehicle miles traveled in the corridor of the project defined in the applicable
environmental document over the useful life of the project.
(D) The project is consistent with the applicable
sustainable communities strategy or alternative planning strategy.
(E) The project is consistent with the applicable
regional transportation plan.
(F) The project applicant demonstrates how it has
incorporated sustainable infrastructure practices to achieve sustainability,
resiliency, and climate change mitigation and adaptation goals in the project,
including principles, frameworks, or guidelines as recommended by one or more
of the following:
(i) The sustainability, resiliency, and climate
change policies and standards of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
(ii) The Envision Rating System of the Institute for
Sustainable Infrastructure.
(iii) The Leadership in Energy and Environment
Design (LEED) rating system of the United States Green Building Council.
(G) The environmental leadership transit project is
located wholly within the County of Los Angeles or connects to an existing
transit project wholly located in the County of Los Angeles.
(H) For a project meeting the requirements of
subparagraphs (A) to (G), inclusive, for which the environmental review
pursuant to this division has commenced before January 1, 2022, the project
applicant demonstrates that the record of proceedings is being, or has been,
prepared in accordance with subdivision (f).
(§
21168.6.9 subdiv. (a)(1).) As noted, “fixed guideway” has the same meaning as in
Section 5302(8) of Title 49 of the United States Code:
(8) Fixed guideway.—The term “fixed guideway” means
a public transportation facility—
(A) using and occupying a separate right-of-way for
the exclusive use of public transportation;
(B) using rail;
(C) using a fixed catenary system;
(D) for a passenger ferry system; or
(E) for a bus rapid transit system.
(49 U.S.C., § 5302(8).) The term “public
transportation” is defined under federal law as “regular, continuing
shared-ride surface transportation that are open to the general public.” (49
U.S.C. § 5302(15).)
a.         Fixed Guideway
Metro asserts that there is substantial evidence to
support that the Project is a “fixed guideway” and therefore “public
transportation” because it is a fixed aerial tramway that will be open to the
public for service at regular, scheduled operating times. The Project “would
provide an aerial rapid transit (ART) option for visitors to Dodger Stadium,
while also providing access between the Dodger Stadium property, the
surrounding communities . . . and the Los Angeles State Historic Park, to the
regional transit system accessible at [Union Station] . . . . The proposed
Project would operate daily to serve existing residents, workers, park users,
and visitors to Los Angeles.” And the “Project [would] never close to the
general public when operating” but may vary service levels consistent with
other public transit projects to meet demand while still operating “under a
pre-determined regular operating schedule.” 
In opposition, Petitioners contend that the Project
does not use a “fixed catenary system” as defined in 49 U.S.C. section 5302
subdivision (8)(C), which involves overhead wires supplying electricity to
vehicles with pantographs. Petitioners also say the Project’s operations are
not “regular” and “continuing,” as defined under 49 U.S.C. section 5302, as
they vary based on demand and are scheduled at the operator’s discretion on
non-game and non-event days. Petitioners claim that the Project occasionally
prioritizes Dodgers ticket holders and uses a timed reservation system on busy
days, potentially limiting access for the public. Since the Project operates as
an aerial tramway, Petitioners state this is not “surface transportation.”
Petitioners also point out that by Real Party’s own assertions, the Project is
an “aerial ropeway” system to a specific location akin to a courtesy shuttle,
“not a ‘transit guideway system.’” 
In reply, Metro asserts that the Project uses and
occupies a separate and exclusive right-of-way, which is secured through a
franchise agreement with the City of Los Angeles, and no other entity can use
its airspace or ground points. Metro contends that right-of-way exclusivity in
public transportation means functional and temporal control, not physical
separation. Metro claims the Project also qualifies as a “fixed guideway”
because it uses a “fixed catenary system:” a transit system with a route fixed
between two points using a cable that forms a catenary shape. 
Metro has provided substantial evidence supporting
the Project’s classification as a “fixed guideway” and therefore “public
transportation” under 49 U.S.C. § 5302. The evidence shows that the Project
operates as a fixed aerial tramway, with an exclusive right-of-way secured
through a franchise agreement with the City of Los Angeles, and it serves the
public at regular, scheduled operating times. The Project’s use of cables
forming a catenary shape satisfies the broad definition of a “fixed catenary
system.” This interpretation is consistent with federal guidelines, which
recognize aerial tramways as a type of fixed guideway.
Metro’s interpretation of the term “exclusive
right-of-way” is reasonable. The exclusivity is functional and temporal, as
evidenced by the Project’s secured airspace and ground points, even if certain
surface components are shared with private vehicles. This aligns with the
broader understanding of exclusive right-of-way in public transportation, where
functional control is paramount. The Project’s separate and exclusive
right-of-way is secured through a franchise agreement with the City of Los
Angeles; the presence of surface components within existing city rights-of-way
does not negate the Project’s exclusive use for public transportation; the
definition of exclusive right-of-way includes functional and temporal control.
While operating schedules may vary to meet demand,
there is substantial evidence to show that the Project maintains a regular
operating schedule consistent with other public transit systems. Adjustments to
speed and capacity to meet demand are standard in public transportation and do
not undermine the regularity or continuity of service. The Project’s
integration with Metro’s Transit Assistance Program and its role in connecting
key areas such as Union Station, Chinatown, and Dodger Stadium confirm its function
as public transportation. 
Metro has met its burden of proving the Project’s
compliance with the statutory requirements of a “fixed guideway” system.[2]

b.         Reduction of GHG Emissions and VMT
Metro argues that the Project will reduce greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions by 166,653 metric tons of carbon dioxide over the Project’s
useful life and result in 129,29,400 vehicle miles traveled (VMT) over its
useful life, which exceeds the minimum requirements set by section 21168.6.9. 
Petitioners assert that the Final EIR’s calculations
of required VMT and GHG reductions fail to account for the “whole of the
action,” omitting the reasonably foreseeable future development of parking lots
around Dodger Stadium that would result from the Project. Petitioners
claim that during the environmental review process, LAPA and
other public commenters provided substantial evidence that development of the
parking lots was likely to follow Project approval. 
Under CEQA, a “project” encompasses the whole action
that may result in a physical change in the environment. (14 Cal. Code Regs. §
15378, subd. (a).) Failure to analyze the whole action constitutes improper
“piecemealing.” (Banning Ranch Conservancy v. City of Newport Beach (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 1209, 1222.) Under Laurel Heights Improvement
Association v. Regents of University of California (1998) 47 Cal.3d
376, environmental effects of a future action must be analyzed if the future
action is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the initial project and would
significantly change the scope or nature of the initial project or its
environmental effects. 
Metro relies on Berkeley Keep Jets Over the
Bay Committee v. Board of Port Commissioners (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
1344, to show that potential future actions mentioned in early planning
documents do not become reasonably foreseeable parts of a current, clearly-defined
project. Metro argues that Petitioners have not provided evidence of current
plans to develop the Dodger Stadium parking lots, much less any firm commitment
to such development. 
            Metro has provided substantial
evidence that the Project’s VMT and GHG reduction estimates comply with section
21168.6.9. The Project’s primary purpose is to provide public transportation
connecting Union Station to Dodger Stadium, Chinatown, Los Angeles State
Historic Park, and Elysian Park. Petitioners have not provided sufficient
evidence that development of the Dodger Stadium parking lots is a reasonably
foreseeable consequence of the Project. 
The Project’s improvements also are consistent with
the existing Conditional Use Permit and CC&Rs for Dodger Stadium, which
allow for mass transportation service collaboration without authorizing new
development. And the Project has distinct and independent utility, serving as a
mass transportation link irrespective of any potential future development; the
Project is expected to move approximately 967,800 riders in its first year. Metro
has met its burden of providing substantial evidence to support the Project's
VMT and GHG reduction estimates.  
c.         Zero Emissions
Metro states that the Project will operate with zero
emissions, fulfilling the requirements of section 21168.6.9, subdivision
(a)(1)(A), because the project’s guideway is powered by electricity which will
be supplied by the City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP)
through its Green Power Program. This program ensures that the electricity used
by the guideway comes from renewable resources, resulting in no greenhouse gas
(GHG) or criteria pollutant emissions. This satisfies the requirement that the
Project operate at zero emissions. 
            d.         Sustainable
Communities Strategy and Regional Transportation Plan
Metro argues that the Project is consistent with the
applicable sustainable communities strategy and alternative planning strategy,
and applicable regional transportation plan, as required by section 21168.6.9,
subdivisions (a)(1)(D)-(E). In September, the Southern California Association
of Governments (SCAG) approved the 2020-2045 Regional Transportation
Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy (RTP/SCS), called Connect SoCal, which
outlines ten main goals, all of which the Project supports. The Project
enhances mobility, accessibility, reliability, and travel choices for those
traveling to major event locations like Dodger Stadium and improves transit
services to nearby communities. The Project contributes to reduced greenhouse
gas emissions by cutting down on vehicle miles traveled (VMT). SCAG agrees that
the Project aligns with Connect SoCal. This satisfies the sustainable
communities strategy and regional transportation plan requirement.
            e.         Incorporation
of Sustainable Infrastructure Practices
Metro contends that the Project fully integrates
sustainable infrastructure practices, meeting the criteria in section
21168.6.9, subdivision (a)(1)(F). Metro evaluated the Project using the
Envision Rating System of the Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure and the
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) system for Building Design
and Construction. These assessments confirmed that the Project includes
features that promote sustainability, resiliency, and the mitigation and
adaptation to climate change. The Project also minimizes impacts on historic
and archaeological resources, preserves local viewsheds and character, and
incorporates design elements like open-air station boarding platforms with
natural shading and ventilation. This satisfies the requirement. 
2.         Procedural Requirements of Section 21168.6.9
Metro argues that it complied with the procedural
requirements of section 21168.6.9 throughout the Project’s environmental review
process.
            a.         Public
Meetings
Metro states that it met all public meeting
requirements mandated by Section 21168.6.9 during the environmental review
process. Metro held two informational workshops, one virtual and one in-person,
within ten calendar days following the release of the draft EIR on October 17,
2022. Metro held four public hearings to receive comments on the draft EIR,
though only one such hearing was required. During these hearings, project
materials and information were made available to inform the public about the
draft EIR’s key analyses and conclusions, as they were at the informational
workshops. This satisfies the public meetings requirement.
            b.         Notice in
Draft and Final EIR; Required Documents; Notice of Determination; Certification
of Project’s Record of Proceedings; and Financial and Pay Requirements
Metro argues that it adhered to all procedural
requirements in section 21168.6.9 for the approval and review of the Project. Metro
included notices in both the Draft and Final EIRs indicating that the EIR and
any action challenging the Project’s approval are subject to Section 21168.6.9.
Metro made all required documents available in electronic format on the
Project’s website. Metro timely filed the Notice of Determination for the
Project. Metro certified the Project’s record of proceedings within the timing
requirements specified by Section 21168.6.9 And Metro entered into a Memorandum
of Agreement with the Real Party in Interest, in which the Real Party agreed to
reimburse all Metro costs. 
Metro also argues that both it and Real Party satisfied
the post-approval procedural requirements in section 21168.6.9 and the Rules of
Court. Metro lodged a certified copy of the record of proceedings with the
Superior Court pursuant to section 21168.6.9, subdivision (f)(8) and Rule
3.2225(a) of the Rules of Court. After receiving the petitions from the
petitioners on March 28, 2024, Metro submitted the required documents on April
4, 2024, within the 10-day deadline. In compliance with Rule of Court 3.2224,
both Metro and the Real Party filed their answers to the petition on April 8,
2024, ten days after the petitions were served. The Real Party also fulfilled
the financial obligations of Rule 3.2240(3) by paying $180,000 for Superior
Court costs on April 5, 2024, within the ten-day period after the petitions
were served. 
Metro has substantially complied with all procedural
requirements outlined in section 21168.6.9 for the approval and review of the
Project. 


