 Case Number:  24STCV18692    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  14 #7Case Background
This is an action for negligence, products liability,
fraudulent concealment, breach of implied warranty, and loss of consortium. Plaintiff
Luis Miguel Puentes Sanchez alleges he fell ill after inhaling toxic dust
generated by stone products manufactured and distributed by Defendants.
On July 26, 224, Plaintiffs Luis Miguel Puentes Sanchez
and Maria Gabriela Diaz Delgado filed their Complaint against a large number of
Defendants.
On September 12, 2024, IKEA US Retail, LLC filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On September 13, 2024, Angel of Stone, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On September 20, 2024, C&C North America, Inc.
filed a Cross-Complaint.
On September 23, 2024, Marble Bros, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On September 30, 2024, Costco Wholesale Corporation
filed a Cross-Complaint.
On October 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Doe Amendment
naming Georgia Stone Quarries, Inc. as a Defendant in this action.
On October 3, 2024, Francini, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On October 7, 2024, Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On October 8, 2024, Stone Supplies, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On October 9, 2024, Stoneville USA, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint.
On October 14, 2024, Defendant Qiu & C Corp (Qiu
& C) filed a Motion to Strike. 
On November 14, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Artisan Tile
& Stonework from this action.
On November 13, 2024, Wisonart LLC filed a
Cross-Complaint.
Instant Pleading
Defendant Qiu & C moves to strike Plaintiffs’
demands for punitive damages.
Decision
Defendant Qiu & C’s motion to strike is GRANTED.
The Court allows Plaintiff 15 days leave to amend.
Discussion
Defendant Qiu & C moves to strike Plaintiffs’
demand for punitive damages on the grounds that (1) the Complaint fails to
allege facts sufficient to support an award for punitive damages against it and
(2) the Complaint fails to plead that any act of fraud, malice, or oppression
was ratified by an officer, director or managing agent of Qiu & C.
In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the
elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section
3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704,
721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
“[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a
corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not imposed vicariously by
virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity
Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal entities
which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to
injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation
therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the
law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead,
the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders: the ‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent[s].’” (Cruz
v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [citation omitted].) As to
ratification, “[a] corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not
actually know about.’” (Ibid. [citing College Hospital, Inc.,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 726 [for ratification sufficient to justify
punitive damages against corporation, there must be proof that officers,
directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge of the malicious conduct and
its outrageous character]].) 
Qiu & C first argue that the Complaint fails to
allege that it engaged in any act of fraud, malice or oppression. The Complaint
contains a cause of action for fraudulent concealment against all Defendants,
including Qiu & C. If the cause of action for fraud is adequately pled, the
Complaint sufficiently pleads fraudulent conduct that supports a demand for
punitive damages.
The elements of fraud (i.e. intentional misrepresentation)
are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) 
Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendants were aware
of the toxic nature of their stone products which caused silicosis. (Compl.,
¶1207.) Plaintiff had a duty to disclose the toxic nature of the products to
Plaintiff Sanchez. (Compl., ¶1209-1212.) Defendants concealed the extreme
protective measures that were necessary to prevent fabricators and installers
from getting silicosis from exposure to Defendants’ products. (Compl., ¶1217.)
Defendants concealed the toxicity so that Plaintiff would use their products in
his work. (Compl., ¶1220.) Plaintiff would not have worked with the hazardous
materials if he knew of the hazards. (Compl., ¶1221.) As a result of
Defendants’ failure to disclose the toxic nature of their products, Plaintiff
sustained serious injuries. (Compl., ¶1223.)
The Complaint adequately pleads a cause of action for
fraudulent concealment against Qiu & C because it alleges that all
Defendants concealed the toxic nature of their products, that they knew of the
products’ toxicity, that they intended to induce Plaintiff to use their stone
products, that Plaintiff relied on the concealment when he used the stone
products, and that Plaintiff suffered damages as a result of the concealment.
Therefore, the Complaint adequately pleads fraudulent conduct which supports a
demand for punitive damages.
Qiu & C next argues that the Complaint fails to
state an officer, director, or managing agent ratified the alleged fraudulent
conduct. The Court agrees. Plaintiff failed to meet the requirements for
demanding punitive damages from a corporate defendant. Therefore, the motion to
strike filed by Defendant Qiu & C is GRANTED. Because this is a defect
which could be remedied with leave to amend, the Court will allow Plaintiff 15
days leave to amend.
Conclusion
Defendant Qiu & C’s motion to strike is GRANTED.
The Court allows Plaintiff 15 days leave to amend.