 Case Number:  23STCV30103    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  14 #5Case Background
Plaintiff alleges that his talent agents worked against
his best interests in the compensation negotiations for Plaintiff’s appearance
on the hit television show “Empire.”
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint for
(1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Constructive Fraud, and (3) Fraudulent
Concealment against Defendants Creative Artists Agency, LLC (“Creative
Artists”), David Bugliari, Jon Teiber, Michael Katcher, and DOES 1-10.
On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC).
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed this application
for Carlose E. Moore to be admitted pro hac vice.
On November 8, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Defendants
David Bugliari, Jon Teiber, and Michael Katcher from this action.
Instant Pleading
Carlose E. Moore applies for permission to appear pro
hac vice on behalf of Plaintiff.
Decision
The application is
GRANTED. Counsel Moore has complied with California Rules of Court Rule 9.40.
Discussion
Moore attests to his
residence address and his office address, which are both in Mississippi. (Moore
Decl., ¶1.) He attests to all the courts he has been admitted to (with dates of
admission) and that he is in good standing with the State Bars of Mississippi
and Tennessee and not currently suspended or disbarred from practice in any
court. (Id. at ¶¶ 3-5.) Moore submits the name and address of the active
California State Bar member with whom he is associated. (Id. at ¶7.) He also
attests to the title of each court and action in which he has appeared pro hac
vice in California in the preceding two years. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Further, the
requisite fee was sent to the State Bar of California, and the Notice of
Hearing and the instant application were served on all interested parties and
on the State Bar of California. (Application, Exh. 1; POS.)
Conclusion
The application is
GRANTED. Counsel Moore has complied with California Rules of Court Rule 9.40.