  Case Number:  19BBCV01099    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
4000 burbank, llc,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
elani kinoshita, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case No.:  19BBCV01099
 
Hearing Date:  May 17, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to unseal
  the record pursuant to stipulation
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.    Allegations
and Background 
Plaintiff 4000 Burbank, LLC commenced this unlawful detainer action
against Defendants Elani Kinoshita and Chad Tadashi Kinoshita on December 10,
2019.  The property at issue is located
at 4002-4004 West Burbank Blvd., Burbank, CA 91505.  Plaintiff is the landlord of the
property.  Plaintiff alleges that its
agent entered into a written agreement with the Kinoshitas on January 30, 2019
for a fixed term expiring January 31, 2024 with monthly rent of $13,700.  Plaintiff alleges that it served a 3-day
notice to pay rent or quit on November 14, 2019.  Plaintiff seeks possession of the premises,
past-due rent of $30,055, forfeiture of the agreement, reasonable attorney’s
fees, and damages of $456.67 per day from December 1, 2019 through the entry of
judgment. 
On December 31, 2019, Elani Kinoshita filed an answer to the complaint.

On January 7, 2020, the default of Chad Tadashi Kinoshita was
entered.  
On January 8, 2020, the default of All Unknown Occupants was entered. 
On January 27, 2020, Plaintiff’s counsel represented to the Court that
the case had settled.  The Court set an
OSC re: Dismissal, which was continued several times.  
On January 28, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Lodgment of Stipulation.  
On September 23, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Stipulation to Modify
Stipulated Judgment.  
On October 19, 2021, pursuant to the oral request of Plaintiff’s
counsel, the complaint was dismissed without prejudice.  The Court also stated that it would retain
jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all settlement terms, including
judgment, pursuant to CCP § 664.6. 
On September 29, 2023, the Court entered the Stipulation to Enter
Judgment, which was signed by the parties. 

B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to unseal the record
pursuant to the Stipulated Final Settlement entered on September 29, 2023. 
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            CRC
Rule 2.550 states in relevant part: 
(a) Application
(1) Rules 2.550-2.551 apply to records sealed or proposed to be
sealed by court order.
(2) These rules do not apply
to records that are required to be kept confidential
by law.
…
            (c) Court records
presumed to be open
Unless confidentiality is
required by law, court records are presumed to
be open.
(d) Express factual
findings required to seal records
The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.
(e) Content and scope of the order
(1) An order sealing the record must:
(A) Specifically state the facts that
support the findings; and
(B) Direct the sealing of only those
documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents
and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All
other portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.
(2) Consistent with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 639 and 645.1, if the records that a party is requesting be
placed under seal are voluminous, the court may appoint a referee and fix and
allocate the referee's fees among the parties.
(CRC Rule 2.550.)  
            CRC
Rule 2.551 states in relevant part: 
(a) Court approval required
A record must not be filed under seal without
a court order. The court must not permit a record to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.
…
(h) Motion,
application, or petition to unseal records
(1) A sealed
record must not be unsealed except on order of the court.
(2) A party or
member of the public may move, apply, or petition, or the court on its own
motion may move, to unseal a record. Notice of any motion, application, or
petition to unseal must be filed and served on all parties in the case. The
motion, application, or petition and any opposition, reply, and supporting
documents must be filed in a public redacted version and a sealed complete
version if necessary to comply with (c).
(3) If the court
proposes to order a record unsealed on its own motion, the court must give
notice to the parties stating the reason for unsealing the record. Unless
otherwise ordered by the court, any party may serve and file an opposition
within 10 days after the notice is provided and any other party may file a
response within 5 days after the filing of an opposition.
(4) In
determining whether to unseal a record, the court must consider the matters
addressed in rule 2.550(c)-(e).
(5) The order
unsealing a record must state whether the record is unsealed entirely or in
part. If the court's order unseals only part of the record or unseals the
record only as to certain persons, the order must specify the particular
records that are unsealed, the particular persons who may have access to the
record, or both. If, in addition to the records in the envelope, container, or
secure electronic file, the court has previously ordered the sealing order, the
register of actions, or any other court records relating to the case to be
sealed, the unsealing order must state whether these additional records are
unsealed.
(CRC Rule 2.551.)  
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff moves to
unseal the record pursuant to the terms of the September 29, 2023 Stipulated
Judgment.  Plaintiff argues that pursuant
to CCP § 128(a)(8) and the interests of justice, the Court must order that the
records be unsealed based on the parties’ Stipulation and Defendants’
default.  
            The Stipulated Judgment
states at paragraph 10: “The parties agree that the record [is] to remain
sealed so long as the defendants abide by the conditions herein by making all
payments and vacating by January 31, 2024 unless a default occurs before that
date.”  Paragraph 12 states that the
parties agree pursuant to CCP § 664.6 that the Court shall retain jurisdiction
to enforce the settlement agreement until the performance in full of its terms,
and the Court signed the Stipulated Judgment such that it has retained
jurisdiction over the matter.  
            In support of the
motion, Ken Fisher, property manager for Plaintiff, states that Defendants made
only a partial payment of the amounts due in October 2023, but they did not
make any of the final 6 payments due from November 2023 through January 2024.  (Fisher Decl., ¶¶3-4.)  Mr. Fisher states that due to Defendants’
default, Plaintiff requested a lockout by the Sheriff, which took place on or
about January 2, 202.  (Id.,
¶5.)  He states that Plaintiff is now
seeking to unseal the records in this action due to Defendants’ default under
the Stipulation.  (Id., ¶6.)  
            To the extent that
Plaintiff seeks to unseal the entirety of the documents filed in this case, the
Court notes that this case was not sealed in the first place.  For example, CCP § 1161.2(a)(1)
provides, at the time of filing, for limited access to limited
jurisdiction unlawful detainer case files; however, the complaint in this
action checks off the boxes that this is an unlimited unlawful detainer
action.  (See Compl. at Caption on page
1.)  To the extent that Plaintiff seeks
to unseal specific records, these records have not been specified such that the
Court cannot ascertain what documents Plaintiff seeks to unseal.[1]  
            As such, the motion to
unseal the records pursuant to the Stipulated Judgment is denied.  If Plaintiff is seeking to unseal particular
records that were sealed in this case, then it should file a motion that
specifically names those documents and addresses the factors in CRC Rule 2.550
and 2.551.  The few documents that have
been sealed were done so based on statutory policies, but the Court is open to
argument as to why unsealing of those documents is necessary. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff 4000 Burbank, LLC’s motion to unseal the record pursuant to
stipulation is denied without prejudice.  
Plaintiff shall give notice of this order.  
 
DATED: May 17,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


