 Case Number:  20BBCV00444    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
robin
  kim, as
  sole trustee of the MCINTOSH TRUST, a revocable living trust, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
yonatan rabin, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  20BBCV00444
 
  Hearing Date: May 17, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORder RE: 
application to amend judgment and post-judgment
  order to add betty jo mcintosh, individually and as trustee of the mcintosh
  trust as a judgment debtor and instructing los angeles county sheriff’s
  office to enforce judgment



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Robin Kim (“Plaintiff” or “Kim”),
as sole trustee of the McIntosh Trust (“Trust” or “MT”), commenced this action
against Defendants Yonatan Rabin and Liat Rabin and the company they owned and
operated, Defendant Sapphire Development & Construction, Inc. (“SDC”).[1]  Plaintiff alleges that the Trust owns real
property located at 926 Hilldale Ave., West Hollywood, CA 90069.  In 2016, the Trust, through its trustor Betty
Jo Kim McIntosh and trustee Plaintiff, pursued the prospect of developing the
property into residences for purposes of maximizing its value and ultimately
selling the residences.  The Trust alleged
that it engaged the Rabins, SDC, and Defendant Joseph Bernstein to handle all
aspects of the project.  Plaintiff alleged
that Defendants preyed on the Trust’s confidence in them and misrepresented
their qualifications to perform the work. 
 
The complaint, filed July 17, 2020,
alleges causes of action for: (1) intentional misrepresentation/fraudulent
inducement; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) negligence; (4) unfair competition;
(5) unjust enrichment; and (6) accounting. 
B.    
Relevant Background
The matter went to trial on July 5, 2023. Just
prior to the empanelment of the jury, Plaintiff Kim dismissed the 5th
cause of action for unjust enrichment with prejudice. The 1st
(fraud) and 3rd (negligence) causes of action were tried to the
jury, while the Court considered the 4th (unfair competition) and 6th
(accounting) causes of action based upon the evidence presented. The Court
dismissed the fraud cause of action against Liat Rabin at the close of
Plaintiff’s case. 
On July 19, 2023, the jury returned a
defense verdict on the 1st and 3rd causes of action as
against all Defendants. The Court stated that based on the findings of the
jury, with which the Court concurred, there was no basis upon which to grant
relief under the 4th and 6th causes of action, and that judgement
should therefore be entered for the defense. Judgment was entered on July 31,
2023. 
On August 3, 2023, the Court issued a
Statement of Decision regarding the 6th cause of action for
accounting.
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On April 22, 2024,
Defendants/Judgment Creditors Sapphire Development and Construction, Inc.,
Yonatan Rabin, and Liat Rabin (hereinafter, “Sapphire”) filed an ex parte
application to add Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, individually and as trustee of the
McIntosh Trust, as a judgment debtor in this action.  Sapphire also requests an order authorizing
and directing the Sheriff’s Office to levy the subject property, 926 Hilldale
Avenue, West Hollywood, CA 90069, and to take any further action necessary to
accomplish the execution of the outstanding judgment and order for payment. 
On April 23, 2024, the Court granted in
part the ex parte application and set the application as a noticed motion for
May 17, 2024.  The Court also ordered
that any representative of the McIntosh Trust was prohibited from transferring or
encumbering any of the subject property without a court order.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP § 128(a)(8)
states: 
(a) Every court shall have the power to do all of the
following:
…
(8) To amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. 
(CCP
§ 128(a)(8).)  
CCP § 187 states: “When jurisdiction is, by the
Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this code.”  Section 187 is an
equitable procedure to amend judgments. 
(Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v.
Weinberg (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.) CCP § 187 grants the Court
the power to use all means to carry its jurisdiction into effect.  
CCP § 473 states in relevant part: 
(a)(1) The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The
court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party,
allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be
made after the time limited by this code. 
…
(d) The court may,
upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes
in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party,
set aside any void judgment or order.
(CCP
§ 473.)  
DISCUSSION
            Sapphire moves to amend the
judgment to add Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, individually and as trustee of the
McIntosh Trust, as a judgment debtor in this action.  
Sapphire argues that judgment was entered
against Betty Jo McIntosh’s son, Robin Kim, as Trustee of the McIntosh Trust,
in favor of Sapphire on July 31, 2023. 
Sapphire argues that Robin Kim, as Trustee of the McIntosh Trust, was
the record owner of the property.  By way
of background, Sapphire argues that costs of suit were awarded to Sapphire
against Robin Kim in the amount of $37,159.64 and that $50,000 of post-trial
cost of proof was awarded to Sapphire, but that these amounts have not been
paid.  Sapphire argues that on May 5,
2022, the subject property was transferred by Grant Deed from Robin Kim, as
Trustee of the McIntosh Trust, to BRS Development, LLC (located at Robin Kim’s
office) for no consideration.  Then, on
March 4, 2023, BRS Development, LLC, by Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, transferred
title to the subject property to Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, Trustee of the McIntosh
Trust.  According to the McIntosh Trust
declaration, the settlor of the trust is Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, and the trust
is revocable.  Sapphire also cites to
Robin Kim’s FROG responses to Nos. 2.5, 7.1-7.3, 8.7-8.8, and 12.2-12.3,
arguing that Robin Kim has repeatedly claimed that Betty Jo McIntosh was a
“co-trustee” of the McIntosh Trust.  Thus,
Sapphire argues that as settlor and beneficiary of the revocable McIntosh
Trust, Betty Jo Kim McIntosh is liable, as a matter of law, for the judgment
and post-judgment order.  Sapphire argues
that by changing the name of the revocable trust from Robin Kim to Betty Jo
Kim, Robin Kim has rendered the outstanding judgment and cost award
unenforceable in its current form such that the Sheriff’s Office cannot enforce
the judgment.  
The Court grants
the motion to amend the judgment to add Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, as trustee of
the McIntosh Trust, as a judgment debtor in this action.  The Court also grants the request for an
order authorizing and directing the Sheriff’s Office to levy the subject
property, 926 Hilldale Avenue, West Hollywood, CA 90069, and to take any
further action necessary to accomplish the execution of the outstanding
judgment and order for payment. The Court does not see a basis to add Betty Jo
McIntosh to the judgment individually as neither she nor Robin Kim brought the
action in their individual capacity, but rather brought it on behalf of the
trust. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants/Judgment
Creditors Sapphire Development and Construction, Inc., Yonatan Rabin, and Liat
Rabin’s motion to amend the judgment to add Betty Jo Kim McIntosh, individually
and as trustee of the McIntosh Trust, as a judgment debtor in this action.  The Court also grants the request for an
order authorizing and directing the Sheriff’s Office to levy the subject
property, 926 Hilldale Avenue, West Hollywood, CA 90069, and to take any
further action necessary to accomplish the execution of the outstanding
judgment and order for payment. The Trustees of the McIntosh Trust are enjoined
from transferring any interest in the Hilldale property prior to the Sherriff’s
levy. 
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
                                                                                              
DATED: May 17,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court   


