 Case Number:  23BBCV00065    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
lauree
  james,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
smac entertainment, llc, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01804
    
Hearing
  Date:  May 17, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Lauree James (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on April 1, 2022 at approximately 1:30 p.m., Plaintiff was lawfully on the
premises of the Radford Studio Center, located at 4024 Radford Ave., Studio
City, CA 91604.  This action was filed
against Defendants SMAC Entertainment, LLC (“SMAC”), Sony Pictures Television,
Inc. (“Sony”), and Radford Studio Center, LLC (“Radford”).  
Plaintiff alleges she was on the premises
in the course of her employment as a prop master for the television show “The
Talk,” which was being taped at the premises. 
Plaintiff alleges at that time and place, she was exiting sound stage
number 16 when she encountered a dangerous condition, including but not limited
to a parked forklift with its forks lowered to the ground.  Plaintiff alleges it was parked in a manner
such that it was obstructed from Plaintiff’s view and its extended forklift
represented a tripping danger and a trap for pedestrians in Plaintiff’s
position.  
The complaint, filed January 11, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) premises liability; and (2) general
negligence.   
On June 9, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Trackdown Productions, Inc. as Doe 1 and Brett Crandall as
Doe 2.  
On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff and
Defendants Sony and SMAC stipulated that: (1) Plaintiff would dismiss Sony and
SMAC without prejudice; (2) Plaintiff retains the right to rename Sony and SMAC
should new evidence be discovered implicating them in the causes of action; and
(3) should Plaintiff rename Sony and SMAC, Sony and SMAC will not object on
statute of limitations grounds.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On November 27, 2023, Defendant Trackdown
Productions, Inc. (“Trackdown”) filed a motion for summary judgment to the
complaint on the grounds that the undisputed material facts establish no evidence
exists to demonstrate Trackdown's liability to Plaintiff for the two causes of
action alleged in the complaint, given that Plaintiff cannot establish the essential
elements. Trackdown also argues that its affirmative defense of “open and
obvious condition” negates the "duty" element of the premises
liability cause of action.  It also
argues that Plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence to support the elements of the two causes of action.  Thus, it argues that no triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action alleged against Trackdown, such
that Trackdown is entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law.
On April
26, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition papers.
On May 3,
2024, Defendants Radford Studio Center, LLC (“Radford”) and Brett Crandall
(“Crandall”) filed a joinder to Plaintiff’s opposition papers.  
On May
10, 2024, Trackdown filed reply papers to Plaintiff’s opposition.  Trackdown also filed opposition papers to Radford
and Crandall’s joinder.  
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            With the
opposition papers, Plaintiff submitted evidentiary objections to facts 20 and 21 in
Trackdown’s separate statement in support of the motion.  The objections to material facts are
improper.  If Plaintiff is objecting to
the facts, the proper way to respond to the separate statement is to dispute
the facts with opposing evidence.  The
objections to facts 20 and 21 in the separate statement is overruled.  
            With
the reply papers, Trackdown submitted evidentiary objections to Plaintiff’s
opposition evidence.  Trackdown objects
to Sako S. Bederian’s declaration at paragraphs 7, 15, and 16 (which reference
exhibits 5, 13, and 14, respectively). 
Objection Nos. 1-3 are overruled. 
    
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With
the joinder papers, Radford and Crandall seek judicial notice of: (1) Plaintiff’s
opposition brief and separate statement to the motion; and (2) Plaintiff’s
objection to evidence submitted with the opposition brief.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)
With the
joinder, Radford and Crandall
request that they partially join in
Plaintiff’s opposition at sections IV, V, and VI.  
DISCUSSION 
            Trackdown
moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint, arguing that: (1) it
cannot be liable for premises liability because it did not own, maintain,
manage, control, or operate the subject premises; (2) Plaintiff cannot
establish any of the elements of duty, breach, and causation; and (3) its “open
and obvious” affirmative defense negates the duty element.  
A.    1st cause of action for Premises Liability
The elements of a
premises liability claim based on negligence are: (1) defendant owed a duty of
care to plaintiff; (2) defendant breached that duty; and (3) the breach proximately
caused injury and damages. (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)   “Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm.” (Id.)
In the opposition brief, Plaintiff
states: “Plaintiff is not contesting the adjudication of her premises liability
cause of action in favor of Trackdown.  Plaintiff
acknowledges that Trackdown did not have control or ownership of the physical
area of the premises where the incident occurred.”  (Opp. at p.9.)  As this is in section IV of the opposition
papers, Radford and Crandall
join in Plaintiff’s arguments.  
In light of Plaintiff’s concession
that summary adjudication is appropriate on the 1st cause of action,
the Court is inclined to grant the motion as to the 1st cause of
action.  However, the Court notes that
Trackdown styled this motion as a motion for summary judgment only and did not
ask alternative relief for summary adjudication.  
B.     2nd cause of action for General Negligence 
The elements of a
negligence cause of action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.”  (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  
The following
facts are undisputed by the parties.  On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against SMAC, Sony Pictures
Television, Inc. (“SPT”), Trackdown, and Radford for premises liability and
general negligence.  (Fact 1.)  Trackdown is an indirect, wholly-owned
subsidiary of Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., which is the parent entity of SPT.  (Id. at 3.)  Trackdown is the production company for the
television game show “100,000 Pyramid” (the “Pyramid”).  (Id. at 4.)  On February 23, 2022, Trackdown entered into
a written Videotape Facilities Agreement (“Agreement”) under which Trackdown
rented stage space from Radford for the Pyramid’s sixth season.  (Id. at 5.)  Specifically, Trackdown rented stage 15 at
the premises; across from stage 15 is stage 16, where “The Talk” is
filmed.  (Id. at 6.)  Exhibit A to the Agreement requires “all
equipment… either provided within the Flat Facilities Fee or requested as excess,
including lifts and other rigging equipment and specialty equipment provided by
production personnel must be supplied exclusively by [Radford] regardless if
equipment is to be used on the premises or on location…”  (Id. at 7.)  Prior to April 1, 2022, Pyramid was filmed in
New York, and production was in the process of being moved to Los Angeles as of
April 1, 2022.  (Id. at 8.)  Trackdown has never been Plaintiff’s
employer, including on April 1, 2022, and has never had any involvement in the
production of “The Talk.”  (Id. at
9.)  During the setup for Pyramid on
Stage 15, pursuant to Paragraph 6(a) of the Agreement, Trackdown requested a
forklift from Radford from March 29, 2022 to April 1, 2022 to unload trucks
coming from New York with supplies and equipment; Radford contracted with
Teamsters Union Local 399 to hire a forklift driver.  (Id. at 10.)  After completing the 4-day job, Radford
invoiced Trackdown for the forklift and driver, Crandall; Trackdown paid the
invoice.  (Id. at 11.)  If Trackdown wanted to use its own forklift
and operator, it was not allowed to under the Agreement.  (Id. at 26.)  The way Crandall parked his forklift prior to
the incident created a tripping hazard. 
(Id. at 27.) 
Trackdown argues
that it owed Plaintiff no duty as it did not own the premises at which
Plaintiff fell, it was not responsible for the safety of individuals on the
premises, and the forklift was operated by Radford’s employee Crandall such
that Trackdown did not own or operate the subject forklift.  Trackdown provides the declaration of its
Executive in Charge of Production, Jim Tomlinson, who states that Trackdown did
not own or operate the subject forklift used by Crandall on the premises on
April 1, 2022, did not have control over how the forklift was used with respect
to the production of Pyramid, and had no notice of any dangerous condition on
the premises prior to April 1, 2022. 
(Fact 18.)  Trackdown argues that
Radford exclusively owned the forklift over which Plaintiff allegedly tripped
and fell at Radford Studios and that Radford was Crandall’s employer.  (Id. at 22-23.)  
Trackdown also
argues that it did not breach any duty to Plaintiff because Crandall was hired
by Radford to operate the forklift; Trackdown did not hire, retain, train,
control, supervise, or employ Crandall; and it did not give instructions to
Crandall other than where certain items should be moved.  (Id. at 12, 14, 15.)  Additionally, Trackdown argues that Plaintiff
cannot establish the element of “causation” because it did not own the premises
or the forklift, it was not responsible for the safety of individuals on the
premises, and it did not direct Crandall on how to park the forklift.  (Fact 15-18.) 

However,
in opposition, Plaintiff argues that Trackdown is liable under a respondeat
superior theory and that Trackdown owed a duty to Plaintiff by virtue of being
Crandall’s employer at the time of the incident.  According to the Agreement at paragraph 10
“Producer Control”: 
All
persons furnished by Studio [Radford] to Producer [Trackdown] in connection
with Producer’s use of the facilities provided hereunder, including, without
limitations, all so-called ‘below-the-line” employees, shall be governed by the
instructions and directions of Producer (all subject to the rules and
regulations heretofore or hereafter established by Studio governing Producer’s
use of Studio’s facilities and premises), and Producer understands and
acknowledges that Producer shall be solely liable and responsible for the acts
and omissions, negligent or otherwise, of all such persons while they are under
the direction and control of Producer.
(Pl.’s
Additional Material Facts [AMF] 4.)  Plaintiff
argues that Trackdown requested from Radford 2 forklifts and 2 operators for
the Pyramid and Crandall was assigned to Trackdown as a forklift operator,
making him a “below-the-line” employee per the Agreement who was governed by
the instructions and directions of Trackdown. 
(Pl.’s AMF 6-8; see Pl.’s Fact 18, 23.) 
Radford’s
PMK, David Mo, testified in his deposition that once a forklift was rented out
through an agreement, the safe monitoring, use, and operation of the forklift
was under the supervision of the production company.  (Bederian Decl., Ex. 3 [Mo Depo. at pp.75,
79]; see also Ex. 11 [Radford’s SROG responses at Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 8].)  In his
deposition, Crandall testified that while he could not recall the person in
particular, he reported to the key grip persons for lighting or electrical and
that it was the Pyramid crew that told him specifically what trucks to unload
and load for equipment inside the stage. 
(Pl.’s AMF 20; Crandall Depo. at pp.75-76.)  Plaintiff argues that Matthew Kwan, a “key
grip” employee of Trackdown, was in charge of instructing and directing
forklift drivers and Trackdown dictated the time of Crandall’s lunch breaks and
the duration of his employment.  (Pl’s
AMF. at 13-14.)  Plaintiff argues
that at the time of the incident, Crandall was under the control, direction,
and supervision of Trackdown, he was an employee of Trackdown, and Trackdown
had the ability to terminate Crandall (as opposed to Radford).  (Id. at 18-19, 22; Bederian Decl., Ex.
1 [Crandall Depo. at pp. 21, 77, 104 (stating that he was paid by the whoever was
running the show and not Radford, that he gets forklift directions form the
person in charge, and that the production company had the authority to
terminate him).)  Plaintiff also provides
evidence that Crandall’s wages were paid through Entertainment Partners, a
payroll company on behalf of Radford, which Trackdown reimbursed Radford 100%
for Crandall’s wages, plus Trackdown paid 55.75% of Crandall’s payroll benefits,
such that Crandall’s wages were ultimately paid by Trackdown.  (Pl.’s AMF 25-27.)  
Here, the Court finds that there is a triable issue of material fact
regarding whether Trackdown owed a duty to Plaintiff based on the theory that
it was the employer of Crandall at the time the forklift was being rented from
Radford and operated by Crandall pursuant to the Agreement.  There is also a triable issue of material
fact regarding whether Trackdown breached this duty when Crandall, who was
trained to place warning cones for pedestrians, failed to place cones or signs
to warn people about the forklift’s forks at the time of the incident.  (Pl.’s AMF 35-36.)  Although the forklift was owned by Radford,
there are triable issues of material fact regarding whether Trackdown assumed
control over the forklift once it became the lessee/possessory owner of the
forklift and whether it became the employer of Crandall based on  the terms of the Agreement.  (Pl.’s Fact 18, 23.)
With respect to Trackdown’s “open and obvious” affirmative defense,
the Court finds there are triable issues of material fact as to the defense as
well.  “[B]ecause
the possessor or operator of a given premises is not an insurer of the safety
of invitees onto his premises, he is entitled to assume that any such
invitee will perceive that which should be obvious to him in the ordinary use
of his senses.”  (Danieley v. Goldmine
Ski Associates, Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 111, 121.) However, the
fact that Plaintiff traversed the area, she did not see the allegedly dangerous
condition, or the condition was “open and obvious” does not mean that Trackdown
is not liable for Plaintiff’s injury.  (See Roberts
v. Patterson (1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 661, 667; Garber v. Los Angeles (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 349, 358.)  The fact that a
hazard is open and obvious does not relieve a landowner of all possible duty,
or breach of duty, with respect to it. 
“The modern and controlling law on this subject is that although the
obviousness of a danger may obviate the duty to warn of its existence, if it is
foreseeable that the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is
obvious, . . . there may be a duty to remedy the danger, and the breach of
that duty may in turn form the basis for liability.”  (Martinez
v. Chippewa Enters., Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184 [quotation
marks and emphasis omitted]; Donohue v.
San Francisco Housing Authority (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 658, 665 [stating the
obvious danger exception is in reality a recharacterization of the assumption
of the risk doctrine, which has now been merged with comparative negligence and
may relieve a property owner of a duty to warn, but does not absolve him of the
duty to remedy the condition].) 
Furthermore, “[i]t is well settled that, in the absence of notice or
knowledge to the contrary, a pedestrian making normal use of the [walkway] has
a right to assume that it is in reasonably safe condition, and while he must
use ordinary care for his personal safety and make reasonable use of his
faculties to avoid injury to himself, he is not required to keep his eyes fixed
on the ground or to be on a constant lookout for danger.” (Peters v. City & County of San Francisco (1953) 41 Cal.2d 419,
424, superseded on different grounds.)  
Trackdown argues
that on April 1, 2022 around 1:30 p.m., Crandall parked the forklift on “My
Three Sons Street” on the premises on the side of building house stage 16,
where Plaintiff was working, such that the forklift tines were on the ground
and “poking out” past stage 16.  (Fact
19.)  Trackdown argues that Plaintiff was
not paying attention to her surroundings or her own safety as she walked across
the production lot.  (Id. at
20.)  It argues that the forklift was
clearly visible to anyone exiting stage 16 from the “entrance only” door where
Plaintiff exited.  (Id. at
21.)  However, a reasonable person could
find that the roadway/walkway surface where Plaintiff was traversing may pose a
substantial risk of harm to other pedestrians because a person walking while
looking straight forward may not have had the ability to perceive the condition
of the ground, particularly as there were no cones or signs to warn pedestrians
that the forklift forks’ tips were lowered to the ground and constituted a
tripping hazard.  (See Pl.’s AMF 32-36.)  Radford’s PMK, Mr. Mo, also opined that the
forklift constituted a tripping hazard because it was parked in an
inappropriate area at the exit.  (Mo
Depo. at pp.92, 94, 98; Pl.’s Fact 21.)  Thus,
the Court finds that there is a triable issue of material fact as to the
application of the affirmative defense. 
            Thus, the
motion is denied as to the 2nd cause of action for general
negligence.  
            As
indicated above, while Plaintiff concedes that summary adjudication is proper
as to the 1st cause of action, Trackdown only brought this motion as
a motion for summary judgment.  As
Trackdown did not bring or notice this motion as a motion for summary adjudication
in the alternative to summary judgment, the Court cannot grant summary
adjudication on the 1st cause of action.  (CRC Rule 3.1350(b).)  As such, the motion for summary judgment is
denied.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Defendant Trackdown
Productions, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment is denied.  
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: May 17, 2024                                              ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 