 Case Number:  24BBCV00352    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
SAN JAC FACILITIES LLC,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
PROMISE ENERGY, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00024
 
  Hearing Date:  May 17, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Demurrer to complaint or in the
  alternative motion to compel mediation AND ARBITRATION



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiffs San Jac Facilities LLC
(“SJ Facilities”), Robertson Caregivers Beverlywood (“Robertson Caregivers”),
and Cabot Re LLC (“Cabot”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege that Defendant
Promise Energy, Inc. (“Promise Energy”) stole $500,000 in funds from Plaintiffs
through a series of 3 fraudulently induced contracts and material misrepresentations
regarding urgency to find the proposed projects in order to participate in the
Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 tax credits and other incentives.  Plaintiffs allege that Promise Energy, through
its Executive Vice President Defendant Patrick Castro (“Castro”), engaged in
deceptive and fraudulent actions and made false material representations to
induce 3 separate contracts (dated January 26, 2023) and obtain over $500,000
in payments for the design and installation of co-generation and chiller plant
equipment.  Plaintiffs allege that
Promise Energy and Castro falsely represented to Plaintiffs that they were
licensed contractors and authorized/equipped to perform co-generation and
chiller plant equipment design and installation services.  Plaintiffs allege that despite Promise Energy
and Castro’s representations, Plaintiffs were never at risk of losing out on
tax credits and other financial incentives by the Inflation Reduction Act of
2022 and they lied to create a false sense of urgency.  Plaintiffs allege that Promise Energy and
Castro represented to Plaintiffs that each contract would be contingent upon
Plaintiffs’ ability to obtain financing and that any money paid upfront would
be refunded, but Promise Energy never intended to refund any money paid
upfront.  Plaintiffs also allege that
Promise Energy and Castro had no intention of performing the work because they
were not properly licensed. 
            Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
Adam Boucher is the CEO of Promise Energy, Defendant Charlie Kuffner is an
officer of Promise Energy, and Defendant Lisa Schieber is the
controller/manager of Promise Energy.   Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Hudson
Insurance Company (“Hudson”) underwrote and provided in their capacity as a
surety, a Contractor’s License Bond No. 10070467 in the penal sum of $25,000 on
the California State Contractor’s License of Promise Energy, and assumes the
liability of Promise Energy.  Plaintiffs
also allege that Defendant Platt River Insurance Company underwrote and
provided in their capacity as a surety, a Qualifying Individual Bond, for
Defendant Charlie Kuffner (No. 2713743) in the amount of $25,000 on the
California State Contractor’s License of Promise Energy, and assumes the
liability of Promise Energy and Kuffner.
The complaint, filed February 9, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) actual fraud; (3)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4) disgorgement; (5)
action on surety bond I; (6) action on surety bond II; (7) P.C. 496; and (8)
violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200.  
On March 21, 2024, Hudson Insurance
Company filed a cross-complaint against SJ Facilities, Robertson Caregivers,
Cabot, and Promise Energy for: (1) declaratory relief; and (2) interpleader. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On April 12, 2024, Defendants Promise
Energy, Boucher, Kuffner, Schieber, Castro, and Platt filed a demurrer to the
complaint.  In the alternative,
Defendants request that if the Court does not sustain the demurrer without
leave to amend and dismiss the case, then in the alternative, the Court should
compel mediation and arbitration.  
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Notice of Errata re: Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s motion to compel
mediation and arbitration.  On May 7,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an Opposition to the demurrer and supplemental
opposition to the motion to compel mediation and arbitration.  
On May 10, 2024, Defendants filed a single
reply brief to both oppositions. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants demur to the 1st
to 8th causes of action in the complaint, arguing that each of the
claims arise from the 3 agreements, which include mediation and arbitration
provisions.  They argue that the causes
of action are within the scope of the contractual provisions, including claims
against nonsignatory Defendants, such that the complaint is subject to a
demurrer.  Defendants have brought this
request as a demurrer with an alternative request to compel mediation and
arbitration.  Defendants cite to Schatz v. Allen Matkins Leck Gamble & Mallory LLP
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 557, which states: 
Either a demurrer or a
motion for summary judgment offers an appropriate procedural vehicle, in
addition to a motion to compel arbitration (id., § 1281.2), for pointing
out to the court that the plaintiff has no right to sue because he or she has
agreed to arbitrate. (Charles J. Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters
No. 42 (1971) 4 Cal.3d 888, 899, 95 Cal.Rptr. 53, 484 P.2d 1397.)
Therefore, for a person who has agreed in writing to arbitrate a dispute, the
right to “a trial” (§ 6204, subd. (a)) granted in the MFAA would appear to be
subject to a demurrer or summary judgment motion designed to compel contractual
arbitration.
(Schatz
v. Allen Matkins Leck Gamble & Mallory LLP (2009) 45 Cal.4th 557, 572–573.)  
As the discussion
regarding the demurrer and the request to compel arbitration are essentially
intertwined, the Court will consider the requests together.  The Court will consider the merits of the
motion to compel mediation and arbitration first as the demurrer may be moot if
the motion to compel is granted.  
Defendants cite to the 3 agreements at
issue, which are attached to the complaint as Exhibits A-C: (A) the agreement
between SJ Facilities and Promise Energy, dated January 26, 2023; (B) the
agreement between Robertson Caregivers and Promise Energy, dated January 26,
2023; and (C) the agreement between Cabot and Promise Energy, dated January 26,
2023.  Defendants state that though the
signatory parties differ, the terms are identical.  
The dispute
resolution terms in the agreements state:
ARTICLE 5 DISPUTE RESOLUTION
§ 5.1 BINDING DISPUTE RESOLUTION
For
any claim subject to, but not resolved by, mediation pursuant to Section 21.3,
the method of binding dispute resolution shall be as follows: 
[ X ] Arbitration pursuant to Section 21.4 of this Agreement 
(Compl.,
Ex. A, § 5.1; Ex. B, § 5.1, Ex. C, § 5.1.) 

            The
mediation and arbitration terms in the agreements at Article 21 state in
relevant part: 
            ARTICLE 21 CLAIMS AND DISPUTES
§
21.1 Claims, disputes and other matters in question arising out of or relating
to this Contract, excluding those arising under Section 16.2, shall be referred
initially to the Owner for decision. Such matters, except those waived as
provided in Section 21.8 and Sections 15.5.3 and 15.5.4, shall, after initial
decision by the Owner or 30 days after submission of the matter to the Owner,
be subject to mediation as a condition precedent to binding dispute resolution.

§
21.2 If a claim, dispute or other matter in question relates to or is the
subject of a mechanic's lien, the party asserting such matter may proceed in
accordance with applicable law to comply with the lien notice or filing
deadlines.
§
21.3 The parties shall endeavor to resolve their disputes by mediation which
shall be administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance
with their Construction Industry Mediation Rules, Procedures & Protocol in
effect on the date of the Agreement. A request for mediation shall be made in
writing, delivered to the other party to this Agreement, and filed with the
person or entity administrating the mediation. The request may be made
concurrently with the binding resolution but, in such event, mediation shall
proceed in advance of binding dispute resolution proceedings, which shall be
stayed pending mediation for a period of 60 days from the data filing, unless
stayed for a longer period by agreement of the parties or court order. 
§
21.4 Either party, at its sole discretion, may consolidate and arbitration
conducted under this Agreement with any other arbitration to which it is a
party provided that (1) the arbitration agreement governing the other
arbitration permits consolidation; (2) the arbitrations to be consolidated
substantially involve common questions of law or fact; and (3) the arbitrations
employ materially similar procedural rules and methods for selecting
arbitrator(s).
§
21.5 Any party to an arbitration may include by joinder persons or entities
substantially involved in a common question of law or fact whose presence is
required if complete relief is to be accorded in arbitration provided that the
party sought to be joined consents in writing to such joinder. Consent to
arbitration involving an additional person or entity shall not constitute
consent to arbitration of a Claim not described in the written Consent. 
§
21.6 The foregoing agreement to arbitrate and other agreements to arbitrate
with an additional person or entity duly consented to by the parties to the
Agreement shall be specifically enforceable under applicable law in any court
having jurisdiction thereof.
§
21.7 In case of a dispute, the prevailing party shall be reimbursed for all of
their legal and claims related expenses by the party that did not prevail.
(Compl.,
Ex. A, Art. 21; Ex. B, Art. 21; Ex. C, Art. 21.)
Defendants argue that there exist valid
agreements to arbitrate as the basis for this action are the 3 agreements that
Plaintiffs have attached to their complaint. 
Defendants argue that because Plaintiffs have sued for breach of
contract, the agreements are presumed valid and enforceable, including the
arbitration provisions.  In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that they did not ignore the mediation and arbitration
provisions by filing the action in Court. 
Plaintiffs argue that while they do not dispute that the subject
agreements and their arbitration provisions exist, they contend that the
dispute resolution provisions are void and cannot be enforced against
Plaintiffs because they were fraudulently induced by Defendants’
misrepresentations. 
In their opposition briefs,
Plaintiffs cite to various cases for the proposition that parties alleging they
were fraudulently induced to enter a contract may rescind a contract and undo
the transaction in its entirety.  (See Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 234; Denevi v. LGCC, LLC (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1211, 1220.)  However, neither the Chapman case nor
the Denevi case involved an arbitration provision, and neither dealt
with the issue where the plaintiffs sued for breach of contract and yet claimed
that they were fraudulently induced to enter the contract.  
While Plaintiffs argue that the agreements
were entered by fraudulent inducement, they also argue that Defendants breached
the agreements by failing to perform under the agreements by demanding and
accepting up-front money for work they never performed, failing to provide
design and installation services, and failing to perform the significant
portions of the contract.  (See Compl.,
¶¶29-37.)  Plaintiffs seek relief in the
amount of $505,000 for breach of contract. 
(Id., ¶38.)  Here,
Plaintiffs rely on the agreements as the basis for the action against
Defendants.  (See e.g., Davis
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2024) 100
Cal.App.5th 825, 834 [“Equitable estoppel precludes a party from asserting rights
they otherwise would have had against another when their own conduct renders
assertion of those rights inequitable.”], 837 [“Equitable estoppel would apply if the plaintiffs
had sued [nonsignatory] [Nissan] based on the terms of the sale contract yet
denied [Nissan] could enforce the arbitration clause in that contract.”].)  In other words, Plaintiffs cannot have it
both ways—seeking to sue for breach of contract under the 3 agreements, yet
denying that the agreements (including the dispute resolution provisions) are
valid and enforceable.  
With respect to nonsignatories, the
dispute resolution provision provides in section 21.5 that any party to the
arbitration may include by joinder, persons or entities substantially involved
in a common question of law or fact whose presence is required if complete
relief is to be accorded and if they consent to the joinder.  Section 21.4 also provide that arbitrations
may be consolidated where the arbitrations substantially involve common questions of
law or fact.  Here, each of the
Plaintiffs (SJ Facilities, Robertson Caregivers, and Cabot) are signatories to
one of the three agreements at issue in this action and each provide the same
provision that arbitration may be consolidated. 
According to the allegations of the complaint, the three agreements were
entered on January 26, 2023 based essentially on the same underlying facts.  (Compl., ¶23.)  With respect to Defendants, Promise Energy is
the only signatory to the three agreements. 
However, the demurrer/motion to compel arbitration is brought by Promise
Energy, Boucher, Kuffner, Schieber, Castro, and Platt River Insurance Company,
such that these Defendants have joined together and consented to submitting to arbitration.  The only Defendant that has not joined in
this demurrer/motion to compel arbitration is Hudson Insurance Company.  (The only cause of action alleged against
Hudson is the 5th cause of action for action on the surety
bond.)  
Based
on the above, the Court grants Defendants’ alternative motion to compel mediation
and arbitration.  The Court will order
the complaint to be submitted to mediation and arbitration, but the action will
be stayed regarding the claims against Hudson. 
In light of the ruling on the motion to compel, the demurrer will be
taken off-calendar.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendants Promise
Energy, Inc., Adam Boucher, Charlie Kuffner, Lisa Schieber, Patrick Castro, and
Platt River Insurance Company filed a demurrer o the complaint with an
alternative motion to compel mediation and arbitration.  The Court has considered the merits of the
motion to compel mediation and arbitration first as the demurrer may be moot if
the motion to compel is granted.  The
Court grants the motion to compel mediation and arbitration, such that
Plaintiffs’ claims in the complaint against Defendants Promise Energy, Inc.,
Adam Boucher, Charlie Kuffner, Lisa Schieber, Patrick Castro, and Platt River
Insurance Company shall be subject to mediation and arbitration.  The remainder of the action against Defendant
Hudson Insurance Company shall be stayed pending the resolution of the
mediation and arbitration.  
In light of the
ruling on the motion to compel mediation and arbitration, the demurrer is taken
off-calendar. 
The Court sets a
Status Conference re Arbitration for November 27, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
May 17, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 