 Case Number:  23BBCV02341    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Ophelia adame, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
the shamsi law
  firm a professional corporation, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02341
 
Hearing
  Date:  May 17, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
This action involves a legal malpractice
action brought by Plaintiff Ophelia Adame (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants The
Shamsi Law Firm a Professional Corporation (“Shamsi Firm”) and attorney Shahab
Sean Shamsi (“Mr. Shamsi”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  
Plaintiff alleges that the underlying
action involved a slip-and-fall incident that occurred on September 23, 2020 at
a Cardenas Market.  She alleges that she
promptly retained the legal services of Shamsi Firm on September 29, 2020.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to
act as an advocate who would fight on her behalf and allow her to focus on her
recovery.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
failed to obtain and/or safeguard actual evidence, effectively abandoned their
client rather than pursue her claims, and let the statute of limitations run on
the underlying matter.  Plaintiff alleges
that she did not discover Defendants’ failure to properly represent her until
July 2023.  Plaintiff alleges that on
July 18, 2023, Defendants delivered to Plaintiff a letter purportedly dated
November 29, 2022 wherein they notified her that they decided not to pursue the
case on her behalf and that she should seek the advice of other counsel regarding
the applicable statute of limitations. 
The complaint, filed October 10, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) legal malpractice; and (2) breach of
fiduciary duty.      
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On April 16, 2024,
Plaintiff filed 3 motions to compel further responses: (1) for Form
Interrogatories, set one (“FROG”) against Shamsi Firm; (2) for FROGs against
Mr. Shamsi; and (3) Requests for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”)
against Defendants. 
On May 6, 2024,
Defendants filed opposition briefs.  
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an untimely reply brief. 
DISCUSSION

A.   
FROGs against Shamsi Firm 
Plaintiff moves to compel Shamsi Firm’s
further responses to FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.3, 12.6, 15.1, and 17.1.
FROG
No. 12.1
asks Shamsi Firm to state the name, address, and telephone number of each
individual who (a) witnessed the incident/events occurring immediately before
or after the incident; (b) who made any statement at the scene of the incident;
(c) who heard any statement made about the incident at the scene; and (d) who Shamsi
Firm/anyone acting on its behalf claims to have knowledge of the incident.  Shamsi Firm objected to the FROG that it was
vague, overbroad, lacked foundation, called for speculation as to the incident,
sought attorney-client privileged information and attorney work product, and
invaded the right of privacy.  Without
waiving objections, Shamsi Firm responded that if the incident was the
slip-and-fall at the market, then Plaintiff was accompanied by a male companion
whose name and contact information were not known, there is a video of the
incident, and a copy of the market employee’s report is included in the RPD
production.  The FROG defines the
“incident” as “the circumstances and events surrounding the alleged tortious
acts, negligence, and/or breach of fiduciary duty giving rise to the action.”  Plaintiff seeks a further response, arguing
that the incident did not involve the underlying slip-and-fall, but rather
Shamsi Firm’s legal representation of Plaintiff arising from the
slip-and-fall.  The Court will order a
further response to FROG No. 12.1 so that Shamsi Firm’s response will be
directed towards the allegations of the complaint in this action regarding the
legal malpractice claims brought against it. The motion is granted as to FROG
No. 12.1. 
FROG
No. 12.3 asks
whether Shamsi Firm or anyone acting on its behalf obtained a written/recorded
statement from any individual concerning the incident and, if so, for each
statement state: (a) contact information of the individual from whom the
statement was obtained; (b) contact information of the individual who obtained
the statement; (c) the date the statement was obtained; and (d) the contact
information of each person who has the original statement or copy.  FROG
No. 12.6 asks if a report made by any person concerning the incident and,
if so, to state: (a) the name, title, identification number, and employer of
the person who made the report; (b) the date and type of report made; (c) the
contact information of the person for whom the report was made; and (d) the
contact information of each person who has an original or copy.
Shamsi Firm objected to Nos. 12.3 and 12.6
on similar grounds as above.  It responded
to No. 12.3 by stating that documents obtained from Cardenas Market regarding
its investigations will be produced.  It
responded to No. 12.6 by listing individuals from Cardenas Market.  For the same reasons discussed above, the
Court will order a further response to FROG Nos. 12.3 and 12.6 so that the
“incident” refers to the allegations of the legal malpractice complaint and not
the underlying slip-and-fall. 
FROG No. 15.1 asks Shamsi Firm to
identify each denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative
defense in the pleadings and for each: (a) state all facts upon which it bases
the denial or special or affirmative defense; (b) state the contact information
of all persons who have knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all
documents and other tangible things that support it denial or special or affirmative defense, and state the contact
information of the person who has each document.  Shamsi Firm objected that discovery is not
complete such that it is impossible to state which of Plaintiff’s allegations
are material, the FROG is vague, seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine, Shamsi Firm has asserted
several affirmative defenses that may later become relevant, and it is
unreasonably burdensome to identify every relevant document.  It responded without waiving objections that
the FROG calls for speculation as to what pleading is being referred to so it
will refer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, then it lists its
affirmative defenses.  The Court will
order a further response to No. 15.1. 
Shamsi Firm should clearly state the facts upon which it is basing its
denials and/or special or affirmative defenses. 
Further, subparts (b) and (c) should be completely responded to with
contact information and identification of documents.  Shamsi Firm has not substantiated how
responding to No. 15.1 would be burdensome. 
The motion is granted as to No. 15.1. 

FROG No. 17.1 asks if Shamsi Firm’s response to each RFA served with the FROGs is an
unqualified admission and, if not, for each response that is not an unqualified
admission: (a) state the RFA number; (b) state all facts upon which the
response is based; (c) state the contact information of all persons with
knowledge of those facts; and (d) identify all documents that support the
response and contact information of persons who has each document/thing.  Specifically, Plaintiff seeks further
responses as to RFA Nos. 20, 22, 26, and 28. 
The Court has reviewed Shamsi Firm’s responses and finds that they are
code compliant as they respond to each subpart of the FROG regarding its
affirmative defenses at issue.  Thus, the
motion is denied as to FROG No. 17.1.  
The motion to compel Shamsi
Firm’s further responses is granted as to FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.3, 12.6, and
15.1 and denied as to No. 17.1. 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in
the amount of $6,930 against Shamsi Firm for bringing the three motions.  Shamsi Firm seeks $2,300 against Plaintiff
for filing the opposition.  The Court
will award Plaintiff $2,300 on this motion against Shamsi Firm, plus $60 in
filing fees.  
B.    
FROGs against Mr. Shamsi
Plaintiff moves to compel Mr. Shamsi’s
further responses to FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.3, 12.6, and 15.1. 
The issues in this motion are essentially
identical to those raised in the motion directed against Shamsi Firm. For the
same reasons discussed above, the motion to compel Mr. Shamsi’s further
response is granted as to FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.3, 12.6, and 15.1. 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in
the amount of $6,930 against Mr. Shamsi for bringing the three motions.  Mr. Shamsi seeks $2,300 against Plaintiff for
filing the opposition.  The Court will
award Plaintiff $2,300
on this motion against Mr. Shamsi, plus $60 in filing fees. 
C.    
RPD against Defendants 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendants’
further responses to RPD No. 1.  
RPD No. 1 seeks Defendants’
entire file pertaining to the underlying matter.  Defendants responded that the file was
previously provided on July 18, 2023 to Plaintiff and on September 20, 2023 to
counsel.  Defendants objected that the
RPD was burdensome and oppressive, and that Plaintiff recently produced the
same file in response to Defendants’ RPD. 
Without waiving objections, Defendants produced bates stamped documents
SHAMSI0000001-SHAMSI00000470.  Plaintiff
seeks a further response, arguing that the Jul 18, 2023 documents that were
informally produced on July 18, 2023 and the pdf documents that were informally
produced to her counsel on September 20, 2023 were not identical.   In opposition, Defendants argue that they
subpoenaed Cardenas Market and so Defendants produced bates stamped documents
SHAMSI00000471-SHAMSI000000492, but that these documents were not identified as
responsive such that they were not a part of the client file.  They also argue that they found one native
form of an email, which they produced on April 4, 2024.  Defendants argue that they have complied with
the RPD such that no further response need be compelled.  
The Court overrules Defendants’ objections
that the RPD is burdensome and oppressive as its appears that Defendants can
easily comply with the RPD request. 
Further, Plaintiff has established good cause for the production of the
file as she states that the prior production of the documents resulted in two
non-identical copies of the documents.  While
Defendants have produced documents responsive to the RPD, Defendants should
again produce documents in a complete manner regarding the entirety of the file
to the underlying matter.  It appears
that documents were recently found in April 2024 and that there are
discovery/subpoenaed documents that Defendants also possess for the underlying
matter.  All of these documents should be
produced in one complete file for Plaintiff’s review. 
The motion is granted as to RPD No. 1. 
 Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $6,930 against
Mr. Shamsi for bringing the three motions. 
Mr. Shamsi seeks $2,300 against Plaintiff for filing the
opposition.  The Court will award
Plaintiff $2,300 on this motion against Mr. Shamsi, plus $60 in filing
fees. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
             Plaintiff Ophelia Adame’s motion to compel
Defendant The Shamsi Law Firm a Professional Corporation’s further response is
granted as to FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.3, 12.6, and
15.1 and denied as to No. 17.1.  Defendant
The Shamsi Law Firm and its counsel of record,
jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,360
to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order. 
Plaintiff Ophelia Adame’s motion to compel
Defendant Shahab Sean Shamsi’s further response is granted as to FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.3, 12.6, and 15.1.  Defendant Shahab Sean Shamsi and his counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,360 to Plaintiff, by and through
counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order for this motion.
Plaintiff Ophelia Adame’s motion to compel
Defendants The Shamsi Law Firm a Professional Corporation and Shahab Sean
Shamsi’s further response is granted as to RPD No. 1.  Defendants and their counsel of record,
jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,360
to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order
for this motion.
Defendants are ordered to provide further
responses within 20 days of notice of this order. 
Plaintiff shall give notice of this order.
 
 
DATED: May 17,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    