 Case Number:  23STCV28882    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




title remediation
   corporation, as trustee of the new century financial distressed portfolio
   trust(s)

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
deborah soileau and/or john
   hopkins, jr., as trustee of the hopkins soileau family trust dated july 28,
   1999

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV28882




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   17, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for order substituting
  successor beneficiary in interest for deceased trustee defendant and for
  leave to file amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Title Remediation
Corporation, as trustee of The New Century Financial Distressed Portfolio
Trust(s)           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion for Order Substituting Successor Beneficiary in Interest for
Deceased Trustee Defendant and for Leave to File Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants plaintiff Title
Remediation Corporation, trustee of The New Century Financial Distressed
Portfolio Trust(s)’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (d), (c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Title Remediation Corporation, as trustee of The New Century
Financial Distressed Portfolio Trust(s) (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order (1) substituting Roy Hopkins (“Hopkins”) as the defendant in this action
as the successor in interest for defendant Deborah Soileau, trustee of the
Hopkins Soileau Family Trust dated July 28, 1999 (“Soileau”), and (2) granting leave
to file a First Amended Complaint (i) to substitute in Hopkins as defendant,
(ii) to dismiss John Hopkins, Jr. (“Hopkins Jr.”) as a defendant, and (iii) to
allege newly discovered facts.  Plaintiff
moves for this relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.41.
“On motion, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding against the decedent that does not abate to be continued
against the decedent’s personal representative or, to the extent provided by
statute, against the decedent’s successor in interest, except that the court
may not permit an action or proceeding to be continued against the personal
representative unless proof of compliance with Part 4 (commencing with Section
9000) of Division 7 of the Probate Code governing creditor claims is first made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.41.)

First, the court denies Plaintiff’s request to substitute Hopkins as a
defendant in place of Soileau in this action because Plaintiff has not shown
that Hopkins is Soileau’s successor in interest within the meaning of section 377.41.
For purposes of section 377.41, a “‘decedent’s successor in interest’
means the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest
who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that
is the subject of the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.)  A
“beneficiary of the decedent’s estate” is defined to mean (1) “[i]f the
decedent died leaving a will, the sole beneficiary or all of the beneficiaries
who succeed to a cause of action, or to a particular item of property that is
the subject of a cause of action, under the decedent’s will[,]” or (2) “[i]f
the decedent died without leaving a will, the sole person or all of the persons
who succeed to a cause of action, or to a particular item of property that is
the subject of a cause of action, under Sections 6401 and 6402 of the Probate
Code or, if the law of a sister state or foreign nation governs succession to
the cause of action or particular item of property, under the law of the sister
state or foreign nation.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.10.)
The court acknowledges that Plaintiff has presented evidence showing
that Hopkins is the sole surviving beneficiary of the Hopkins Soileau Family
Trust dated July 28, 1999 (the “Trust”), and, as such, may be entitled to 100
percent of the shares to the subject property. 
(RJN Ex. A, Pet., Declaration of Trust, Ch. 5, p. 1 [Schedule A of
Declaration listing Trust property to include the subject property (i.e., 5962
Hooper Ave., Los Angeles, California (Pet., ¶ 1))], Ch. 2, p. 9, §§ 2 [naming
Hopkins, Francis Marie Allison, and George David Hopkins as successor
beneficiaries], 3, subd. (B) [“If any beneficiary is deceased prior to
distribution, the deceased beneficiary’s share shall pass to the surviving
beneficiaries equally”]; Kurtzhall Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, 11.)  However, Plaintiff has not presented evidence
or argument establishing that, because Hopkins is the sole surviving Trust
beneficiary, he is a beneficiary of Soileau’s “estate” as defined by sections
377.11 and 377.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
377.11 [successor in interest for a decedent is “the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate”] [emphasis added], 377.10.)  
Moreover, Plaintiff has not presented evidence or argument
establishing that Hopkins has succeeded to the real property that is the
subject of this action.  (Ibid.
[successor in interest for a decedent is any “other successor in interest who
succeeds . . . to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the
cause of action”].)  Instead, the
evidence submitted by Plaintiff appears to show that the subject property has
not been distributed to Hopkins. 
(Kurtzhall Decl., ¶ 10 [Francis Marie Allison “never assumed her role as
trustee of the Trust and never distributed the Trust Estate to the Successor Beneficiaries
prior to her death”].)  Thus, the subject
property still appears to be an asset of the Trust.  (Ibid.) 
Because a trust is not a legal entity, cannot hold title to property,
and “cannot sue or be sued[,]” the proper defendant in this action is the
current trustee of the Trust as the owner of legal title to the subject
property.  (Portico Management Group,
LLC v. Harrison (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 464, 473 [trust cannot hold title to
property; instead, “[l]egal title to property owned by a trust is held by the
trustee”] [internal quotations omitted]]; Ibid. [“‘As a general rule,
the trustee is the real party in interest with standing to sue and defend on
the trust’s behalf.  [Citations.]’”].)  Plaintiff has not shown or argued that Hopkins
is now a trustee of the Trust.  
The Trust documents establish that, upon the death of the original
co-trustees (i.e., Hopkins Jr. and Soileau), the first successor trustee
nominated therein shall immediately become trustee of the Trust and shall have
the powers set forth herein, including the authority to appoint the second
successor trustee.  (RJN Ex. A, Pet.,
Declaration of Trust, Ch. 2, p. 2 [naming as settlors and co-trustees Hopkins
Jr. and Soileau], Ch. 2, p. 4, III, § B.) 
Francis Marie Allison (“Allison”) was named as the only successor
trustee.  (Id., § C, subd.
(1)(a).)  Plaintiff (1) has asserted that
Allison did not assume her role as trustee, and (2) has not presented evidence
establishing that Allison, prior to her death, designated a second successor
trustee.  (Kurtzhall Decl., ¶ 10.)  Further, Plaintiff has not presented evidence
establishing that another individual has been appointed a trustee pursuant to
the provisions of the Probate Code. 
(Prob. Code, § 15660, subd. (a) [“If the trust has no trustee or if the
trust instrument requires a vacancy in the office of a cotrustee to be filled,
the vacancy shall be filled as provided in this section”].)  However, it appears to the court that
Plaintiff may be able to file a petition to appoint a trustee (e.g., Hopkins)
to fill the vacancy and thereafter request leave to amend the Complaint to name
the current trustee—who will hold legal title to the property owned by the
Trust—as a defendant in this action. 
(Prob. Code, § 15660, subd. (d); Portico Management Group, LLC, supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 473.) 
Thus, the court denies (1) Plaintiff’s request to substitute Hopkins
in place of Soileau in this action because Plaintiff has not shown that Hopkins
is Soileau’s successor in interest within the meaning of section 377.41, and
(2) Plaintiff’s related request to amend the Complaint to name Hopkins as a
defendant in this action in place of Soileau. 
The court denies these requests without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing
another appropriate motion that seeks to name the current trustee of the Trust as
a defendant in this action. 
Second, the court denies Plaintiff’s requests to amend the Complaint
to dismiss Hopkins Jr. as a defendant and to allege newly discovered facts
because Plaintiff has not complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
which requires Plaintiff to file, inter alia, a copy of the proposed
pleading and a supporting declaration specifying the effect of the proposed
amendment.  (Mot., p. 4:1-7; Cal. Rules
of Ct., rule 3.1324.)  The court denies
Plaintiff’s request without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing an amended motion that
complies with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Title
Remediation Corporation, as trustee of The New Century Financial Distressed
Portfolio Trust(s)’s motion to substitute successor in interest.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 17, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court