 Case Number:  22STCV09726    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The motion to continue trial is GRANTED in part.
 
Background 
 
On March 21, 2022, Plaintiffs Walter E.
Jones and Yahne Coleman (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Six
Flags Magic Mountain, Inc.; Six Flags Magic Mountain Limited Partnership; and
Does 1 through 10, asserting causes of action for premises liability,
negligence in training, retention and supervision, and negligent infliction of
emotional distress arising out of a physical altercation at the amusement park
that allegedly occurred on June 29, 2021. 
On May 3, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against the same defendants. 
On May 27, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the
complaint to name Magic Mountain, LLC (“Defendant”) as Doe 1.
On March 27, 2023, Defendant filed its
Answer to the FAC. 
On July 27, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial Date, Final Status Conference
Date, and Related Motion and Discovery Cut Off Dates and continued the trial to
March 4, 2024. 
On October 3, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion to continue trial.  Plaintiffs
filed an opposition on October 16, 2023. 
Defendant filed a reply on October 20, 2023.
Trial is currently set for March 12,
2024.
Legal Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
Defendant
moves to continue trial to November 19, 2024, and requests that all
discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Defendant
argues good cause exists because the earliest hearing date for a Motion for
Summary Judgment is on October 9, 2024, which is eight months after the
currently scheduled hearing date on March 12, 2024.  Defendant further argues it needs additional
time to complete discovery and that trial counsel has another matter scheduled
for a lengthy trial in March 2024.
The case law is clear that Defendant has
a right to have a timely filed motion for summary judgment heard before trial,
but at this point Defendant has not filed a motion for summary judgment. Merely
reserving a hearing date for a potential motion is not the same as filing a
motion and is not, in itself, good cause for a trial continuance. Nor is the possibility
that trial counsel might be involved in another trial good cause for a
continuance.
The Court does find good cause for a
shorter continuance in light of the demonstrated need to complete discovery, particularly
in light of the relatively short time since Defendant appeared in this
action.  Accordingly, the request for a
continuance is GRANTED in part.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the request for a continuance in part.
 
Trial is continued to mid June 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 