 Case Number:  22STCV19510    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s employees and person most qualified is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background 
 
On June 15, 2022, Plaintiff Gerard Dunn (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-10, asserting a single cause of action for negligence arising out of an
incident on April 1, 2022, in which Plaintiff was allegedly injured by products
that fell on him in Defendant’s store.  Defendant filed an answer on August 16, 2022.
 
According to Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff has been
attempting for some time, without success, to schedule the depositions of two of
Defendant’s employees (Joseph Angulo and Laura Cancinos) as well as a
person-most-qualified (“PMQ”) deposition of Defendant on certain topics.  (Van Gelder Decl., ¶¶ 4-17.)  On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff served notices for
the taking of deposition of Mr. Angulo and the PMQ.  (Maurice Decl., Exh. B.)  On August 14, Plaintiff served amended
notices for these two depositions (Id., Exh. D.)  On August 25, Plaintiff served a notice for
the taking of the deposition of Ms. Cancinos. 
(Id., Exh. E.)  On
September 20, Plaintiff served amended notices for all three depositions.  (Id., Exh. I.)  On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff served a Third
Amended Deposition Notice for the PMQ deposition, scheduled for October 17, with
eight designated topics for deposition (some with sub-parts) and two requests
for production (one with sub-parts).  (Van
Gelder Decl., Exh. 3.)  
 
The next day, on October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
motion that is currently before the Court, seeking an order compelling
Defendant to produce the three deponents. 
No sanctions were requested. 
Defendant filed an opposition on October 18, and Plaintiff filed a reply
on October 24.
 
Subsequent to the filing of the motion, additional
developments occurred.  Defendant served
objections to the three deposition notices on October 5.  (Maurice Decl., Exhs. L, M, O.)  On October 16, Plaintiff served amended
notices for all three depositions for November 14 and 15.  (Id., Exh. P, Q, R.)
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The service of a
deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
Section 2025.230
provides: “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice
shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination
is requested.  In that event, the deponent
shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors,
managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its
behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably
available to the deponent.”  
Section 2025.410,
subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at least three
days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition notice does
not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  (Id.,  §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)
Discussion 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, a party may move for an order compelling a party-deponent to
attend a deposition and produce documents if the deposition was properly
noticed and the deponent failed to attend and produce the requested
documents.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  In his moving papers,
however, Plaintiff does not present evidence that any of this has
occurred.  Instead, in his moving papers,
Plaintiff complains at length – perhaps with good cause, perhaps not – about Defendant’s
failure to cooperate in the scheduling of the party depositions.  
 
Scheduling problems and foot
dragging, however, are not a sufficient basis to obtain an order under section
2025.450.  What is required is a showing
that notice was properly provided, no valid objection was served, and the
deponent failed to appear and produce. 
Plaintiff does not make that showing. 
Indeed, the only deposition notice presented in the moving papers is a
notice that was served one day before the motion was filed, with a deposition
set for October 17 (and apparently continued based on the agreement of the
parties to November 14 or 15).  No
evidence is presented in the moving papers of a notice of a deposition that
Defendant or its employees failed to attend without serving a valid objection;
no evidence of a non-appearance is presented; and no other evidence is
presented that would provide a basis for the order that Plaintiff seeks.
 
To be sure, Defendant must comply
with its obligations under the Civil Discovery Act to produce its employees and
a PMQ witness for deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.010, 2025.280,
subd. (a).)  Failure to do so may result
in sanctions.  But Plaintiff may not
obtain an order compelling a deposition without meeting the statutory
requirements for such an order – and Plaintiff simply has not done so at this
time.
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel is
DENIED without prejudice.  If Defendant
fails to produce the witnesses for deposition, and the other statutory
requirements are met, Plaintiff may file a new motion to compel (and may seek
sanctions).
 
Finally, the Court understands that
the parties have a dispute about some of the topics that are included in the
deposition notice.  As there is not a procedurally
proper motion to compel that is currently before the Court, the Court declines
to rule on that dispute at this time.  As
to this issue as well, Plaintiff’s request for relief is DENIED without
prejudice and may be renewed in a procedurally proper motion (if necessary) in
the future.
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s employees and person most qualified is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.
 