  Case Number:  21STCV13296    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ERIC MIZRAHI,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
YEHUDA MAIMON, individually and as Trustee of the BRIGITTE
  MIZRAHI LIVING TRUST dated June 21, 2018;
et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  21STCV13296




Hearing Date:


January 11, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
JUDGMENT
  CREDITOR YEHUDA MAIMON’S, INDIVIDUALLY, AND AS TRUSTEE, MOTION FOR AN ORDER
  DETERMINING DEBTOR ERIC MIZRAHI’S CLAIM OF EXEMPTION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background 
On April 7, 2021, Plaintiff Eric Mizrahi (“Mizrahi”) filed this action
against Defendants Yehuda Maimon, individually and as Trustee of the Brigitte
Mizrahi Living Trust dated June 21, 2018 (“Maimon”) and US Bank National
Association (“US Bank”). The Complaint asserts one cause of action for
partition by sale of the property.
On June 15, 2021, Maimon filed
a Cross-Complaint against Mizrahi and US Bank, alleging causes of action for
(1) partition by sale, (2) partition in kind, (3) for accounting and
appointment of a receiver, (4) constructive trust, (5) money had and received,
and (6) breach of fiduciary duty.
On August 11, 2023, the Court issued an Order granting Maimon’s motion
for attorneys’ fees and turnover of court held funds in part. The Court’s
August 11, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “Maimon’s motion for attorneys’ fees is granted in part.
Maimon is awarded
attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $298,472.50. Maimon’s motion ‘for
an order from the Court releasing to the Trust the Court held funds in the
amount of $12,541.18’ is denied without prejudice…” (August 11, 2023 Order, p.
10.) 
On October 3, 2023, an Abstract of Judgment was issued in this action stating,
inter alia, that Judgment was entered on August 11, 2023, and that the “[t]otal
amount of judgment as entered or last renewed: $298,472.50.” On October 20,
2023, a writ of execution (money judgment) was issued as to the “Judgment
entered on…August 11, 2023.” 
Maimon states that “[o]n November 27, 2023, the Sheriff’s Department
received a Claim of Exemption from Mizrahi.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13.) 
            Maimon now moves for an order to
deny Mizrahi’s Claim of Exemption in its entirety. The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion
In the instant motion, Maimon states that “[p]ursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 703.550,
[Maimon] hereby opposes [Mizrahi’s] Claim of Exemption.” (Mot. at p.
2:1-4.) 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 703.550,
subdivision (a) provides that “[w]ithin
15 days after service of the notice of claim of exemption, a judgment creditor
who opposes the claim of exemption shall file with the court a notice of
opposition to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order
determining the claim of exemption and shall file with the levying officer a
copy of the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion. Upon the
filing of the copies of the notice of opposition and notice of motion, the
levying officer shall promptly file the claim of exemption with the court. If
copies of the notice of opposition and notice of motion are not filed with the
levying officer within the time allowed, the levying officer shall immediately
release the property to the extent it is claimed to be exempt.” 
As an initial matter, Maimon does not appear
to provide evidence that he “file[d] with the
levying officer a copy of the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of
motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550,
subd. (a).) The Court notes that no claim of exemption appears to have been
filed with the court. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 703.580, subdivision (b), “[a]t a hearing under this section, the exemption claimant
has the burden of proof.” In addition, “[a]t the conclusion of the hearing, the
court shall determine by order whether or not the property is exempt in whole
or in part. Subject to Section 703.600, the order is determinative of the right
of the judgment creditor to apply the property to the satisfaction of the
judgment. No findings are required in a proceeding under this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.580, subd. (d).) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 703.580, subdivision (e), “[t]he court clerk shall promptly transmit a certified copy
of the order to the levying officer. Subject to Section 703.610, the levying
officer shall, in compliance with the order, release the property or apply the
property to the satisfaction of the money judgment.” 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 703.570, subdivision (b), “[n]ot less than 10 days prior to the hearing, the judgment
creditor shall serve a notice of the hearing and a copy of the notice of
opposition to the claim of exemption on the claimant and on the judgment
debtor, if other than the claimant. Service shall be made personally or by
mail.” Maimon filed a proof of service indicating
that on December 14, 2023, Maimon served on Mizrahi, inter alia, the “Notice of
Opposition to Claim of Exemption” and “Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption”
by mail and electronic mail.  
In his declaration in support of the instant
motion, Maimon’s counsel states that “[o]n November 27, 2023, the
Sheriff’s Department received a Claim of Exemption from Mizrahi. Attached as
Exhibit 7 is a true and correct copy of the Claim of Exemption we received from
the Sheriff’s Department and the attached cover letter.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13,
Ex. 7.) The Court notes that Exhibit 7 to Maimon’s counsel’s declaration
contains a document titled “Notice of Filing of Claim of Exemption” from the Sheriff’s
Department of Los Angeles County, to the attention of Maimon’s counsel,
“Shustak, Reynolds & Partners PC.” (Ibid.) The notice states, inter alia, that in Case
No. 21STCV13296 (the instant case), “[a] Claim of Exemption has been
filed in the above case. The property will be released to the extent it is
claimed to be exempt unless you do all the following within 15 days: 1. File
with the court a Notice of Opposition to Claim of Exemption and a Notice of
Motion for an order determining the Claim of Exemption. 2. File with the
Sheriff’s Office at the address below a copy of the Notice of Opposition to
Claim of Exemption and a copy of the Notice of Motion for an order determining
the Claim of Exemption.” (Ibid.) The notice
states that “[t]his notice was mailed” on “11/30/23.” (Ibid.) 
The Court notes that 15 days after November 30, 2023 is December 15,
2023.[1] On December 14, 2023, Maimon filed the Notice of Opposition to Claim of
Exemption and the Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption. The Notice of
Opposition of Claim of Exemption asserts that the item or items claimed
as exempt are “not exempt under the statutes relied upon in the Claim of
Exemption,” “not exempt because the judgment debtor’s equity is greater than
the amount provided in the exemption,” and “not exempt because no statutes are
relied upon; no property is claimed exempt; there is no apparent basis for any
exemption; and misrepresentation of assets.” (December 14, 2023 Notice of
Opposition to Claim of Exemption, Item 5.) The Notice of Opposition to Claim of
Exemption also provides that the facts necessary to support Item 5 are: “See
Judgment Creditor’s Notice of Motion for Determining Debtor’s Claim of
Exemption, the supporting Memorandum of Points and Authorities, and the
supporting Declaration of Mahdi M. Ibrahim, attached hereto.” (Ibid.,
Item 6.)[2]
On December 14, 2023, Maimon also filed the
instant Motion for an Order Determining Debtor Eric Mizrahi’s Claim of
Exemption and supporting documents. 
The Claim of Exemption attached as Exhibit 7 to Maimon’s counsel’s declaration provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he property I claim to be exempt
is…Any and all deposits held in my name at my Bank of America Account.” (Ibrahim
Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7.) The Claim of Exemption further provides that “[t]he
property is claimed to be exempt under the following code and section…U.S.C Sec
[704.010-704.230].” (Ibid.) In addition, the Claim of Exemption states
that “[t]he facts which support this claim are…filing an appeal with the Court
and see attached declaration…” (Ibid.)
Maimon asserts that the Claim of Exemption fails to meet the statutory
requirements for a valid claim. Maimon cites to Code of
Civil Procedure section 703.520,
subdivision (b), which provides that “[t]he
claim of exemption shall be executed under oath and shall include all of the
following:
 
(1) The name of the claimant and the mailing address where service of
a notice of opposition to the claim may be made upon the claimant.
 
(2) The name and last known address of the judgment debtor if the
claimant is not the judgment debtor.
 
(3) A description of the property claimed to be exempt. If an
exemption is claimed pursuant to Section 704.010 or
704.060, the claimant shall describe all other property of the same type,
including exempt proceeds of the property of the same type, owned by the
judgment debtor alone or in combination with others on the date of levy and
identify the property, whether or not levied upon, to which the exemption is to
be applied. If an exemption is claimed pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 704.100, the claimant shall state the nature
and amount of all other property of the same type owned by the judgment debtor
or the spouse of the judgment debtor alone or in combination with others on the
date of levy.
 
(4) A financial statement if required by Section
703.530.
 
(5) A citation of the provision of this chapter or other statute upon
which the claim is based.
 
(6) A statement of the facts necessary to support the claim.”

Maimon asserts that the Claim of Exemption does
not adequately describe “the property 
claimed to be exempt.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
703.520, subd. (b)(3).)
As set forth above, the Claim of Exemption provides that “[t]he property I claim to be exempt is…Any and all deposits held in my
name at my Bank of America Account.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7.)
Maimon notes that the Claim of Exemption “lists no specific accounts, no
specific dollar amount in the accounts, or the claimed exempt amount.” (Mot. at
p. 5:11-12.) Mizrahi did not file any opposition to the instant motion, and
thus does not dispute Maimon’s assertion that the Claim of Exemption is
deficient under Code of Civil Procedure section 703.520. Maimon notes that pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 8.54, subdivision
(c), “[a] failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.” 
            Maimon also asserts that the Claim of Exemption fails to
provide “[a] citation of the provision
of this chapter or other statute upon which the claim is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.520, subd. (b)(5).) As set forth above, Mizrahi cites to “U.S.C
Sec [704.010-704.230]” in the Claim of Exemption. (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7.)
It appears Mizrahi mistakenly cited to the United States Code. As noted by
Maimon, Code of Civil Procedure sections
704.010-704.230 concern “exempt property.” Maimon notes that “[r]ather than
defining the basis for his Claim, Mizrahi’s Claim lists every statute related
to exempt property.” (Mot. at p. 5:14-15.) 
In addition, Maimon asserts that Mizrahi fails to provide a “statement of the facts necessary to support the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
703.520, subd. (b)(6).) Maimon asserts that “[o]ther
than Mizrahi’s declaration, which consists of only a few lines about how the
levied accounts affect him, Mizrahi provides no facts supporting the basis for
his Claim. His declaration also cites no specific exemptions that the
declaration might apply to.” (Mot. at p. 5:22-24.) As discussed, Mizrahi did
not file any opposition to the instant motion, and thus does not address this
point.   
In addition, as set forth above, the claim of exemption shall include “[a] financial statement if
required by Section 703.530.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 703.520, subd. (b)(4).) Code of Civil
Procedure section 703.530, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f property is claimed as
exempt pursuant to a provision exempting property to the extent necessary for
the support of the judgment debtor and the spouse and dependents of the
judgment debtor, the claim of exemption shall include a financial statement.” Code of Civil Procedure
section 703.530, subdivision (b)
provides that “[t]he financial
statement shall include all of the following information:
 
(1) The name of the spouse of the judgment debtor.
 
(2) The name, age, and relationship of all persons dependent upon the
judgment debtor or the spouse of the judgment debtor for support.
 
(3) All sources and the amounts of earnings and other income of the
judgment debtor and the spouse and dependents of the judgment debtor.
 
(4) A list of the assets of the judgment debtor and the spouse and
dependents of the judgment debtor and the value of such assets.
 
(5) All outstanding obligations of the judgment debtor and the spouse
and dependents of the judgment debtor.” 
Maimon asserts that “Mizrahi’s
Claim misrepresents his assets and fails to provide a full and accurate
representation of his finances in violation of CCP §
703.520.” (Mot. at p. 6:24-25.)  
The Court notes that the
“Financial Statement” attached to the Claim of Exemption states the name “N/A”
next to “Spouse.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7.) Thus, Mizrahi does not
appear to list the “name of the spouse of the
judgment debtor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.530, subd. (b)(1).) The
Financial Statement also states that “[m]y gross monthly pay is…$0.00.” (Ibrahim
Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7.) Maimon asserts that “Mizrahi’s Claim of Exemption lacks a
true accounting of his assets.” (Mot. at p. 6:9.) Maimon’s counsel asserts, inter
alia, that “Mizrahi, who maintains a medical license and is a doctor, owns
at least four properties in his name alone, including two multi-unit apartment
buildings.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 14, Exs. 8-11.) Maimon’s counsel further asserts
that “[o]ne apartment building Mizrahi owns (Koreatown Property) is an 11-unit
building with rents around $1,350 per month.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. 12.) 
The Financial Statement attached to the Claim of Exemption also
contains an item for “[c]ars, other vehicles, and boat equity…”  (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7, Item 3(c).) This
Item was not completed by Mizrahi. (Ibid.)
Maimon’s counsel states in his supporting declaration that “I conducted a
public record search on Westlaw for Mizrahi’s assets. Based on these public
records searches, I determined Mizrahi owns a 45-foot sailboat. Upon
information and belief, Mizrahi also owns multiple cars.” (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 16,
Ex. 13.) Maimon also notes that Mizrahi does not lists cars as an asset on the
Financial Statement but lists “[t]ransportation & auto expenses” as
$2,200.00. (Ibrahim Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 7.) A discussed, Mizrahi did not file any
opposition to the instant motion and thus does not dispute the foregoing. 
Based on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any opposition, the
Court finds that Maimon has demonstrated good cause for the Court to grant the instant
motion to deny Mizrahi’s Claim of Exemption.[3] However,
as set forth above, Maimon does not appear to provide evidence demonstrating
that he “file[d] with the levying officer a copy of
the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550,
subd. (a).) As set forth above, “[w]ithin
15 days after service of the notice of claim of exemption, a judgment creditor
who opposes the claim of exemption shall file with the court a notice of
opposition to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order
determining the claim of exemption and shall file with the levying officer a
copy of the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion. Upon the
filing of the copies of the notice of opposition and notice of motion, the
levying officer shall promptly file the claim of exemption with the court. If
copies of the notice of opposition and notice of motion are not filed with the
levying officer within the time allowed, the levying officer shall immediately
release the property to the extent it is claimed to be exempt.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550,
subd. (a).) It is not clear whether Maimon filed with the levying officer a
copy of the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on
the instant motion to ________________, 2024¿at
10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. By ________________, 2024, Maimon may file and
serve a declaration addressing whether Maimon “file[d] with the levying officer a copy of the notice of
opposition and a copy of the notice of motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550, subd. (a).) 
Maimon is to provide notice of
this ruling.¿
 
DATED:  January 11, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


