 Case Number:  21STCV20335    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



SHERRY HENNINGTON,
et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
GLEN DOLLARHIDE, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 21STCV20335




Hearing Date:


January 11, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO THE FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS TO
  DEFENDANT GLEN DOLLARHIDE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS; 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO THE FIRST SET OF GENERAL FORM INTERROGATORIES TO DEFENDANT
  GLEN DOLLARHIDE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS



 
Background
Plaintiffs Sherry
Hennington (“Hennington”) and Lorrie Irving (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action on June 1, 2021 against Defendant Glen Dollarhide (“Defendant”). The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach
of undivided loyalty, (3) fraud, (4) conversion, (5) intentional interference
with contractual relations, (6) intentional interference with prospective
economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic
relations, and (8) defamation. 
On July 29,
2021, Hennington served on
Defendant her First Set of Requests for Production of Documents and Form
Interrogatories – General, Set One. (Westmoreland Decls., ¶ 2, Exs. 1.) On
September 3, 2021, Defendant served responses to Hennington’s First Set of Requests for Production of
Documents and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One. (Westmoreland
Decls., ¶ 3, Exs. 2.) Counsel for Hennington
met and conferred with Defendant concerning the asserted insufficiencies
with his responses. (Westmoreland Decls., ¶ 4.) 
On May 17, 2022, the
parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). The Court’s May
17, 2022 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he parties
participate in an IDC. The parties agreed and the Court ordered as follows: On
or before 06/07/22, Defendant Dollarhide will serve via U.S. Mail amended
responses to the First Set of General Form Interrogatories and First Set of Requests
for Production with full and complete responses and verifications with full
signatures.” 
Plaintiffs indicate
that on or about June 3, 2022, Defendant served amended responses to the
First Set of Requests for
Production of Documents and Form Interrogatories – General, Set One. (Westmoreland
Decls., ¶ 8, Ex. 6.) 
Plaintiffs now move for orders compelling Defendant to provide further
responses to Hennington’s First
Set of Requests for Production of Documents and Hennington’s Form
Interrogatories – General, Set One. Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions in
connection with both motions. Defendant opposes both motions.  
Discussion
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs seek an “[o]rder to compel
[Defendant] to provide further responses to the First Set of Requests for
Production of Documents…” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:6-7.) Plaintiffs also seek
an “[o]rder to compel [Defendant] to provide further responses to the First Set
of General Interrogatories.” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:6-7.) 
As set forth above, the Court’s May 17, 2022 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he parties participate in an IDC. The parties agreed and the
Court ordered as follows: On or before 06/07/22, Defendant Dollarhide will
serve via U.S. Mail amended responses to the First Set of General Form
Interrogatories and First Set of Requests for Production with full and complete
responses and verifications with full signatures.” The Court notes that it does not issue orders to comply with its orders, so no further order is
necessary or appropriate to compel compliance with the Court’s May 17, 2022 order.  
Plaintiffs also seek
monetary sanctions against Defendant. In both of the instant motions, Plaintiffs
cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), which provides that “[e]xcept as provided in
subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
As an initial matter, the
Court does not see why Plaintiffs cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h) in their motion to compel
further responses to Hennington’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One. As set forth
above, this provision pertains to a “motion to
compel further response to a demand…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (h), emphasis added.) Thus, the Court does not find that
this provision is applicable to Plaintiffs’ motion pertaining to the Form Interrogatories – General, Set
One. 
In addition, as set
forth above, the Court finds that no further order is necessary or appropriate
to compel compliance with the
Court’s May 17, 2022 order. The Court accordingly does not find that Defendant
has unsuccessfully opposed Plaintiffs’ instant motion to compel further
responses to Hennington’s
First Set of Requests for Production of Documents. Thus, the Court does not find that
sanctions are warranted here under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h).
Plaintiffs
also cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivisions
(d) and (f), which provide that “[m]isuses
of the discovery process include, but are not limited to,” “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery,” and “[m]aking an
evasive response to discovery.” However, Plaintiffs do not cite any legal
authority in either of their motions supporting a request for sanctions in such
circumstances. 
The Court
notes that Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part that “the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or
attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions
against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: (a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” However, Plaintiffs do not cite this provision
in either of their motions. It is thus unclear if Plaintiffs are relying on Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030. 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), cited by Plaintiffs,
provides that “[m]isuses of the
discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:…(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.” But as set forth above, Plaintiffs acknowledge that on or about June 3, 2022,
Defendant served amended responses to the First Set of Requests for Production of Documents and Form
Interrogatories – General, Set One. (Westmoreland Decls., ¶ 8, Ex. 6.)[1]
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (f), also cited by Plaintiffs, provides that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following:…(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.” However, Plaintiffs do
not appear to argue that Defendant made “evasive” responses to the subject
discovery requests. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause for sanctions
in connection with either of the instant motions. 
Lastly, Defendant asserts in
his opposition to the motion pertaining to the First Set of Requests for Production of Documents that “the Court should impose sanctions
upon Plaintiffs for serving partial pleadings for this motion, and award
Defendants reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in having to oppose this
motion.” (Dollarhide Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant asserts in his opposition to the
motion pertaining to the Form
Interrogatories – General, Set One that “the Court should impose
sanctions upon Plaintiffs for this frivolous action, and award Defendants
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in having to oppose this motion.” (Dollarhide Decl., ¶ 7.) 
The Court notes that it is unclear what Defendant means by “partial
pleadings.” In addition, Defendant’s oppositions to the instant motions state
that Defendant is appearing in pro per. Thus, it is unclear why Defendant seeks
attorney’s fees. Further, Defendant does not cite to any legal authority in
support of his requests for sanctions. Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s
requests for sanctions. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motions to compel further responses are
denied as moot. Plaintiffs’ requests for sanctions are denied.  
Plaintiffs are ordered
to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  January 11, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


