 Case Number:  23STCV02465    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



STAR SCRAP METAL CO., INC., et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
  ACTING BY AND THROUGH THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV02465




Hearing Date:


January 11, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS



            
Background
Plaintiffs Star
Scrap Metal Co., Inc. and Metal Depot, Inc. (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action on February 3, 2023 against Defendants The State of California, acting
by and through the California Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”), as
well as Malcolm Dougherty, Karla Sutiff, Carrie Bowen, Heriberto Salazar, James
Marsella, Mark A. Lyles, Kelly Lin, John Njoroge, Glenn Mueller, and Scott
Fridell (collectively, the “Individual Defendants”)[1].
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) petition
for writ of mandate pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5, (3) breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, and (4) tortious interference with contract. 
Caltrans now moves for judgment on the Complaint on the ground that it
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Plaintiffs
oppose. 
 
Requests for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Caltrans’ request for judicial notice filed in support of the motion. The Court
notes that copies of Sections 10.05.12.01 and
10.05.05.11 of the subject Right of Way Manual are attached as Exhibits C
and D, respectively, to the Declaration of William E. Pallares. (Pallares
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. C-D.) The Court denies Caltrans’ request for judicial notice filed in support of the reply. The Court notes
that “¿[t]he general rule of motion practice…is
that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)  
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice filed in
support of the opposition. 
Discussion 
A.   
Legal Standard 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as
provided by ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 438¿, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (¿Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999¿.) A motion by a
defendant can be made on the ground that the complaint (or any cause of action
therein) “¿does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii)¿.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (d), “[t]he grounds for motion provided for in this section shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” 
¿“¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.) For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer “¿does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713¿.)
B.   
Caltrans’ Supplemental
Briefing and Plaintiffs’ Objection Thereto 
On December 22, 2023,
Caltrans filed supplemental briefing in support of Caltrans’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings. As noted by Plaintiffs, Caltrans was not authorized
to file any supplemental briefing. 
Caltrans states that it “submits
this briefing as a supplement to its Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and
Reply in order to provide the Court with an additional relevant, unpublished
case that is citable pursuant to California Rules of Court (‘CRC’), Rule 8.1115(b)(1) as ‘the opinion is relevant under
the doctrines of law of the case.’ Caltrans respectfully requests that this
court, in its discretion, take the case Bryant v.
DOT 2023 Cal. App. Unpub. LEXIS 929, into consideration and grant its
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Caltrans’ Supplemental Brief at p.
2:3-9.) 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subdivision (a), “[e]xcept as
provided in (b), an opinion of a California Court of Appeal or superior court
appellate division that is not certified for publication or ordered published
must not be cited or relied on by a court or a party in any other action.” Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subdivision (b), “[a]n
unpublished opinion may be cited or relied on: (1) When the opinion is relevant under the doctrines of law of the
case, res judicata, or collateral estoppel; or (2) When the opinion is relevant to a criminal or disciplinary action
because it states reasons for a decision affecting the same defendant or
respondent in another such action.” 
Caltrans argues that “[t]he
Byrant case should be viewed related as it involves the same party,
CalTrans, and provides a demonstration of how a trial and appellate court
applied the Government Code, section 11523 statute
of limitation to a similar set of facts: the writ petition against a CalTrans
administrative decision.” (Caltrans’ Supplemental Brief at pp. 3:27-4:2.) 
Although
Caltrans contends that Byrant is “relevant under the doctrines [sic] of
law of the case,” (Caltrans’ Supplemental Brief at p. 2:6), Caltrans’
supplemental brief does not appear to discuss such doctrine or apply it to the
instant case. The Court notes that under the law-of-the-case
doctrine, “the decision of an appellate court, stating a rule of law necessary
to the decision of the case, conclusively establishes that rule and makes it
determinative of the rights of the same parties in any subsequent retrial or
appeal in the same case.” ((Bell v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 715, 727 [internal
quotations omitted].) The Court does not see
how this doctrine is applicable here. Caltrans does not show that the instant
case involves a “subsequent retrial or appeal in” Bryant. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Caltrans has
demonstrated in its unauthorized supplemental brief that any of the exceptions
set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subdivision (b) apply here. Thus, the Court declines to consider
the Bryant case. Plaintiffs assert that the Court should “issue
an order to show cause why Caltrans’ counsel should not be sanctioned and
ordered to pay Plaintiffs’ reasonable fees and expenses in responding to this
unauthorized Supplemental Brief for its repeated, knowing violations of California Rule of Court 8.1115.” (Plaintiffs’ Reply
at p. 8:10-12.) Plaintiffs note that “persistent use
of unpublished authority may be cause for sanctions.” ((People v. Williams (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1521, 1529.)
As noted by Plaintiffs, Caltrans’ motion also cites a trial court order. (See
Mot at p. 9, fn. 2, citing “Five Points v. City of Irwindale,
2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 39459.”) 
Caltrans asserts in its supplemental brief that “Defendant submits
this supplemental briefing to be considered at the discretion of the Court, and
will not push the Bryant case further if the Court chooses to disregard
it.” (Caltrans Supplemental Brief at p. 4:16-17.) The Court does not find that
the circumstances warrant that the Court set an order to show cause re:
sanctions at this time, but the Court admonishes Caltrans that¿any¿future filings must comply with the California
Rules of Court.   
C.   
Allegations of the Complaint

In the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “Star Scrap, a scrap metal recycling
business, and Metal Depot, a fabricated metal retailer, grew into successful
family enterprises under the stewardship of Rose Starow (‘Ms. Starow’) and her
two sons, David and Zack. The Star Parties operated on a parcel of land that
[Caltrans], decided to acquire through eminent domain to widen the I-5
freeway.” (Compl., ¶ 1.) “Caltrans entered into a written settlement agreement
(the ‘Interim Agreement’) with Ms. Starow and the Star Parties…” (Compl., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s part of this express contract, Caltrans most
relevantly agreed that it (a) would leaseback the Property to the Star Parties
and not require any relocation until the Property was needed for use in
connection with the relocation of I-5, and (b) would pay the Star Parties for
the costs each of them incurred to relocate to a suitable relocation site. And
to minimize costs of enforcing adequate and timely reimbursement and hold each
other to ideals of good faith, the parties to the Interim Agreement agreed that
the prevailing party in any proceeding to enforce those reimbursement
obligations would be entitled to their actual attorneys’ and expert fees and
costs, regardless of whether such fees and costs would have otherwise been
recoverable under any other statute (the ‘Prevailing Party Fee Clause’).”
(Compl., ¶ 5.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[p]artway into the move, the Star Parties came
to Caltrans asking for what should have been routine reimbursement for
contractors secured through a well-documented, competitive bidding process. The
Star Parties incurred millions in debts to these contractors as a direct and
foreseeable result of the relocation process, as complicated and frustrated by
Caltrans’s actions, but Caltrans withheld virtually all contractual and
statutory reimbursement with full knowledge and intent that doing so would make
the Star Parties’ performance under these contracts more difficult, burdensome,
and/or impracticable—ultimately agreeing to a payment of only $27,500.”
(Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n appeal, Caltrans’s Relocation
Appeals Board (the ‘Board’) was able to right some of the wrongs of Caltrans’s
District 7,” and that “in April of 2022, the Star Parties finally obtained a
reimbursement award of $1,765,200.89, more than 64 times the amount initially
offered by Caltrans.” (Compl., ¶ 10, emphasis omitted.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[n]ow, nearly a decade after the Interim
Agreement was signed, the Star Parties seek to recover the fees and costs they
incurred simply to be properly reimbursed for the move.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs
allege that “[a]fter securing a favorable decision from the Board, the Star
Parties returned to Caltrans’s District 7 in late 2021 to ask for the timely
payment of such fees, citing the Prevailing Party Fee Clause. District 7
refused, breaching the Interim Agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs allege
that “[t]he Star Parties also seek to recover the remaining reimbursement they
are entitled to under federal and state relocation statutes and regulations
through writ of mandate. Although the Board righted certain wrongs, it still
refused to consider evidence of Caltrans’s failings and tactics and, as a
result, made certain arbitrary findings expressly contrary to these statutes;
implementing regulations; and Caltrans’s own administrative guidelines, the
Right-of-Way Manual…” (Compl., ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that “[t]he Star Parties also seek to
recover for breach of the express and implied covenants of good faith and fair
dealing. There can be no question that Caltrans’ unreasoned, retaliatory, and
bad faith misconduct during the site search, eviction, relocation, and
reimbursement processes frustrated the primary purpose of the Interim
Agreement. The Star Parties had a straightforward settlement contract with
Caltrans.” (Compl., ¶ 13.)  
D.   
First Cause of Action for
Breach of the Interim Agreement 
In the first cause of
action for breach of the Interim Agreement, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia,
that “Caltrans entered into the Interim Agreement with the Star Parties
on May 6, 2015.” (Compl, ¶ 124.) Plaintiffs allege that “Paragraph 17 of the
Interim Agreement, the Prevailing Party Fee Clause, provides that ‘a prevailing
party in any action or other proceeding to enforce, interpret or otherwise
address the rights and obligations contained in this Agreement shall be entitled
to recover its actually incurred attorneys’ fees and actually incurred costs
(regardless of whether such fees or costs otherwise would be recoverable by
statute or other rule) as well as its fees and costs incurred for consultants
and experts.’” (Compl., ¶ 125.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he Star Parties prevailed in proceedings to
enforce, interpret or otherwise address the Star Parties’ rights and Caltrans’
obligations contained in the Interim Agreement. Such rights include the Star
Parties’ rights and Caltrans’ obligations to provide reimbursement as set forth
in the SMA, an exhibit to the Interim Agreement as set forth in paragraph 4 to
the Interim Agreement. The Board enforced, interpreted, and addressed the Star
Parties’ rights and Caltrans’ obligations in the SMA.” (Compl., ¶ 126.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “Caltrans breached the Prevailing Party Fee
Clause when it indicated it would refuse to pay any fees incurred by Greenberg
Traurig, LLP in connection with the reimbursement claim submission process in
2016-2018 and the appeal from 2018-2022.” (Compl., ¶ 127.) Plaintiffs also allege
that “Caltrans breached the Interim Agreement by failing to perform its
reimbursement obligations set forth in the Interim Agreement, including as
specifically set forth in the SMA.” (Compl., ¶ 128.) In addition, Plaintiffs
allege that “Caltrans breached paragraph 10 of the Interim Agreement, an
express covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which provides that ‘[e]ach of
the Parties agrees to . . . take such additional actions as are necessary or
reasonably required to effectuate the terms, conditions, provisions and intent
of this Agreement’…” (Compl., ¶ 129.)  
In the motion, Caltrans asserts that the first cause of action is
barred under 49 C.F.R. § 24.301, subdivision (h)(8).
This provision provides, “(h) Ineligible moving and related expenses. A
displaced person is not entitled to payment for:… (8) Any legal fee or other cost for preparing a
claim for a relocation payment or for representing the claimant before the
Agency…” (49 C.F.R. § 24.301,
subd. (h)(8).) Caltrans asserts that “Plaintiffs’ claims for
attorney fees are plainly barred.” (Mot. at p. 7:25-26.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “49
C.F.R. § 24.301(h)(8) only governs eligibility of fees and costs for
reimbursement under the Uniform Act as expenses related to the move itself, not
whether fees and costs are recoverable under another statute, or through common
law contract or tort actions.” (Opp’n at p. 14:19-22, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs
cite to Am. Airlines v. Wolens (1995) 513 U.S. 219, 221-222, where the United States
Supreme Court found that “[t]he Airline
Deregulation Act of 1978 prohibits States from ‘enacting or enforcing any law .
. . relating to [air carrier] rates, routes, or services.’ 49 U.S.C. App. § 1305(a)(1). This case concerns the
scope of that preemptive provision, specifically, its application to a
state-court suit, brought by participants in an airline’s frequent flyer
program, challenging the airline’s retroactive changes in terms and conditions
of the program. We hold that the ADA’s preemption prescription bars
state-imposed regulation of air carriers, but allows room for court enforcement
of contract terms set by the parties themselves.” The Wolens Court
noted that “[w]e do not read the ADA’s preemption clause, however, to shelter
airlines from suits alleging no violation of state-imposed obligations, but
seeking recovery solely for the airline’s alleged breach of its own,
self-imposed undertakings.” (Id. at p. 228.) The Court notes that Caltrans does not address
the foregoing point or the Wolens authority in its reply. 
            The Court also notes that Caltrans’ motion for judgment on
the pleadings appears to assert that the entire first cause of action is barred
because “Plaintiffs’ claims for attorney fees are…barred.” (See Mot. at p. 7:14-15;
7:25-26.) However, as set forth above, the first cause of action
also alleges, inter alia, that “Caltrans breached the Interim Agreement
by failing to perform its reimbursement obligations set forth in the Interim
Agreement,” and that “Caltrans breached paragraph 10 of the Interim Agreement,
an express covenant of good faith and fair dealing…” (Compl., ¶¶ 128, 129.) The
Court notes that “¿a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action
or to a particular type of damage or remedy.¿” (¿Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿;
¿see also PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A
demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.”]¿.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is equivalent to a
demurrer and is governed by the same de novo standard of review.” ((Kapsimallis
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 667, 672.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Caltrans’ motion
as to the first cause of action. 
 
E.     Second Cause of Action for Write of Mandate Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5
In the second cause of action,
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[a]lthough the Relocation
Appeals Board reversed the majority of District 7’s denials and awarded the
Star Parties reimbursement over 64 times greater than the reimbursement
initially offered by District 7, the Board affirmed the denial of reimbursement
for other claims, including other professional service reimbursement.” (Compl.,
¶ 138.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he denial of reimbursement for these claims
was not supported by the weight of the evidence.” (Compl., ¶ 139.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that “the Star Parties were also denied a
fair trial, including, without limitation, because the Star Parties were
arbitrarily denied the opportunity to present, and the Board arbitrarily
refused to consider, evidence of District 7’s misconduct throughout the
relocation and reimbursement process and its impact on the Star Parties’
ability to complete its move and obtain reimbursement for costs incurred
therefor, and evidence of actual, reasonable, and necessary expenses incurred
to complete the move and recoverable under the Interim Agreement after December
6, 2018.” (Compl., ¶ 140.) 
In the motion, Caltrans
asserts that the second cause of action is barred by Government Code section 11523. This provision
provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
“Judicial review may be had by filing a petition for a writ
of mandate in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure,
subject, however, to the statutes relating to the particular agency. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, the petition shall be filed within 30 days
after the last day on which reconsideration can be ordered. The right to
petition shall not be affected by the failure to seek reconsideration before
the agency. On request of the petitioner for a record of the proceedings, the
complete record of the proceedings, or the parts thereof as are designated by
the petitioner in the request, shall be prepared by the Office of
Administrative Hearings or the agency and shall be delivered to the petitioner,
within 30 days after the request, which time shall be extended for good cause
shown, upon the payment of the cost for the preparation of the transcript, the
cost for preparation of other portions of the record and for certification
thereof…If the petitioner, within 10 days after the last day on which
reconsideration can be ordered, requests the agency to prepare all or any part
of the record, the time within which a petition may be filed shall be extended
until 30 days after its delivery to him or her…” (Gov. Code, § 11523.)

Caltrans
asserts that “[a]s is stated in the Star Parties’ complaint, the RAB issued its
final determination as to the Star Parties appeal of their relocation benefits
on April 8, 2022.” (Mot. at p. 10:1-3.) In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege
that “[o]n April 8, 2022, the Board determined that the Star Parties should
have been reimbursed for an additional $120,820, for a total of $402,840.89 in
remaining reimbursement on remand,” and that “[t]he Board’s recommendation
became final on April 8, 2022.” (Compl., ¶¶ 114, 116.) Caltrans asserts that
“[t]he deadline for the Star Parties to file their Writ of Mandate was
therefore May 8, 2022. Instead, the Star Parties waited until February 3, 2023
to file their Writ of Mandate. This is more than eight months after the
deadline.” (Mot. at p. 10:5-8.)
Plaintiffs assert that Government
Code section 11523 does not apply here, and that “Plaintiffs’ writ petition alleges
no facts that raise any suggestion that it is untimely under the applicable
three- or four-year statutes of limitations.” (Opp’n at p. 6:8-10, emphasis
omitted.) 
Plaintiffs note that pursuant to Government Code section 11501, subdivision (b) “[t]his
chapter applies to an adjudicative proceeding of an agency created on or after
July 1, 1997, unless the statutes relating to the proceeding provide otherwise.” Pursuant to Government Code section 11501, subdivision (a), “[t]his chapter applies to any agency as determined
by the statutes relating to that agency.” Plaintiffs
assert that “[s]ince Caltrans is an agency created in 1973…Chapter 5 of
the APA (which includes the 30-day limitation period referenced in the Motion)
does not apply to any of Caltrans’s adjudicative proceedings by default.”
(Opp’n at p. 11:13-16, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs cite to Government Code section 14001, which provides that “[t]here is in the Transportation Agency a
Department of Transportation. Any reference in any law or regulation to the
Department of Public Works shall be deemed to refer to the Department of
Transportation.” Government Code section
14001 was “[a]dded Stats 1972 ch 1253 § 15, operative July 1, 1973.” (See Gov. Code, § 14001,
“History.”) 
            Plaintiffs
assert that “for
the 30-day APA limitations period to govern the Second Cause of Action, a more
specific statutory provision governing judicial review of the appeal at issue
must therefore expressly state that Chapter 5 of the APA applies.” (Opp’n at p. 11:2-22; see Asimow et al., Cal.
Practice Guide: Administrative Law Ch. 4-A (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 4:7.1,
“[f]or Agencies
created before July 1, 1997, Chapter 5 adjudication applies only if another statute (usually the statute creating the agency) specifically provides that it applies (Gov.C. § 11501(a)).” [emphasis in original])
Plaintiffs note that here, Caltrans acknowledges
that it “acquired
the Property and provided Plaintiffs relocation assistance pursuant to the
federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies
Act of 1970, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4601-4655…” (Mot at p.
8:18-20.) Plaintiffs assert that “[h]ere, neither the Uniform Act, nor its
implementing regulations, 49 C.F.R. part 24 et
seq., nor ROW Manual Chapter 10 (which governs relocation assistance), nor the
Interim Agreement, contain any reference to the APA, let alone Chapter 5 or a
limitations period on judicial review.” (Opp’n at p. 13:3-5, emphasis omitted.)
Plaintiffs also note that “section 1094.5 of the
Code of Civil Procedure…has no ‘built-in’ period of limitations.” ((Cameron v. Cozens (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 887, 889.)[2]

            In the reply,
Caltrans argues that “Plaintiffs seek to misconstrue the statutory scheme to
make their claim timely. However, when reviewing the statutory scheme, section 11523 applies to Plaintiffs cause of action
for writ of mandate.” (Reply at p. 7:15-17.) Caltrans asserts that “an aggrieved
party may seek judicial review of the RAB’s decision by Government
Code section 7266.” (Reply at p. 10:22-23.) Caltrans notes that Government Code section 7266, subdivision (b)
provides that “[a]ny person aggrieved by a
determination as to eligibility for, or the amount of, a payment authorized by
this chapter may have the application reviewed by the public entity or by the
relocation appeals board if authorized under subdivision (a). The review of a
determination by a community redevelopment agency may only be made by a
relocation appeals board established pursuant to Section
33417.5 of the Health and Safety Code.” But Caltrans does not
appear to point to any statutory provision stating that Government Code section 11523 applies to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action
here. 
As discussed, Government Code section 11501 provides that “[t]his chapter applies to any
agency as determined by the statutes relating to that agency,” and that “[t]his
chapter applies to an adjudicative proceeding of an agency created on or after
July 1, 1997, unless the statutes relating to the proceeding provide
otherwise.” (Gov. Code, § 11501, subds. (a)-(b).) Caltrans does not appear to dispute Plaintiffs’
assertion that Caltrans is an agency created in 1973. (See Asimow et al., Cal.
Practice Guide: Administrative Law Ch. 4-A (The Rutter Group 2023)          ¶ 4:7.1, supra, “[f]or Agencies created before July 1, 1997, Chapter 5 adjudication applies only if another statute (usually the statute creating the agency) specifically provides that it applies (Gov.C. § 11501(a)).” [emphasis in original]) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Caltrans has demonstrated that the second cause of action is
barred under Government Code section 11523. The
Court thus denies the motion as to the second cause of action. 
 
F.     Third Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing and Fourth Cause of Action for Tortious Interference
with Contract
In the third cause of
action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
Plaintiffs allege that “[t]o the extent paragraph 10 of the Interim
Agreement is not construed as an express covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing became part of the
Interim Agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 148.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Caltrans breached the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing by engaging in the misconduct alleged herein, including
specifically in paragraph 129, and frustrating the purpose of the Interim
Agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 149.) 
In the fourth cause of action for tortious interference with contract,
Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he Star Parties entered into valid, existing
contracts with third party contractors, subcontractors, project managers,
architectural planners, civil engineers, and other contracts set forth in the
Star Parties’ claim submissions.” (Compl., ¶ 152.) Plaintiffs allege that
“Caltrans’ and the Individual Defendants’ authorization or participation in the
above-mentioned conduct was designed to induce a breach of these contracts,
including because each knew with substantial certainty that their bad faith
course of conduct described herein, as well as their failure to timely and
adequately reimburse pursuant to the Interim Agreement, would interfere with
the Star Parties’ own ability to timely and adequately perform under those
contracts.” (Compl., ¶ 154.) 
Caltrans asserts that the third and fourth causes of action are barred
because Plaintiffs’ remedies for relocation benefits are wholly administrative.
Caltrans cites to Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Casasola (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th
189, 204, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he California Relocation Assistance Act represents a
legislative recognition of the need to compensate for certain business losses
which occur as a result of a condemnation action. However, such compensation is
independent of the condemnation proceedings. Accordingly, the process by which
a displaced property owner may seek relocation benefits is wholly
administrative and the condemning entity is vested with substantial discretion
in making determinations relative to such benefits and is required to engage in
a fact-finding process to determine the claimant’s eligibility and the
appropriate amount of benefits. Any person aggrieved by such a
determination may have the application reviewed by the public entity.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.)
Plaintiffs
counter that “Caltrans cites no authority for the proposition
that damages cannot be recovered through causes of action or theories sounding
in contract or tort if those damages include any funds that were deemed
ineligible for reimbursement as move expenses by the Board.” (Opp’n at p.
16:8-11.) Plaintiffs note that “[p]leading of
alternative theories of relief on the same set of facts is, of course, quite
proper…” ((Gebert v. Yank (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 544, 554.) 
Plaintiffs
also assert that “[i]t is true that these causes of action seek, inter
alia, some compensatory damages resulting from Caltrans misconduct that
took place during the move, claims submission, and reimbursement processes. But
the fact that Caltrans inadequately reimbursed Plaintiffs does not mean that
the damages Plaintiffs seek that flowed from that misconduct are the denied
reimbursement amounts alone. Plaintiffs plainly seek damages that would not
otherwise be recoverable or even colloquially classifiable as ‘relocation
benefits’ under these allegations.” (Opp’n at p. 17:7-12, emphasis omitted.)
For instance, in connection with the fourth cause of action, Plaintiffs allege
that they seek inter alia, “with respect to the Individual Defendants,
punitive damages.” (Compl., ¶ 159.) 
In addition, in the third cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that
“Caltrans breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by
engaging in the misconduct alleged herein, including specifically in paragraph
129, and frustrating the purpose of the Interim Agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 149.)
Plaintiffs assert that the “third cause of action seeks to recover damages
from, inter alia, Caltrans’s refusal to provide any meaningful claim
preparation assistance in violation of the Uniform Act and its own ROW Manual
guidelines, which caused Plaintiffs to incur unnecessary attorney fees and
expert costs. Compl. ¶¶ 83, 86, 93, 95, 102, 103…Plaintiffs were also
separately damaged by Caltrans’s bad faith delay of reimbursement, even of
funds that were ultimately paid out. See, e.g., Compl. ¶ 49. The untimeliness
caused additional damages in the form of a protracted and more expensive move
and more costly and burdensome performance of third-party contracts, including
through contractual penalties from contractors who were not timely paid. Id. ¶¶ 8, 71, 85, 92, 152, 155-156.
Plaintiffs’ damages are therefore not ‘in essence’ claims for ‘additional
relocation benefits.’” (Opp’n at p. 17:16-26.) 
Caltrans does not address the foregoing points in the reply. Rather,
Caltrans asserts new arguments for the first time in the reply with regard to
the third cause of action. “¿Points raised for the first time in a reply
brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would
deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.¿” (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.) Accordingly, the Court declines to
consider the points raised for the first time in Caltrans’ reply. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies the motion as to the third
and fourth causes of action. 
G.   
Individual Defendants 
Lastly,
Caltrans asserts that “[t]he Individual Defendants are not proper defendants to
this action.” (Mot. at p. 11:7.) Caltrans’ arguments on this point only
appear to concern the fourth cause of action for tortious interference with
contract. (See Mot. at pp. 11:13-12:24.) 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs assert that Caltrans lacks standing
to seek dismissal based on claims against other defendants. Plaintiffs note
that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (c)(1)(B), “[t]he motion provided for in this section may only be made
on one of the following grounds:…(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the following
conditions exist: (i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint. (ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant.” (Emphasis added.) Plaintiffs
thus assert that “[a] defendant can only seek judgment on the
pleaded causes of action ‘against that defendant;’ so, the Court may disregard
the entirety of section E of the Motion as irrelevant.” (Opp’n at p. 18:10-12, emphasis omitted.) Caltrans does not
dispute this point in the reply. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Caltrans’ motion as it concerns the Individual defendants.  
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
denies Caltrans’ motion for judgment on the pleadings in its entirety.  
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide
notice of this order.¿ 
 
DATED:  January 11, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 


