  Case Number:  20SMCV01214    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Cohen v. Kaplan, Case no. 20SMCV01214
Hearing date October 30, 2024
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages & Prejudgment Interest from FACC; 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Cohens’ Demurrer to FACC
Plaintiffs
Paul and Elaine Cohen sued defendants Michael Kaplan and Lisa Johnson for quiet
title, trespass and declaratory relief arising from a wall and stairs allegedly
constructed on plaintiffs’ property. Parties engaged in settlement discussions which
resulted in an agreement being circulated and signed. Plaintiff Elaine Cohen
subsequently asserted she did not sign the agreement. Defendants Kaplan,
Johnson and the Michael Kaplan Living Trust dated 7/9/2002 (“the Kaplan trust”)
cross-complained against plaintiffs/cross-defendants Cohen as well as Sotheby’s
International Realty Affiliates, LLC, Sotheby’s International Realty, Inc.
(collectively “Sotheby’s”), Lisa Willis, the Fedorowycz Family Trust dated 6/8/2004
(“the Fedorowycz trust”) Markian Fedorowycz, Donna T. F. Fedorowycz and Lea
Johnson. 
Cross-complainants’
fourth amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) seeks adverse possession and
proscriptive easement against Elaine Cohen and alternatively Paul Cohen, for
breach of the settlement agreement against Elaine Cohen, alternatively for
fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation, false advertising and unfair
competition against the Fedorowycz trust, Markian and Donna Fedorowycz,
Sotheby’s, Willis and Johnson, alternatively for negligence against Sotheby's,
Willis and Johnson, alternatively for breach of fiduciary duty against
Sotheby’s and Johnson and for declaratory relief against Paul and Elaine Cohen.
Sotheby’s,
Willis and Johnson move to strike exemplary and punitive damages and
prejudgment interest from the FACC. Elaine Cohen demurs to the FACC’s third COA
for breach of a settlement agreement. 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Punitive
damages are allowable only when plaintiff proves defendant is guilty of
oppression, fraud or malice. Civ. Code §3294(a). An employer shall not be
liable for [punitive] damages based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud or malice must be on the
part of an officer, director or managing agent of the corporation. Civ. Code §3294(b).
Every person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being
made certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in him
upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from that
day. Civ. Code §3287.
Defendants/cross-complainants
previously sought punitive damages against Sotheby’s, Willis and Johnson in the
second amended cross-complaint. The court granted a motion to strike punitive
damages against Sotheby’s under Cal. Civ. Code §3294(b) but denied as to Willis
and Johnson. Min. Order 3/1/2022. 
Defendants/cross-complainants
again seek punitive damages from Sotheby’s. Cross-defendants argue the court
already ruled on the issue, and no new facts are alleged against Sotheby’s in
the FACC that allow for punitive damages. The court did not grant leave for
cross-complainants to amend the request for punitive damages against Sotheby’s.
Min. Order 3/1/2022.
Cross-complainants
argue Sotheby’s committed fraud via its qualified broker, so is liable for
punitive damages but offer no new facts to change the court’s previous analysis.
The new arguments are insufficient; the court reaffirms its 3/1/2022 ruling. Punitive
damages as to Sotheby’s are not allowable. 
Cross-complainant’s
argument that striking the entirety of FACC paras. 77 and 109 is inappropriate,
as it would also strike punitive damages against Willis and Johnson, which the
court previously upheld. Min. Order 3/1/2022. Cross-complainants adequately
alleged fraud as to Willis and Johnson. The court will strike only references
to cross-defendants Sotheby’s International Realty Affiliates, LLC and
Sotheby’s International Realty, Inc.
Cross-defendants
also move to strike the prayer for prejudgment interest. The court previously
struck the prayer for prejudgment interest in the SAC. Min. Order 3/1/2022. Cross-defendants
argue cross-complainants again fail to allege a basis for prejudgment interest
per Cassinos v. Union Oil Co. (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 1770, 1789
(holding the test for recovery of prejudgment interest under [Civil Code] §3287(a)
is whether defendant actually know[s] the amount owed or from reasonably
available information could the defendant have computed that amount).
Cross-complainants
argue under Cal. Civ. Code §3288 discretionary prejudgment interest for
unliquidated tort claims is allowed. Cross-complainants assert they suffered a
loss of use and ownership of land, which can be evaluated using expert
testimony, so is ascertainable. The court previously struck the prayer for
prejudgment interest, and cross-complainants did not seek leave to allege such
a second time, which would essentially be a motion to reconsider. See Min.
Order 3/1/2022. The prayer for prejudgment interest is STRICKEN.
Cross-defendants’
motion to strike references to punitive damages as to Sotheby’s and to strike
the prayer for prejudgment interest from the FACC is GRANTED.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Elaine
Cohen’s Demurrer to the FACC
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Elaine Cohen demurs to the FACC’s third COA for breach of settlement agreement,
arguing it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a claim under Code
Civ. Proc. §430.10. She argues the FACC fails to allege a basis to support the
theory that Paul Cohen acted as her authorized agent. Cross-complainants allege
Paul Cohen signed the draft agreement as Elaine Cohen’s authorized agent. FACC
paras. 56, 61-62. Elaine Cohen asserts the claim does not allege a written
instrument signed by both spouses as required to support a transfer of any
interest in community real property. 
Cross-complainants
allege the Cohens represented through their attorney William Bloch that both
signed the agreement. FACC paras. 6, 33-36, 38-41, 56-65, 112. Cross-complainants
alleged a written agreement signed by both Cohens existed or was represented to
exist as such.
Elaine
Cohen asserts the third COA is barred by the express provisions of the
agreement. Cross-complainants alleged Paul Cohen executed the agreement as
Elaine Cohen’s agent, forming the basis for a breach of contract COA. The court
previously concurred with this logic. See Min. Order 3/12/2024.
Cross-complainants alleged every party signed the agreement, and as such was
effective. This is sufficient to survive demurrer. Elaine Cohen’s demurrer to
the third COA of the FACC is OVERRULED. 