  Case Number:  21STCV45351    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 25, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: November 12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Barry Ben-Ron et al. v. Maria De Lourdes
Ruiz.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV45351
            
 
MOTION
TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants One Key Escrow Corp., Manuel Morales,
and Ruby Tang
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 04/22/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:

12/13/21:
             Complaint filed.
06/15/22:
             Cross-Complaint filed.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract
case. Plaintiffs purchased a property from Defendant which Plaintiffs allege
was subject to a PACE loan. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant agreed to pay off
the loan through escrow, such that the property would be transferred to
Plaintiffs clear of any lien and failed to do so, despite receiving money in an
amount equal to the balance on the loan, from escrow. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
One Key Escrow Corp., Manuel Morales, and Ruby Tang move to enforce the terms
of a settlement between Cross-Defendants and Cross-Complainant. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED.
 
            Dismissal
is entered on the cross-complaint as to all cross-defendants with prejudice
this date.
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
            Cross-Defendants
One Key Escrow Corp., Manuel Morales, and Ruby Tang move to enforce the terms
of a settlement between Cross-Defendants and Cross-Complainant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Enforcement
of settlement agreements is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.
This statute provides, in relevant part:
 
If the
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6(a).) The
Court is empowered under this section to resolve reasonable disputes over the
terms of a settlement. (Machado v. Myers (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 779,
795.) The Court does not insert provisions into the parties’ agreement, but
applies the rules of contractual interpretation to interpretation of the
settlement. (Id. at 792.) When extrinsic evidence is necessary, the
Court may decide the motion on declarations alone. (Richardson v. Richardson
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 91, 97.) 
 
Compliance With Settlement
 
            On
May 31, 2023, Cross-Defendants presented Cross-Complainant with an offer to
compromise pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 998 seeking a dismissal
and release of claims against Cross-Defendants in exchange for a full waiver of
costs. (Declaration of Derik A. Sarkesians Exh. A. pp. 3-4.) Attorney Juan
Carlos Pallares, counsel for Cross-Complainant, signed that offer to signify
his client’s assent on June 30, 2023, and transmitted both that signature and a
separate signed acceptance back to Cross-Complainants’ counsel. (Id.
Exh. A.) The signed offer was filed with the Court on September 7, 2023. However,
Cross-Defendants state that Cross-Complainant has failed to execute the general
release of claims and has failed to dismiss the cross-complaint.
Cross-Defendants state that Cross-Complainant’s counsel represented on August
16, 2023 that his client would not sign the release until settlement was
reached with all parties. (Sarkesians Decl. Exh. B.) That said, counsel for
Cross-Complainant stated in the same correspondence that his client “has agreed
to settle” with Cross-Defendants. (Id.) Cross-Defendants argue that by
imposing conditions on executing the release of claims that were not part of
the original settlement agreement, Cross-Complainant is reneging on her
obligations under the agreement. 
 
            Cross-Complainant
has not responded to this motion and therefore does not contest
Cross-Defendants’ characterization. 
 
            The
Court therefore finds based on the uncontroverted evidence that
Cross-Complainant has not complied with her obligations under the settlement
agreement. Cross-Defendants are therefore entitled to an order dismissing the
cross-complaint with prejudice, pursuant to the agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED.
 
            Dismissal
is entered on the cross-complaint as to all cross-defendants with prejudice
this date.
 
            Moving
parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: April 25, 2024.                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 