 Case Number:  21STCV30667    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 6/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV30667 ALEXANDER JOSEPH
GUERRERO vs CAROLINE NGO
Moving Party: Defendant Richard Pranada
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 128.7(b)
provides that by signing and filing a pleading, an attorney “is certifying that
to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an
inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are
met: (1) [i]t is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as
to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation[;] (2) [t]he claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein
are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law[;]
(3) [t]he allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support
or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after
a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery[;] (4) [t]he
denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7(b).) CCP section 128.7 authorizes the court
to impose appropriate sanctions upon attorneys or parties that have violated
subsection (b). (Id., § 128.7(c).)   
  
CCP section 128.7 provides
a 21-day safe harbor provision whereby the offending party can avoid sanctions
by withdrawing the improper pleading. (See Galleria Plus, Inc. v.
Hanmi Bank (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 535, 538.)  In pertinent part,
section 128.7(c)(1) reads: "A motion for sanctions under this section
shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the
specific conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of motion shall be
served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed
with or presented to the court unless, within 21 days after service of the
motion, or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged paper,
claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or
appropriately corrected. . . ." Section 1010 provides that a notice of a
motion "must state when . . . the motion will be made."
 
A formal notice of motion is
required to begin the 21-day period. (Barnes v. Department of Corrections
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 126, 135-136.)  An informal notice that
substantially complied with the requirements of 128.7 is insufficient. (Id.)
In most cases, counsel should be expected to give informal notice to the other
party, whether in person or by a telephone call or letter before formal notice
is given. Therefore, such informal notice could not serve as a substitute for a
formal noticed motion under the rule. (Barnes, 74
Cal.App.4th at 135.) When the document failed to specify when the motion would
be made as required by CCP 1010, it is fatally defective. (Galleria Plus,
179 Cal.App.4th at 538.) When a party filed its motion for sanctions the same
day it was served, it did not comply with section 128.7, subdivision (c)(1) and
should be denied. (Id.) 
 
A
claim can be factually frivolous or legally frivolous. (See Peake v.
Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440.) “A claim is factually frivolous
if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and it is legally frivolous if it is ‘not
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law.’” (Id.) “In either case, to
obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party’s conduct in asserting
the claim was objectively unreasonable.” (Id.) “A claim is objectively
unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.’” (Id.) Furthermore, “the fact that a
plaintiff fails to provide a sufficient showing to overcome a demurrer or to
survive summary judgment is not, in itself, enough to warrant the imposition of
sanctions.” (Peake, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 448.)
 
Discussion
This case stems from an
incident that occurred on May 31, 2020, when Plaintiff Alexander Joseph
Guerrero was an invited guest to a property located at 24669 Moon Avenue,
Lomita, CA 90717 (hereinafter, the “Premises”). While there, Craig Finley
(“Finley”) was allegedly intoxicated and was toting around his collection of
firearms, when one of the firearms discharged and struck Plaintiff in the
shoulder. The premises are owned by Defendants Ricard Pranada and Denise
Pranada who leased out the property to Craig Finley. The Pranada Defendants now
move the court for sanctions and argue that Plaintiff’s complaint against them is
legally and factually frivolous
First, the present
motion complied with the safe harbor provision. Formal notice of the motion was
served on April 18, 2024, and the motion was filed on May 16, 2024, when the
pleading was not retracted. 
To prevail in this
motion, the moving party must demonstrate that the opposing party's conduct in
asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable, as per Peake v. Underwood
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440, which states: “A claim is objectively
unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree that it is totally and
completely without merit.’” Plaintiff’s case is not completely without legal
merit. Under Rosales v. Stewart (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 130, a landlord
can be held liable for a dangerous condition involving firearms on the property
when they have knowledge, opportunity, and the ability to eliminate the
dangerous condition created by the tenant. Similarly here, Pranada Defendants
can also be held liable in the present case, if Plaintiff can prevail on the
issue of knowledge and control. Thus, it is not the case that Plaintiff’s
claims against the Pranada Defendants are unwarranted
by existing law.
Plaintiff’s claims
against the Pranada Defendants are not factually frivolous due to evidence
indicating that multiple third parties, including gardeners and maintenance
personnel like plumbers and handymen, regularly accessed the interior of
property during Finley's tenancy. (Lahmani Decl. at ¶19, Ex. F [Finley’s
Response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set No. Two) Nos. 54 &
57]). This frequent access raises the possibility that these individuals could
have observed unsecured firearms on the premises, thereby potentially alerting
Defendants to this dangerous condition. Depositions of these key witnesses and
Denise Pranada have not been taken, which could provide evidence that
Defendants were aware of the dangerous conditions. These unresolved factual
questions regarding Pranada's knowledge demonstrate that the case is not
factually frivolous as not all factual grounds for the case has been uncovered.
For the foregoing reasons, the present motion is DENIED. 
Although the court
ultimately decided not to impose sanctions, it finds that Defendants have acted
with substantial justification in bringing this motion and thus denies
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.