 Case Number:  22STCV09109    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
Hearing Date: 6/14/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV09109 KOURTNIE HEATHER
GOOD vs STATE CENTER LOCATING. 
Moving Party: Defendant Stake Center Locating
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION IS DENIED
 
Legal
Standard
 
A
motion for reconsideration must be made “…within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order….” (CCP §1008(a).)
 
The moving party must present new facts,
circumstances or law in order to grant a motion for reconsideration.  (See
CCP § 1008(a); see also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)  The party seeking reconsideration of an order
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, what order or
decisions were made, and what new or different facts or circumstances are
claimed to be shown.  (CCP § 1008(a).)  Further, “…the party seeking
reconsideration must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade
v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457 [emphasis added].)  The
legislative intent was to restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances
where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not previously
considered and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)
 
Additionally,
CCP § 1008, which allows a motion to reconsider to be granted when it is based
on an alleged different state of facts, demands newly discovered evidence that
the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have previously
discovered and produced. (Wilcox v. Ford (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1170.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
moves the Court to reconsider its May 9, 2024 decision relating to Defendant’s
motion to reopen discovery wherein the Court ordered the reopening of fact
discovery pertaining solely to neurological and neuropsychological
examinations. The notice of ruling was served on May 10, 2024, through
electronic service, and the motion was filed on May 21, 2024. The motion is
timely, as electronic service provides Defendant with two extra court days to
respond.
 
Defendant
contends that it has discovered new facts, specifically that on May 7, 2024,
Defendant learned that Plaintiff underwent a spinal cord stimulator trial.
However, Plaintiff in her opposition argues that Defendant was aware of this
fact as early as May 7, 2024, but failed to present it at the hearing on May 9,
2024. In the reply, Defendant stated: 
 
"Defendant actually did argue that it had just learned that
Plaintiff actually went through with the spinal cord stimulator trial, and it
was entitled to do discovery on it at the court hearing dated May 9, 2024.
Defendant stated in court that this was a new fact it learned two days prior,
and Defendant did not have any opportunity to conduct discovery on it. Plaintiff
responded that we can "hash this out" in expert discovery, which
would not effectively resolve the issue of allowing Defendant to investigate
Plaintiff's spinal cord stimulator trial." 
 
(Reply at p. 3.) Despite
this argument, the Court ultimately denied the request to reopen fact discovery
in its entirety. Given that Defendant has already presented facts relating to
the spinal cord stimulator trial at the May 9, 2024 hearing, and the Court has
already considered that fact in issuing its ruling, there are no new facts and
no actionable basis for the motion.
 
Furthermore,
Defendant argues it needs to depose Plaintiff's friends and prior employers and
that Plaintiff is still treating. However, these depositions and requests had
already been requested in the original motion to extend discovery, which was
denied by the Court. Therefore, there is no basis to grant the current motion
based on these arguments as well.
 
Thus,
the motion to reconsider is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 