..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22LBCV00620
Plaintiff's Name: Andrew Anderson
Defendant's Name: Markus Rodriguez
People-Names: Andrew Anderson, Markus Rodriguez, David K. Korenfeld
Company-Names: The Tedesco Family Trust dba The Broadway Bar
Places: Broadway Bar
Dates: March 18, 2024, March 26, 2024
Events: Assault and battery, motion to compel mental examination
Money: Not specified
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks damages, Defendant seeks to compel mental examination
Facts: Plaintiff alleges assault and battery, Defendant seeks examination to support damages claim
Disputes: Plaintiff opposes motion, argues it is overbroad and seeks to limit examination
Acts: Plaintiff filed action, Defendant filed motion to compel mental examination
Agreements: None specified
Laws: CCP ยง2032.320(a), CCP ยง2032.020(a), CCP ยง2032.310(b), CCP ยง2016.040, Vinson v. Superior Court (1987), Roberts v. Superior Court (1973)
Statutes: CCP (California Code of Civil Procedure)
Roles: Plaintiff (Andrew Anderson), Defendant (Markus Rodriguez), Defense Counsel (David K. Korenfeld)
Significant Statements:
* Plaintiff alleges ongoing mental health issues and seeks damages
* Defendant seeks to compel mental examination to support damages claim
* Court will hear argument at the hearing concerning scope of examination
* Parties must work out details concerning examination among themselves without need for hearing if they submit on tentative
```

And here is the English-text summary:

This tentative ruling addresses a motion to compel mental examination filed by Defendant Markus Rodriguez. The motion seeks to compel Plaintiff Andrew Anderson to undergo a mental examination to determine the extent of his alleged emotional distress and mental health issues. Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that it is overbroad and seeks to limit the scope of the examination. The Court notes that Defendant has shown good cause for the examination, as Plaintiff is claiming ongoing mental health issues. The Court will hear argument at the hearing concerning the scope of the examination and which tests will be administered. If the parties do not appear at the hearing, they may submit on the tentative ruling, which will be granted.
