..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV19312
Plaintiff's Name: Claudia and Josue Morales
Defendant's Name: Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, Memorial Health Services, Praveen R. Jonnala, M.D., Ali Khoynezhad, M.D., PhD, Ivana Radeva, M.D., Doe 1, California Anesthesia Associates Medical Group, Inc., Doe 5
People: Claudia Morales, Josue Morales, Praveen R. Jonnala, Ali Khoynezhad, Ivana Radeva
Company: California Anesthesia Associates Medical Group, Inc.
Place: Long Beach Memorial Medical Center
Date: March 26, 2024
Event: Court Hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The judge intends to grant the defendants' motion for summary judgment
Facts: Plaintiffs Claudia and Josue Morales filed a lawsuit against the defendants for negligence, hospital negligence, and loss of consortium
Disputes: The dispute centers around whether the defendants' care and treatment of Claudia Morales met the standard of care and whether their negligence caused or contributed to her injuries
Acts: The defendants have moved for summary judgment, arguing that they complied with the standard of care and that their actions did not cause or contribute to the plaintiffs' injuries
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: CACI 506, CACI 505, Jambazian v. Borden, Munro v. Regents of University of California, Bromme v. Pavitt, Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp.
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: The judge has issued a tentative ruling granting the defendants' motion for summary judgment
Significant Statements:
* "A medical practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted method would have been a better choice." (CACI 506)
* "Whether the standard of care in the community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is within the common knowledge of laypersons." (Jambazian v. Borden)
* "In a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert testimony." (Bromme v. Pavitt)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling granting the defendants' motion for summary judgment. The defendants, Long Beach Memorial Medical Center and its associated healthcare providers, argue that they complied with the standard of care and that their actions did not cause or contribute to the plaintiffs' injuries. The judge finds that the defendants have met their burden of showing that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law, and thus the burden shifts to the plaintiffs to raise a triable issue of material fact. However, the plaintiffs failed to file a timely opposition to the motion and therefore failed to meet their shifted burden. As a result, the judge grants the defendants' motion for summary judgment.
