 Case Number:  23LBCV00491    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Cary Atwood initiated
this action against Defendants, Allyn Emery and Loma Law Group, APC on
3/15/23.  Plaintiff’s original complaint
included causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, unjust
enrichment, breach of contract, equitable estoppel, quantum meruit, and
accounting.  The crux of the original
complaint was that Plaintiff agreed to generate cases for Defendants, and
Defendant would pay her for those referrals. 
Defendants failed to pay, resulting in a balance due in excess of $400,000.
 
Defendants intended to challenge
the original complaint, and the parties’ meet and confer efforts resulted in the
filing of a First Amended Complaint.  The
FAC was filed on 8/18/23, and the FAC adds Lyran Consulting, Inc. as an
additional plaintiff.  The same causes of
action from the original complaint are pled, and the main difference from the
original complaint to the FAC is that the FAC pleads the existence of two
contracts, one between Atwood and Defendants, and the other between Lyran and
Defendants.   
 

Demurrer 

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated
exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause
of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts
as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special
demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to
meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is
due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve
a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the parties
met and conferred extensively before Defendants filed their demurrer.  The meet and confer requirement is satisfied.  
 
c.     Requests
for Judicial Notice
Defendants seek judicial notice of
various documents from the Secretary of State’s website concerning Lyran
Consulting, Inc.  The RJN is granted.
 
d.     First
Cause of Action, Breach of Fiduciary Duty
i.             
Issue
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action
is for breach of fiduciary duty. 
Plaintiffs allege their relationship with Defendants was that of joint
venturers, such that Defendants owe Plaintiffs a fiduciary duty.  Defendants demur to the cause of action, contending
Plaintiffs failed to allege facts supporting the conclusion that the parties’
relationship was fiduciary in nature.  
 
ii.            
Types of Fiduciary Relationships
The parties agree that a fiduciary
relationship can arise in one of two ways. 
First, there can be a specific type of relationship, such as a joint
venture, that imposes a fiduciary duty.  Second,
a fiduciary duty arises if one party knowingly undertakes to act on behalf of
and for the benefit of the other.  
 
iii.           
Joint Venture
Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges the parties
were in a fiduciary relationship due to their “joint venturer” status.  Defendants contend the parties’ contracts,
attached as exhibits to the FAC, make clear that the parties were not joint
venturers.  The parties’ contracts, at
¶2.03, state, “Contractor enters into this agreement, and will remain
throughout the term of the agreement, as an independent contractor. Contractor
agrees that he or she is not and will not become an employee. partner, agent.
or principal of Client while this agreement is in effect.”
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, argue that the language in the contract is not controlling, and that
the issue of whether the parties were in a joint venture is one for the jury to
decide.  They rely on April Enterprises,
Inc. v. KTTV (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 805, 820 to support their position.  In April Enterprises, the plaintiff and the defendant
entered into an agreement to produce a television show, with each party
receiving 50% of net profits upon syndication. 
Id. at 813-814.  The defendant moved
for judgment on the pleadings on the breach of fiduciary duty claim, contending
the parties’ contract specifically indicated the plaintiff was an independent
contractor, and the contract was fully integrated.  The Court of Appeals held that the label in the
parties’ contract was not controlling, and that instead the issue was whether
the elements necessary to create a joint venture had been pled.  It held that the elements had been pled, such
that it was for the jury to determine whether the parties were in a joint
venture or not.  Id. at 819.  Specifically, the Court held (citations
omitted):
“A joint venture ... is an
undertaking by two or more persons jointly to carry out a single business
enterprise for profit.” (Citation) The elements necessary for its creation are:
(1) joint interest in a common business; (2) with an understanding to share
profits and losses; and (3) a right to joint control. (Citations)  “Such a venture or undertaking may be formed
by parol agreement [citations], or it may be assumed as a reasonable deduction
from the acts and declarations of the parties [citations].” (Citation) Whether
a joint venture actually exists depends on the intention of the parties. (Citations)
Here, it cannot be determined as a
matter of law that the complaint fails to allege facts supporting creation of a
joint venture. Appellant argues that the common enterprise to seek syndication
of the show after it was produced and originally telecast was a joint venture
and we find that the first amended complaint sufficiently alleges such a
relationship. The requisite joint interest in a common business is supplied by
the allegations that the parties planned to coproduce the shows in order to
exploit the market for its syndication and that each contributed its own unique
talents in furtherance of this objective. The requisite joint control is
supplied by the allegation that each party agreed to have equal rights to
initiate syndication of the show.
 
Defendants, in reply, contend April
Enterprises is not on point for two reasons. 
First, they contend the parties’ contract, in this case, expressly
disclaims any partnership or agency agreement, where the April Enterprises
contract had no such language.  Second,
they contend the elements of joint venture are not pled in this case.  
 
The Court rejects the first
argument.  The crux of the April
Enterprises holding is that the parties cannot contract around the existence of
a joint venture relationship.  If the elements
of joint venture are established, the fact that the parties defined their
relationship differently in the contract does not defeat the relationship.  
 
The Court agrees, however, with the
second argument.  The plaintiff in April
Enterprises had pled that the parties were forming a business for the purpose
of producing a television show, and that they were to split profits on a 50/50
basis.  Plaintiffs, in this case, allege
they entered into essentially a referral relationship with Defendants, where
they would provide referrals and Defendants would pay them for the
referrals.  None of the elements of joint
venture, detailed above, are pled.  
 
iv.           
One Party Acts for the Benefit of Another
Plaintiffs also argue, in
opposition to the demurrer, that they have sufficiently alleged that they
agreed to act for the benefit of Defendants, such that the second definition of
fiduciary duty is met.  The Court rejects
Plaintiffs’ argument for two reasons.  First,
the issue is not whether Plaintiffs were acting for the benefit of Defendants,
but whether Defendants agreed to act for the benefit of Plaintiffs; no such
allegations appear in the complaint.  Second,
as Defendants correctly noted in the demurrer, when the parties’ contract
creates a mutually beneficial relationship, there is no fiduciary
relationship.  See City of Hope National
Medical Center v. Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386
(mis-cited as City of Hope, 43 Cal.4th at 386 in moving
papers).  
 
 
v.         Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause
of action for breach of fiduciary duty is sustained.  Because it does not appear further
allegations could be pled to support imposition of a fiduciary relationship,
leave to amend is denied.
 
e.     Second
Cause of Action, Conversion
Plaintiffs, in their second cause
of action, allege Defendants converted the monies due to Plaintiffs, and the monies
due are in excess of $400,000. 
Defendants demur to the claim on two grounds.  First, they contend breach of contract cannot
support conversion.  Second, they contend
Plaintiffs have failed to plead a sum certain that would support a conversion
claim.
 
Plaintiffs argue the conversion
claim is based on “knowing withholding of money in violation of the joint
venture” and not based on breach of contract. 
Because the Court finds Plaintiffs failed to plead a joint venture, this
argument fails.  The claim is clearly one
for breach of contract, and the demurrer to the conversion cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.
 
f.      Third
Cause of Action, Unjust Enrichment
Defendants contend the cause of
action for unjust enrichment rises and falls with Plaintiffs’ breach of contract
and quasi-contract.  
 
g.     Fourth
Cause of Action, Breach of Contract

Vague and Ambiguous

Defendants first contend the cause
of action for breach of contract is uncertain and ambiguous because the cause
of action purports to be one single cause of action, but it is based on the alleged
breach of two different contracts.  
As will be discussed further below,
the Court finds Lyran cannot maintain its claims in this suit.  Plaintiffs must file an amended complaint
doing one of two things.  First,
Plaintiffs may file the amended complaint on behalf of Atwood only, eliminating
Lyran as a plaintiff.  Second, if
Plaintiffs revive Lyran’s terminated status, they may keep Lyran as a
plaintiff, but they must each plead separate causes of action for breach of
contract to avoid confusion.  
 
Notably, the Court is not clear on
why Lyran is attempting to act as a party to this lawsuit in light of its
terminated status (below) and in light of the fact that it alleges it assigned
all of its claims to Atwood.
 
ii.          Judicial Admission
Defendants next argue that the
original complaint only pled a contract between Atwood and Defendants, such
that Plaintiffs “admit” that was the only operative contract.  Plaintiffs, however, added Lyran as a party
to the case via the First Amended Complaint, and therefore had to add the Lyran
contract.  Defendants cite nothing to
support their position that this is improper. 
The demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
iii.         Assignment
Defendants argue the contract
between Lyran and Defendants cannot form the basis of a breach of contract
claim because Plaintiffs admit Lyran assigned all rights in the contract to
Atwood, and the contract includes an anti-assignment clause.  
 
The contract between Lyran and
Defendants is Exhibit B to the FAC. 
¶4.07 of the contract states, “Neither this agreement nor any duties or
obligations under this agreement may be assigned by Contractor without the
prior written consent of Client.”  
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC, at ¶4, alleges, “Plaintiff
Cary Atwood is the successor-in-interest and assignee to all right, title and
interest in the contract between plaintiff Lyran Consulting and defendants.”  
 
Plaintiffs argue, in opposition to
the demurrer, that the date of assignment is not pled, and that if the assignment
occurred after the breach, it would not be a violation of the agreement.  neither party cites authority directly on
point to this issue, but it does seem that a contract with a non-assignment
clause could be assigned for purposes of collection, as opposed to purposes of
performance.  
 
The demurrer on this ground is
overruled.
 
iv.           
Status
Defendants’ next argument is that Lyran
is not a California corporation, and therefore the contract is voidable.  The Court agrees with Plaintiffs, who argue,
in opposition to the demurrer, that the contention that a contract is “voidable”
is an affirmative defense.  Nothing cited
by Defendants states that the contract is “void,” only “voidable.”  The demurrer on this ground is therefore
overruled.
 
As a related argument, Defendants
argue Lyran is not a California corporation and therefore cannot maintain its
lawsuit against Defendants.  Defendants
cite Corporations Code §§2105 and 2203 in support of this position.  §2203(c) provides that a foreign corporation “shall
not maintain any action or proceeding upon any intrastate business so
transacted in any court of this state” unless it complies with certain
requirements.  Plaintiffs, in opposition
to the demurrer, argue there is no proof that Lyran is not currently in good
standing.  The judicially noticeable
documents, however, show that, as of 10/18/23, Lyran’s status was “terminated.”  In an abundance of caution, the Court reviewed
the current Secretary of State website, and it continues to show Lyran’s status
as “terminated.”  
 
The demurrer to Lyran’s cause of
action for breach of contract is sustained. 
Leave to amend is granted if and only if Plaintiffs intend to and do
revive Lyran’s status with the Secretary of State.  
 
h.     Fifth
Cause of Action, Equitable Estoppel  
Defendants contend there is no
cause of action for equitable estoppel, which exists solely as a defense to a
complaint.  Plaintiffs argue they are
pleading equitable estoppel because they anticipate Defendants will assert a
defense of unenforceable fee sharing between an attorney and a non-attorney,
but they are estopped from asserting such a defense.  
 
The Court finds this is not a cause
of action.  If Defendants attempt to
assert an improper affirmative defense, Plaintiffs may file a pleading challenge
to the defense, or may otherwise make any necessary argument that the defense does
not apply, but they need not assert a defense to a potential defense by way of
their complaint.  The demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
i.      Quantum
Meruit
Defendants argue the quantum meruit
cause of action is barred by the two-year statute of limitations.  Specifically, Defendants contend the contract
between Lyran and Defendants automatically terminated at its inception due to
Lyran’s assignment of the contract to Atwood, and that date was more than two
years prior to the filing of the complaint. 

 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, correctly note that the date of assignment is not pled.  Additionally, and more importantly, even if
the statute of limitations were to bar Lyran’s claims, it would not bar Atwood’s
claims.  As noted above, Lyran’s claims
are barred because of its terminated status with the Secretary of State, so the
real remaining issue is whether Atwood’s claims are barred.  Because they are not, the demurrer on this ground
is overruled.
Defendants also argue the quantum
meruit cause of action rises and falls with the breach of contract cause of
action.  The Court agrees.  Lyran’s quantum meruit cause of action fails for
the reasons stated above, but the demurrer to Atwood’s claim is overruled.
 
j.      Seventh
Cause of Action, Accounting 
Plaintiffs argue a fiduciary
relationship can support a claim for accounting.  Because there is no fiduciary relationship
pled, the demurrer to the accounting cause of action is sustained without leave
to amend.  
 

Motion to Require a
     Bond

a.     Relief
Sought
Defendants seek to have Plaintiffs
filed a bond in the amount of $410,000 on the basis that Plaintiffs are not
California residents.
 
b.     General Governing Law
In an action or special proceeding
brought by a nonresident plaintiff, the defendant may at any time move for an
order requiring the plaintiff to post security.   (CCP §1030(a).)  The stated grounds for the motion are that
the plaintiff resides out of state or is a foreign corporation, and there is a
reasonable possibility that the moving defendant will obtain a favorable
judgment. (CCP §1030(b).)  The motion can
be brought at any time.  (CCP §1030(a).)
The trial court has no authority to deny the motion on the ground that it is
untimely.  (Heffron v. Los Angeles
Transit Lines (1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 709.) 
The motion is required to be noticed. 
(CCP §1030(a).) The notice of motion must be served in accordance with
CCP §1005(b). The motion must be accompanied by a supporting affidavit or
declaration which establishes the stated grounds for the motion and sets forth
the nature and amount of the costs and attorney fees the defendant has incurred
and expects to incur until the action is concluded.  (CCP §1030(b).)  It must also be accompanied by a memorandum
of points and authorities.  (CCP
§1030(b), CRC 313(a).)
 
The plaintiff may pursue a number
of tactics in opposing a motion for security. These may include: 
(1) proof that the plaintiff is not
a nonresident; 
(2) showing the plaintiff's
indigency (CCP §995.240); and 
(3) arguing the defendant's failure
to make an adequate prima facie showing of a reasonable possibility of success
in the action. 
 
In cases where adequate grounds
exist for granting the motion for security, the plaintiff can still challenge
the amount of the costs and attorney fees requested by the defendant. The
security can be ordered only for "reasonable" attorney fees, and the
defendant must be otherwise entitled to recover those fees by contract or by
another statutory provision.  (CCP
§1030(a).)
 
c.     Analysis
Plaintiffs argue the motion must be
denied because Defendants are not California residents.  They cite various cases holding that the
purpose of §1030 is to enable a California resident sued by an out-of-state
resident to secure costs in light of the difficulty of enforcing a costs judgment
against a person who is not within the court’s jurisdiction.  
 
While this may be the purpose of
the statute, there is nothing in the statute or in any cited case clarifying
that a moving defendant must be a California resident in order to bring the
motion.  The Court therefore rejects
Plaintiffs’ argument in this regard.
 
d.     Reasonable
Probability of Success on the Merits
Plaintiffs next argue Defendants
have not shown a reasonable probability of success on the merits.  Defendants challenge Plaintiffs’ use of
federal authorities in this regard.  The
Court finds that, using the California standard, Defendants have not met their burden.  Their moving papers merely reiterate their
arguments in their demurrer, which was discussed above.  The problem with their position is that they
do not meaningfully articulate any challenge to Atwood’s breach of contract claim
(as opposed to Lyran’s claim), and Atwood’s breach of contract claim appears to
be the “meat” of this entire action.  
 
Defendants do not argue that there was
no contract between them and Atwood, that Atwood failed to perform on the contract,
or that they paid Atwood for her performance on the contract.  They fail, therefore, to show a reasonable possibility
of success on the merits of the lawsuit, and therefore the motion is denied.
 

Conclusion

Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
in part and overruled in part as set forth fully above.  Plaintiffs must file a Second Amended Complaint,
in compliance with this ruling, within twenty days.  Defendants must file a responsive pleading
within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
Defendants’ motion to require Plaintiffs
to post bond is denied.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   