 Case Number:  22LBCV00620    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Andrew Anderson filed this action against Defendants, The
Tedesco Family Trust dba The Broadway Bar, Greg Tedesco, and Markus Rodriguez
for damages arising out of an alleged assault and battery at Broadway Bar.  Plaintiff alleges Rodriguez, in his capacity
as an employee of the bar, assaulted and battered him while he was a patron at
the bar.  
 
Plaintiff recently dismissed the Trust and Tedesco from the action,
leaving only Rodriguez as an active defendant.
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Mental Examination
a.     Relief
Sought
Defendant seeks an order compelling
Plaintiff to attend a mental examination on the ground that he is claiming
severe emotional distress as a result of the incident that forms the basis of
the action.
 
b.     Opposition
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues it should be denied because (a)
Defendant erroneously noticed a physical examination instead of a mental examination,
(b) Defendants failed to meet and confer prior to filing the motion, and (c)
the requested examination and tests are overbroad.  
 
c.     Reply
Reply papers were due on or before
Tuesday, 3/19/24.  Despite the fact that the
opposition papers were timely filed and served, the Court has not received
timely reply papers.  The Court will not consider
late-filed reply papers.  
 
d.     Authority
for Mental Examination
Except for defense physicals in
personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of
course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a
physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and
hearing, and for “good cause shown.” 
(CCP §2032.320(a).)  
 
The examination will be limited to
whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly
related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the
litigation.  Roberts v. Superior Court
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.  Often, a
party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy
... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting
from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.”  See Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing
emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.  Discovery responses can also frame the issues
regarding the injuries and damages alleged. 

 
Additionally, CCP §2032.310(b) requires a party moving to
conduct a mental examination to specify “the time, place, manner, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the
specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination.”  §2032.320(d) requires the
Court, in any order granting a motion to compel mental examination, to specify
the above information.  Pursuant to
Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260, a court
order granting a motion to compel mental examination must specify and list by
name the diagnostic tests and procedures to be used in the examination.
 
e.     Physical
Examination
Plaintiff notes that Defendant
erroneously noticed his mental examination as a physical examination without
seeking a stipulation or leave of court to conduct the examination.  The issue is moot, as Defendant has now filed
this motion as a motion to conduct a mental examination.  
 
f.      Meet
and Confer
Plaintiff contends the motion
should be denied because Defendant failed to meet and confer.  The paragraph heading indicates meet and
confer is required per CCP §2016.040, and the body of the argument indicates
meet and confer is required per §2032.310 et seq.  
 
§2016.040 simply indicates what is
required in a meet and confer declaration when the code requires a meet and
confer declaration.  It does not specify
whether and when meet and confer declarations are required.  
 
Plaintiff does not specify the code
section that requires meet and confer when he cites ”§2032.010 et seq.”  The Court has reviewed the Code, and finds
that CCP §2032.310(b) states the requirements for a motion to compel a mental
examination, and specifies, “The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
The Court asks Plaintiff, in the future in this and other actions, to
specify the code section to which he refers in his briefs.
 
In any event, the Declaration of David
K. Korenfeld, Defense Counsel, in support of the moving papers, states at ¶10
that Counsel attempted to meet and confer prior to filing the motion.  Counsel declares that his meet and confer
letter is attached to the moving papers as Exhibit G.  The meet and confer letter is detailed and
discusses the parties’ positions and why Defendant believes a mental examination
is proper.  The Court asks Plaintiff’s attorney
not to include misleading information in his briefs in the future in this and
other actions.
 
g.     Good
Cause for Examination
Plaintiff argues Defendant has not
shown good cause for the examination sought. 
Defendant, in the moving papers, establishes that Plaintiff is claiming
emotional distress as a result of the incident, including depression, anxiety,
mental trauma, and fear, and that he has been evaluated and treated in
connection with those conditions.  Pursuant
to Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839, a party claiming ongoing
mental health issues “can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”  Defendant therefore showed good cause for the
examination.  
 
h.     Scope
of Examination
Plaintiff contends numerous tests
Defendant seeks to conduct are duplicative and/or unnecessary.  The Court will hear argument at the hearing
concerning which tests are actually going to be administered at the examination.  Defendant should be prepared, at the hearing,
to discuss which tests need to be conducted and why, and Plaintiff should be
prepared, at the hearing, to discuss which tests he objects to and why.  
 
i.      Examination
Defendant seeks an order requiring
Plaintiff to sit for examination on 3/18/24. 
Because the hearing on this motion is after 3/18/24, the Court will
discuss a date and time for the examination with the parties at the time of the
hearing.  Counsel should be prepared to
offer numerous available dates and times for examination at the hearing so a
mutually agreeable date and time can be selected.    
 
j.      Submitting
on the Tentative
If the parties do not wish to
appear at the hearing, they may submit on the tentative ruling.  If they do so, the motion will be granted,
and the Court will presume that the parties will work out details concerning
which tests will be administered and what date and time the examination will go
forward among themselves without the need for a hearing.
 
In the event the parties submit on
the tentative, Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   