 Case Number:  23LBCV00268    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Raul Field Escandon
filed this action against Defendants, Universal Iron Works, Appleby Property
Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association, Ara Agopian, and HOA Board of
Directors on 2/21/23.  Plaintiff’s operative
First Amended Complaint includes various causes of action and spans 78
pages.  Plaintiff seeks an injunction
providing for various forms of relief, and also seeks compensatory
damages.  
 
On 11/14/23, the Court sustained
Moving Defendants’ demurrer without leave to amend.  The following day, the Court entered judgment
in Moving Defendants’ favor.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Basis for Relief Sought
Defendants move for an award of
attorneys’ fees expended in connection with the defense of this action.  They move pursuant to the governing CC&Rs.  §14.06 of the CC&Rs provides, “In any
legal action by an Owner(s) or the Association to enforce any provision of the
Governing Documents, the prevailing party shall be awarded reasonable costs (including
attorney’s fees).”  
 
They also cite the Davis-Stirling
Common Act, found at Civil Code §5975(c), which states, “In an action to
enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.”  
 
b.    
Entitlement to Fees
The threshold issue is whether Plaintiff’s
complaint sought to “enforce the governing documents,” which is a prerequisite
to an award of fees under the CC&Rs or Davis-Stirling.  Defendants’ sole argument in this regard is found
at page 4, lines 22-23 of their moving brief, wherein they state, “It is
undisputed that the genesis of Plaintiff’s lawsuit was to enforce the governing
documents (CC&Rs) in a wholly improper manner.”  Defendants do not elaborate on how this is
so.  
 
The Court finds, however, that Defendants
are correct.  By way of example, the FAC,
¶IV.1. alleges Plaintiff’s unit was damaged due to changes in carpeting and
padding in violation of the CC&Rs.  See
also pages 31-34 of the FAC, wherein Plaintiff make numerous allegations about
various perceived violations of the CC&Rs. 

 
The Court therefore finds
Defendants met their threshold burden to show they are entitled to recover
their fees spent defending this action.  The
Court notes the lack of opposition to the motion.
c.     Amount
of Fees
            Defendants seek to recover fees in
the amount of $44,178.80.  They support
their request with the Declaration of Philip C. Zvonicek, one of the attorneys
who has represented Defendants in their defense of this action.  Zvonicek attaches, as Exhibits C and D
respectively, the billing statements and summary of billing in this
matter.  The Court has examined the
billing statements and finds the hours billed and hourly rates are prima facie
reasonable.  In the absence of
opposition, the Court finds Defendants are entitled to recover the full amount
of fees sought by way of this motion.  
 
d.    
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion for attorneys’
fees is granted.  Defendants are awarded
their fees incurred in the requested amount of $44,178.80.  The Court will interlineate the judgment to
reflect the award of fees.  
 
e.     Final
Note
The Court notes that there are no
future hearing dates on calendar in this action.  The complaint remains pending against
Universal Iron Works, and Universal Iron Works’s cross-complaint remains
pending.  The Court sets a Case Management
Conference and Trial Setting Conference for May 7, 2024.
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this ruling.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.  