  Case Number:  20STCV33002    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON:
 DEFENSE MOTION IN LIMINE No. 10 AND
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO AUGMENT OPINION OF ROBERTO CONTRERAS, II, M.D.   
DEFENSE
MOTION IN LIMINE No. 11
 
Nguyen, et
al. v. Robertsons Transport, et al., Case No. 20STCV33002 
Hearing Dates:
October 7 and 8, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
MIL No. 10 / MOTION TO AUGMENT 
 
 
          On September 12,
2024, the Court heard argument on this motion and filed its ruling. The Court
continued the motion to allow Plaintiffs to indicate what foundation Dr. Roberto
Contreras would have to reach his conclusions as to likely future medical costs.
The Court set a date for an Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing for that purpose. 
 
          Plaintiffs’
Supplemental Opposition  / Motion to
augment his opinions does not address the Court’s stated concern. Instead, it
raises further concerns: Plaintiffs argue that an expert’s opinion, like a
person, is a “living” concept that can change. The Court questions the validity
of that argument consistent with Kennemur v. State of Calif. (1982) 133
Cal.App.3d 907. While a person’s health and surgery may change a prognosis,
there need to be facts to support a change in opinion after the deposition of
an expert has been taken. Otherwise, the purpose of a deposition is rendered
useless.  
 
          Further, the Court
questions how the opinion as to the cost of care for Ann Nguyen went from
approximately $3.9 million to some $6 million. In turn, the opinion as to the
cost of care for Katherine Vargas-Moreno went from approximately $1.6 million
to $3.9 million. Finally, the costs for Sergio Cabrera went from roughly $592,000
to some $885,000. These opinions are very different  and in two instances have essentially doubled.
The Court does not know what may have happened since his deposition that would
justify these changes. While Defendants under these circumstances are likely
entitled to a further deposition – as Plaintiffs propose – there still must be
some explanation for these new opinions to stand up for purposes of these
motions. This new information only increases the Court’s initial concern as to
the foundation for this doctor’s economic analysis. Indeed, Defendants argue that
Dr. Contreras lacks personal knowledge of the “case specific” facts as to plaintiffs’
condition to be able to render expert opinions.  
 
          The Court still
believes it needs to hold the Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing to be able to rule on
this motion.    
 
MIL No. 11: 
 
          Defendants seek to
exclude the opinion of Dr. Ammar Chaudry, a radiologist, whom Plaintiffs have
designated as an expert, as to his use of diffusion tensor imaging (“DTI”) in
diagnosis of Plaintiffs’ alleged traumatic brain injury (“TBI.”) Defendants
contend his giving an opinion based on DTI would not meet the first prong of People
v. Kelly (1976) 17 Cal.3d 24, governing admissibility of scientific
methods, namely, that Plaintiffs cannot establish that use of DTI is
sufficiently established to have general acceptance in the scientific community
to be deemed reliable.  
 
          Defendants point
to a September 13, 2018 paper of the Radiological Society of North America indicating
insufficient routine clinical use of DTI for diagnosis at the patient level
(rather than for research purposes). Another paper warns of the need for
physicians be familiar with the limitations and pitfalls inherent in the
technique. In addition, they point to a 2012 paper indicating a lack of
consensus regarding the utility of DTI. 
 
          They also point to
Chaudry’s deposition testimony that while DTI should not be used routinely as a
first test to be performed its use is to correlate findings with conventional
MRI images. Another paper also indicates “DTI’s remarkable ability to assess
white matter integrity.” Chaudry also acknowledges that more research is needed
before DTI is generally accepted. On the other hand, Chaudry states that the VA
guideline as to use of DTI applies to “routine clinical use” as opposed to use
by physicians of his level of expertise. In turn, they indicate that Dr. Paul
Reisch, who questioned Plaintiffs being able to rely on DTI himself does not
have the expertise to know how to use it since his institution does not use
DTI. Reisch relies on a 2020 paper of the American College of Radiology indicating
use of DTI is “usually not appropriate.”   
 
          In opposition, Plaintiffs
contend that the issue here is not the technology itself but how to interpret
the readings which is a matter of what weight to give the testimony as opposed
to whether his opinion should be excluded. Plaintiffs argue that the papers
rely Defendants rely on are outdated. They point to another paper showing use
of DTI over the last ten years. They also explain that its use is not as the
sole evidence showing TBI but to show what a MRI cannot based on its more
delicate level of analysis – which may be particularly important in cases of milder
TBI where an MRI will not show impairment but DTI may – where like here
Defendants refute impairment. Plaintiffs also contend Defendants have not shown
any court ruling where DTI has been excluded. 
 
          In reply,
Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of two recent California
state trial court decisions - after those courts heard Evid. Code sec. 402
hearings (on the basis as here that use of DTI was not generally accepted in
the scientific community), wherein they both excluded DTI evidence at trial and
in one of those cases precluded Dr. Chaudry’s testimony as an expert on DTI. The
Court grants the request for judicial notice. The written decision of Judge
Steven M. Gevercer of the Sacramento Superior Court in Molina v. Federal
Express was especially instructive in its discussion of the professional
papers and prior judicial consideration of the use of DTI as evidence.   
 
          The Court finds
that there may not be consensus as to routine use by clinicians of DTI.
However, it is not clear that there is lack of consensus as to use of DTI under
other more specific situations. The Court has not reviewed evidence indicating
that DTI is itself somehow methodologically suspect or flawed such that the
Court should necessarily exclude it altogether. Further, there is no claim here
that DTI evidence alone should be considered. The claim is that it be
considered together with MRI evidence. While it may be that DTI should not be
the primary or initial means of diagnosis, it is not clear that it cannot be reliably
used to determine TBI where a MRI may be inconclusive and a further level of
analysis of the brain would provide additional insight in making a prognosis
for future care. Further, use of DTI does not appear to be new and is already
the subject of considerable professional literature. 
 
          The underlying issues
may be more about how to read the DTI and under what circumstances it may be
useful. Presumably, the analysis should be by someone with the necessary
expertise: Defendants do not appear to argue strenuously that Dr. Chaudry does
not have that expertise. His CV indicates he is an expert in this area with
substantial qualifications. How well he reads the DTI or how much he can
permissibly read into the DTI can likely be the subject of cross-examination
but it does not appear that it is necessary to exclude his opinion merely
because at least in the routine setting DTI should not be used by clinicians in
the first instance. While all doctors must know their science, the difference
between a good physician and a lesser one is often about the quality of how
they practice – or about their credibility for a jury to determine. 
 
          Here, if the MRI results
are inconclusive as to any “mild” TBI, there may be good cause for further
testimony if it would be generally accepted that its use for this purpose is
generally accepted. On the other hand, it may be that use of DTI would be
cumulative and insufficiently probative under Evid. Code sec. 352. That said,
the parties have not provided the Court with the evidence as to the level, if
any, of cognitive impairment of these three plaintiffs to know whether
additional expert testimony might be useful here. 
 
          Moreover,
consistent with People v. Turner (2020) 10 Cal.5th 786, 801,
where there does not appear to be any appellate court  decision affirming a trial court’s decision to
allow expert witness testimony reliant on DTI, under either California law or
under the more permissive federal standards, Defendants are entitled to the Kelly
/ Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing they request on their challenge to the
reliability of DTI as a new medical technique before any consideration by a
jury.  