  Case Number:  20STCV14287    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:   D.G., a minor through his guardian ad  litem Anthony Gonzalez v. Clockwork Property Management, Inc., et al.  Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or  Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the petition for minor’s compromise. The Court  will sign the proposed order.  The Court sets an OSC re proof of  funding of settlement, submission of bond, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 in  the probate division of this Court for _____________, 20__, at 8:30 a.m., in  Department 6 of this Court.  The Court further sets a date of _____________,  20__ for the trustee’s first accounting, to be filed in the probate case.  Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s  ruling and file proof of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This is a premises liability action. On April 13, 2020, plaintiff D.G.,  a minor through his guardian ad litem Anthony Gonzalez (Plaintiff) filed this  action. On May 8, 2020, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint  against defendants Clockwork Property Management, Inc. (Clockwork), RMR Pros  Inc. (RMR), Hanan Faytrouni, and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for  general negligence and premises liability.  On August 6, 2020, Clockwork Property Management, inc. filed a  cross-complaint against Hanan Faytrouni and Roes 1 to 10, alleging causes of  action for equitable indemnity, contractual indemnity, equitable contribution  and apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  On March 30, 2021, Hanan Faytrouni and Khaled A. Faytrouni (collectively,  Faytrouni) filed a cross-complaint against Anthony Gonzalez, Inna Gonzalez, and  Moes 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for negligence, equitable  indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.              On September 6, 2024, petitioner  Anthony Gonzalez (Petitioner) filed a petition for minor’s compromise on behalf  of claimant Dominic Gonzalez (Claimant). The petition is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD Court approval is required for all settlements of a  minor's claim or that of a person lacking the capacity to make decisions.  (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code Civ. Proc., § 372; see Pearson  v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337.) "[T]he  protective role the court generally assumes in cases involving minors, [is] a  role to assure that whatever is done is in the minor's best interests . . . .  [I]ts primary concern is whether the compromise is sufficient to provide for  the minor's injuries, care and treatment." (Goldberg v. Superior Court  (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1382.)  A petition for court approval of a compromise under Code of Civil  Procedure section 372 must comply with California Rules of Court Rules 7.950,  7.951, and 7.952. The petition must be verified by the petitioner and contain a  full disclosure of all information that has "any bearing upon the  reasonableness" of the compromise or the covenant. (Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 7.950.) The person compromising the claim on behalf of the person who  lacks capacity, and the represented person, must attend the hearing on compromise  of the claim unless the court for good cause dispenses with their personal  appearance. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.952(a).) An order for deposit of funds  of a minor or person lacking decision-making capacity and a petition for the  withdrawal of such funds must comply with California Rules of Court Rules 7.953  and 7.954. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384; see also Super. Ct. L.A. County,  Local Rules, rules 4.115-4.118.)  DISCUSSION Form MC-350 (Rev. January 1, 2021) The petition has been verified by Petitioner and  presented on a fully completed mandatory Judicial Council Form MC-350, using  the current January 1, 2021 revision. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)  Settlement  Claimant has agreed to settle his claims with Clockwork and Faytrouni in exchange for $640,000.00  in cash and an assignment of $640,000.00 in indemnity rights against RMR, the  sole remaining Defendant. $351,225.26 of the settlement amount will go to  Claimant. If approved, $234,150.18 will be paid in attorney’s fees, and $54,624.56  will be paid for reimbursement of litigation costs advanced by Claimant’s  attorneys. No medical expenses are listed on the petition, and the Department  of the Army waived its interest in any recovery. (Petition, ¶ 12, Attach. 19.) The  balance of $351,225.26 will be transferred to a special needs trust, and then  disbursed within 15 days from the execution of the Court’s order approving the  minor’s compromise, after which $4,500.00 will be paid in attorney fees to  Randolph M. Sharon, Esq. in connection with the establishment of the special  needs trust, (Id., ¶ 18, subd. (b)(4); Id., ¶ 20,  Attachment 18b(4).)  The Court has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds the  Petition contains a full disclosure of all information that has any bearing  upon the reasonableness of the settlement amount to Claimant.  Notice  Probate Code section 3611, subdivision (c), states: “Notice of the  time and place of the hearing and a copy of the petition shall be mailed to the  State Director of Health Care Services, the Director of State Hospitals, and  the Director of Developmental Services at the office of each director in  Sacramento at least 15 days before the hearing.” (Probate Code, § 3611, subd.  (c).) The Court notes that the proof of service attached to the petition indicates  it was served by mail on the Director’s Office Estate Recovery Section of the Department  of Health Care Services, the Legal Division of the Director of State Hospitals,  and the Director’s Office of the Department of Developmental Services. (Petition,  p. 88 of pdf.) The Court finds this sufficient.  Attorney's Fees  The retained attorney's information has been disclosed as required  by Rule of Court 7.951. (Petition, ¶ 17, subd. (b).) There is an agreement for  services provided in connection with the underlying claim. (Petition, ¶ 17,  subd. (a)(2).) A copy of the agreement was submitted with the Petition as  required by rule 7.951, subdivision (6), of the California Rules of Court. (Petition,  Attach. 17a; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.951, subd. (6).)  Petitioner’s counsel seeks to recover $234,150.18 in attorney's  fees. (Petition,  ¶ 13, subd. (a).) Petitioner’s  counsel has provided a declaration addressing the reasonableness of the fee  request, as required by rule 7.995, subdivision (c), of the California Rules of  Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.995, subd. (c).) Rule 7.955, subdivision  (b), of the California Rules of Court provides: (b) Factors the court may  consider in determining a reasonable attorney's fee. In determining a  reasonable attorney's fee, the court may consider the following nonexclusive  factors: (1) The fact that a minor or  person with a disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or  person with a disability. (2) The amount of the fee in  proportion to the value of the services performed. (3) The novelty and difficulty of  the questions involved and the skill required to perform the legal services  properly. (4) The amount involved and the  results obtained. (5) The time limitations or  constraints imposed by the representative of the minor or person with a  disability or by the circumstances. (6) The nature and length of the  professional relationship between the attorney and the representative of the  minor or person with a disability. (7) The experience, reputation,  and ability of the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services. (8) The time and labor required. (9) The informed consent of the  representative of the minor or person with a disability to the fee. (10) The relative sophistication  of the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a  disability. (11) The likelihood, if apparent  to the representative of the minor or person with a disability when the  representation agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the  particular employment would preclude other employment. (12) Whether the fee is fixed,  hourly, or contingent. (13) If the fee is contingent:  (A) The risk of loss borne by the  attorney; (B) The amount of costs advanced  by the attorney; and (C) The delay in payment of fees  and reimbursement of costs paid by the attorney. (14) Statutory requirements for  representation agreements applicable to particular cases or claims.  (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 7.955(b).) The  Court addresses these factors below.  Amount of Fee in Proportion to  Value of Services Performed  Petitioner’s counsel contends  that the fee is both reasonable and contractual, given that Petitioner’s  counsel’s firm has advanced all the costs in this case. Petitioner’s counsel  contends this matter entailed a large amount of work by several attorneys,  paralegals, and legal assistants, which included extensive written discovery,  depositions, and attending a mediation. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 4.) The Court notes  that Petitioner’s counsel does not specify the percentage requested, but  according to the Court’s calculation, Petitioner’s counsel seeks approximately  37% of the total settlement amount, i.e., $234,150.18 divided by $640,000.00.  Novelty and Difficulty  Petitioner’s counsel contends the  complexity of the issues in this case involved nuanced issues of liability and  required a significant amount of skill and tenacity to negotiate the defenses  posed by skilled defense counsel. Petitioner’s counsel claims to specialize in  high damages and catastrophic injury cases, which were used to achieve this  settlement on Claimant’s behalf. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 5.)  Amount Involved and Results  Obtained  Petitioner’s counsel contends the  results obtained account for the significant risks and uncertainties associated  with trying this case and avoiding those risks by settling now to obtain the  funding needed for Claimant’s care. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 6.)  Time Limitations Imposed by the  Representative of the Minor  Petitioner’s counsel contends  that Claimant’s guardian ad litem did not impose time limitations or  constraints, but did understand the risks associated with trying this case and  sought to settle to void those risks. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 7.)  Nature and Length of Professional  Relationship  Petitioner’s counsel indicates  having entered into an arm’s length legal services agreement with Claimant’s  guardian ad litem, but does not indicate the length of the relationship with  Claimant’s guardian ad litem. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 8.) But, the Court notes the  retainer agreement was entered into in October 2020. (Petition, Attach. 17a.)  Experience, Reputation, and  Ability of Counsel  Petitioner’s counsel states that  Boris Treyzon is widely recognized as a top trial lawyer who regularly obtains  significant verdicts and settlements in some of the most complex cases,  including catastrophic personal injury. Petitioner’s counsel states that the  Daily Journal has listed Mr. Treyzon as one of the Top 100 attorneys in  California and Consumer Attorneys of Los Angeles, and has honored him as the  2021 Trial Lawyer of the Year. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 9.) Petitioner’s counsel  Eduardo J. Ascencio indicates having successfully represented victims of  catastrophic medical negligence for the majority of his career, achieving  numerous multi-million dollar results. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 10.) Petitioner’s  counsel indicates that Katrina Yu, who was previously “of counsel” to  Petitioner’s counsel’s firm, has been involved in obtaining several six and  seven figure settlements and verdicts in catastrophic personal injury cases  over her career. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 11.)  Time and Labor Required  Petitioner’s counsel restates  contentions from paragraphs 3 through 6 of the supporting declaration. (Ascencio  Decl., ¶ 12.)  Informed Consent of Guardian ad  Litem to Fee  Petitioner’s counsel references  the fee agreement Claimant’s guardian ad litem signed as evidence of consent to  the fee. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 13.)  Relative Sophistication of the  Attorney and the Guardian ad Litem  Petitioner’s counsel indicates  that Claimant’s guardian ad litem served the United States honorably, with  distinction, and was honorably discharged. Petitioner’s counsel indicates that  Claimant’s guardian ad litem is college educated, intelligent, and fully  understands the work involved in achieving this settlement. (Ascencio Decl., ¶  14.)  Acceptance of Case Precluding  Other Employment  Petitioner’s counsel does not  address whether acceptance of this case precluded other employment, but only  indicates that Claimant’s guardian ad litem understood at the outset that  Petitioner’s counsel’s firm represents many victims of catastrophic personal  injury. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 15.)  Contingent Fee  Petitioner’s counsel states that  Claimant’s guardian ad litem understood this was case was taken on a  contingency fee agreement that was contingent on achieving a favorable result  for Claimant. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 16.)  Risks, Amount of Costs Advanced,  Delay in Payment of Fees/Costs Advanced  Petitioner’s counsel indicates  that this case was filed in 2020, and that Petitioner’s counsel’s firm advanced  all costs, including expert fees. Petitioner’s counsel indicates that the costs  amount to approximately 4% of the total recovery. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 17.)  Statutory Requirements  Petitioner’s counsel contends the  contingency fee agreement conforms to California law for such agreements.  (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 18.)  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s  counsel has adequately demonstrated the reasonableness of the fee award in  light of the factors and circumstances in this case.  Medical Bills  The Petition states that Claimant has incurred $0.00 in medical  expenses, and the Department of the Army has waived its interest of $1,411,397.88  in Claimant’s recovery. (Petition, ¶ 12, Attach. 19.)  Costs  Petitioner’s counsel seeks to recover $47,114.56 in costs advanced  by Abir Cohen Treyzon Salo, LLP, and $7,510.00 in costs advanced by Manibog Law  PC, for a total of $54,624.56 in costs. (Petition ¶ 13, subd. (b); Id.,  ¶ 14, subd. (b)(3).) Attachment 13b lists the costs incurred by Abir Cohen  Treyzon Salo, LLP. (Petition, Attach. 13b.)  Amount to Be Paid to Claimant  The net amount to be paid to claimant D.C. is $351,225.26.  (Petition, ¶ 15.)  Disposition of Balance of Proceeds  Petitioner requests that the net proceeds, $351,225.26, be transferred  to a special needs trust, after which $4,500.00 of the net proceeds will be  distributed to Randolph M. Sharon for services rendered in connection with the  establishment of the special needs trust. (Petition, ¶ 18, subd. (b)(4); Id.,  Attach. 18b(4).) The Court finds this amount to be reasonable and will grant it.  Special Needs Trust  When approving the establishment or funding of a special needs  trust (SNT) from settlement proceeds, the Court must make the following  findings under Probate Code section 3604, subdivision (b), i.e., there are  factual allegations in the Petition to Approve Compromise and its attachments  supporting the settlement that generally cover the requisite findings:           ·          The SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs  the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes  a substantial handicap;·          The SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not  be met without the trust; ·          The money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that  appears reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.The SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs  the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes  a substantial handicap; The Court finds the proposed SNT meets the main requirements for  court created or funded trusts. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.903, subd. (c);  LASC, rule 4.116, subd. (b).)  Court Appearance  California Rule of Court 7.952 requires attendance by the  petitioner and claimant unless the court for good cause dispenses with their  personal appearance. The Court finds that the appearance of Claimant is not  required due to the nature of his disability. But, the Petitioner is required  to appear at the hearing on this petition.  Trustee and Bond  Normally, a bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee  is a corporate fiduciary. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.903, subd. (c)(5);  Probate Code, § 2320.) The proposed trustee, Shoushan Movsesian, does not meet  that requirement. Thus, the Court will require a bond.  Petitioner calculates a bond of $404,000.00. (Petition, Attach.  18b(4), p. 68 of pdf.) The Court finds this amount sufficient.  Prognosis  Claimant has not recovered completely from the effects of his  injuries, and the injuries are permanent. (Petition, ¶ 8, subd. (c).) The Court  finds that Claimant has a disability that substantially impairs his ability to  provide for his own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap,  namely, that Claimant has severe disabilities in the nature of severe cerebral  palsy, global developmental delay, G-tube and tracheostomy tube dependent. These  disabilities substantially impair his ability to provide for his own care or custody  and constitutes a substantial handicap. His condition appears to be permanent  and he is not expected to experience significant improvement in the future. He  is likely to have special needs related to the disability described above that  will not be met without a special needs trust. Finally, the monies to be paid  to this trust do not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to  meet the special needs of Claimant.  Proposed Order MC-351  Petitioner has filed a Proposed Order Form MC-351.  Other Orders  The Court will also require Petitioner to file a Notice of  Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044  in the probate division of this Court within 60 days of this order. At the  hearing on the petition, the Court will also set a 14-month calendar due date  for the trustee’s first accounting to be filed in the probate case. The Court  will further set an OSC within approximately 60 days of this order to ensure  the funding of the settlement, submission of the bond, purchase of the annuity,  and the filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open a trust supervision action in  probate.  Based on the  foregoing, the Court finds the settlement to be fair and adequate. As the  petition is procedurally in order, the Court GRANTS the petition for minor’s  compromise.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the petition for minor’s compromise. The Court  will sign the proposed order.  The Court sets an OSC re proof of  funding of settlement, submission of bond, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 in  the probate division of this Court for _____________, 20__, at 8:30 a.m., in  Department 6 of this Court.  The Court further sets a date of  _____________, 20__ for the trustee’s first accounting, to be filed in the  probate case.  Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s  ruling and file proof of service of same within five days of the Court’s order.