  Case Number:  22VECV01307    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  T SINGLETON V EQUITY
22VECV01307
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Equity Residential Management,
LLC’s Unopposed Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Introduction 
Defendant Equity Residential
Management, LLC (Defendant) moved to strike portions of Plaintiffs Cary
Singleton and Rebecca Olejniczak’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  The motion placed into
issue paragraphs 1, 31, 43, and 45 and paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Prayer for
Relief or Plaintiffs’ claims to Declaratory Relief, Injunctive Relief, and
Punitive Damages.  The opposition was due
April 4, 2024 and none was filed.  
Discussion 
Previously at the hearing on the
demurrer to the original complaint, the Court sustained the demurrer to the
third cause of action (COA) for declaratory relief.  The Court granted leave to amend the third
COA.  However, Plaintiffs opted to
withdraw the declaratory relief COA in the FAC. 
Because no declaratory relief COA is alleged, the FAC’s request for a
judicial declaration is unfounded.  
The motion to strike the request
for declaratory relief is GRANTED.   
Injunctive relief is not an
express remedy under the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA)
because remedies are limited to damages and attorneys’ fees. (Cal Civ. Code §§
1786.50(a)(1)-(2).) Without statutory grounds or other grounds to seek
injunctive relief, the motion is found to be persuasive.
The motion to strike the request
for injunctive relief is GRANTED.
As to punitive damages,
Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged oppression, fraud, or malice so as to
warrant an award of punitive damages. 
Plaintiffs’ allegations that Defendant’s “violations of the ICRAA was
and is willful and grossly negligent” (Cal Civ. Code § 1786.50(b)) alone is
insufficient because Plaintiffs’ statements are legal conclusions and are not
supported by specific facts which show how they were willful and grossly
negligent.
The motion to strike the request
for punitive damages is GRANTED.
Because Plaintiffs failed to
submit an opposition, Plaintiffs failed to meet their burden to present
facts/argument to show that the pleading defects can be cured.  Because there is no showing that the defects
can be cured, any request for leave to amend is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.