 Case Number:  23SMCV02874    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to vacate default is GRANTED on condition that
defendant pay plaintiff the sum of $2475 in attorneys’ fees.
 
This is a quiet title case. 
Defendant was served with the complaint on August 14, 2023, and a
default was entered on October 4, 2023. 
At the December 26, 2023, Case Management Conference, the court stated
that unless defendant moved quickly, the court would be prepared to assume that
allowing the default was tactical, and thus the default would not be
vacated.  The court required that the
motion be filed by the next hearing, which was February 2, 2024.  No motion was filed by then.  Instead, defendant filed the motion on
February 22, 2024.
 
Defense counsel submitted a declaration pursuant to 473(b)
stating that the default was counsel’s mistake and that relief should be
given.  Under the law, the court must
grant the motion where there is an attorney declaration of fault.  There is an exception if the court
disbelieves counsel and, on the basis of an evidentiary record, concludes that
the decision to accept default was actually made by the client, not
counsel.  (Todd v. Thrifty Corp.
(1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 986.)  Absent that,
however, relief from default is mandatory.
 
Here, counsel Browne states that he mistakenly believed that
the suit was against a different client (also named Ben-Jabr), and that he did
not see the DOE amendment naming his client. 
Once he discovered the mistake, he asked plaintiff’s counsel to
stipulate to set aside the default, but plaintiff refused.  When Browne finally got around to preparing a
motion to vacate default a few months later, he saw the December 26, 2023, or
der.  He claims he did not see it before
then due to knee issues.  
 
The court credits Browne’s statement that the fault was his
and not a deliberate ploy by his client. 
Browne has forthrightly admitted malpractice, and the court will take
him at his word on that.  Therefore, the
motion is GRANTED.  However, where the
motion is granted, the court can condition the order on the payment of opposing
counsel’s fees.  Plaintiff set forth the
fees here, and they are $2475.  The court
will ORDER defendant to pay that amount as a condition to granting the
motion.  Payment is to be made within 5
court days.
 
The court counsel’s attorney Browne to step up his
game.  This was somewhat of a wobbler,
given the court’s express warning on December 26, 2023.  Browne’s decision to take the approach he
took—waiting months before filing the motion—is not sufficient.  The court trusts that attorney Browne will
now start paying the appropriate attention to this case.  While the statute requires that defaults be
set aside when the attorney’s error is the cause, the law is not nearly so
forgiving in other contexts.  Now that
attorney Browne is on notice, the court is not likely to be terribly forgiving
either.  That said, so far as the court
is concerned, we are starting with a clean slate.  The court will set a CMC date and the case
will get back on track.