  Case Number:  21STCV38985    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (GRAYBAR)
On October 22, 2021,
Plaintiffs Donna Frizzell and Carroll Frizzell filed this action alleging Donna
Frizzell developed mesothelioma as a result of secondary exposure from her
husband’s work with asbestos-containing products.  On November 28, 2023, Defendant Greybar
Electronic Company, Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment and alternatively
summary adjudication of the fraud and conspiracy causes of action and request
for punitive damages.  
A.        Objections
            1.         Plaintiffs’
Objections
The Court did not rely on
the Netherton Declaration. 
            2.         Defendant’s
Objections
Nos. 1-3:  Sustained.
Nos. 4-11:  The Court did not rely on this evidence. 
B.        Summary Judgment
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence Donna Frizzell was secondarily exposed to asbestos-containing
products her husband worked with or around from Defendant.  (Motion at p. 7.)  Defendant served an interrogatory asking for
all facts supporting the contention that Donna Frizzell was exposed to asbestos
from Defendant’s products.  (Cappy Decl.,
Ex. F at p. 2.)  Plaintiffs responded
that Donna Frizzell was exposed through her husband’s employment, he brought
home asbestos on his work clothes, and Defendant may have distributed and
supplied asbestos containing parts to the husband’s jobsites.  (Id., Ex. H at pp. 1-2, 3.)  In response to a request for all documents
supporting the contention that Plaintiffs were exposed to asbestos from
Defendant’s products (id., Ex. G at p.3), Plaintiffs responded with a
long list of documents, but did not specify any document showing that Carroll
Frizzell worked with asbestos-containing products from Defendant.  (Id., Ex. I.)
Donna Frizzell is not a
witness in this case due to her illness.  (Cappy Decl., Ex. D.) 
Carroll Frizzell
testified that he bought some of Defendant’s products when he worked at Parker
Electric, but he does not recall which products.  (Cappy Decl., Ex. C at p. 415.)  He does not have any documents, receipts, or
purchase orders relating to the products he used from Defendant, and he does
not remember the name brand or manufacturer of any products he ordered from
Defendant.  (Id. at pp. 419, 420.)
 He has no information that any of the
parts he purchased from Defendant contained asbestos.  (Ibid.) 
The deposition testimony
and discovery responses do not provide evidence Donna Frizzell was secondarily
exposed to asbestos-containing products from Defendant, and thus, Defendant
shifted the burden. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
filed additional excerpts from Carroll Frizzell’s deposition where he testified
that in the 1970s, he purchased many different products from Defendant
including switch gears, panels, and breakers.  (Bendon Decl., Ex. A at pp. 39, 923-924.)  Defendant was one of the places from which his
employer ordered electrical equipment.  (Id.
at p. 925.)  He worked with and around
circuit breakers and panels manufactured by Square D, ITE/Bulldog, and General
Electric.  (Id. at pp. 311-312,
449-450.)  
Defendant, as a
distributor of electric related products, sold some products that may have contained
asbestos until the mid-1980s.  (Bendon
Decl., Ex. E at p. 63-64.)  During the
relevant time period, Defendant sold panel boxes, circuit boards, and breakers.
 (Id. at pp. 54-56.)  Defendant also sold panel boards manufactured
by Square D, General Electric, and ITE/Bulldog.  (Id. at pp. 59, 61.)  Defendant’s corporate representative testified
that he is aware that some panel boards contained Bakelite but is not certain
whether they contained asbestos.  (Id.
at pp. 56-57.) 
This evidence establishes
that Defendant was one of the suppliers of electrical equipment to Carroll
Frizzell’s employer, Defendant sold some asbestos-containing parts, Carroll
Frizzell worked with switch gears, panels, and breakers from Defendant, and he
worked with equipment manufactured by Square D, ITE/Bulldog, and General
Electric.  But this evidence does not
establish that (1) Carroll Frizzell worked with asbestos-containing switch
gears, panels, or breakers from Defendant, or (2) the panel boards manufactured
by Square D, General Electric, and ITE/Bulldog that he worked with came from
Defendant (and not some other supplier) and contained asbestos.
Plaintiffs contend they
need a continuance of the hearing because they have yet to take Defendant’s
deposition about its historical knowledge of the hazards of asbestos and what
it did to prevent asbestos-related injuries.  (Opposition at p. 17.)  Plaintiffs noticed the deposition of Defendant
on December 6, 2023, and both parties agreed that the deposition would take
place on February 29, 2024, long after the hearing of this motion.  (Jones Decl., Ex. A, Ex. C at p. 4.) 
Plaintiffs did not comply
with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) in requesting the
continuance.  That section requires a
declaration submitted with the opposition stating that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot be presented. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration does not identity the facts essential
to their opposition that they cannot present. 
The declaration states they need the deposition to obtain evidence on
Defendant’s corporate history and sales of asbestos-containing products,
knowledge of the hazards of asbestos, efforts to prevent injuries, efforts to
preserve evidence, net worth, and authenticity of documents.  (Jones Decl. at p. 2.)  However, the declaration does not reveal how
a deposition of Defendant could result in evidence of the specific types of
parts from Defendant that Carroll Frizzell worked with.  Only Carroll Frizzell could know the particular
parts he worked with, and he testified that he does not remember.  The request for a continuance is denied.
Because Plaintiffs did
not show a disputed issue, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file a proposed judgment
within five days.
The moving party is to
give notice. 