 Case Number:  23BBCV01131    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Tania murrieta, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
american honda
  motor co., inc.,
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01131
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 13, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Tania Murrieta and Jose
Murrieta Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on October 15, 2018, they purchased
a new 2019 Honda Odyssey.  They allege
they entered into an express written contract with Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”), referred to as the New Vehicle Limited
Warranty.  Plaintiff alleges that the
transmission was defective.  They allege
that they hereby revoke acceptance of the subject vehicle by contacting
Defendant and demanding that the vehicle be repurchased pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Act. 
The complaint, filed May 19, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty; and (2) fraudulent inducement – concealment.    
B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On July 26, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the 2nd cause of action in the complaint and a motion to
strike portions of the complaint. 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
request for judicial notice in support of the opposition to the demurrer. 
On September 29, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
The matter initially came for hearing on
October 6, 2023.  The Court continued the
hearing to October 13, 2023 so that Plaintiffs could file their opposition
papers by October 9, 2023.  No further
briefing was permitted.
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
opposition papers.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of the
second amended complaint filed in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(Alameda County, Case No. RG19009260). 
While this is a court document, the Court declines to take judicial
notice of a complaint filed in a separate, unrelated action.  In their opposition brief, Plaintiffs rely on
the Court of Appeal case Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828.  The Court notes that
the Dhital case has been granted review by the Supreme Court of
California.  The Supreme Court of
California stated in its February 1, 2023 order: “The petition for review is granted. Further action in this matter is
deferred pending consideration and disposition of a related issue in Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc., S272113 (see Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 8.512(d)(2)), or pending further order of the court.”  (Dhital v. Nissan North America
(Cal. 2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82, (Mem)–83.) 
At this time, the Court declines to take judicial notice of the second
amended complaint for the Dhital action. As such, the request is denied. 
            With the reply papers, Defendant
objected to Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.  The objection is sustained. 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Defendant demurs to the 2nd
cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment in the complaint,
arguing that it fails to allege sufficient facts against Defendant.   
The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must
have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119
Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.) “As
with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a concealment/suppression
claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud
(i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.
[Citations.]”  (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186 [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
This
cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be
alleged with particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the
policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the
claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 2nd cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant and its agents intentionally concealed and failed to disclose facts
relating to the transmission defect. 
(Compl., ¶117.)  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant was the only party with knowledge of the transmission defect,
which was never made publicly available nor was the information disclosed to
Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶118.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant produced and
distributed marketing materials to its authorized dealerships to be distributed
to consumers like Plaintiff.  (Id.,
¶119.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
communicates indirectly to consumers about its vehicles through these materials
and that it touted the characteristics of the subject vehicle and its 9-Speed
Transmission without disclosing the defects. 
(Id., ¶¶120, 122.)  Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant actively concealed information from the public, such that
Plaintiffs did not know about the transmission defect at the time of sale.  (Id., ¶¶123-124.)  They allege that Defendant intended to
deceive them by concealing the known issues of the transmission defect in an
effort to sell the vehicle and Defendant fraudulently induced Plaintiffs to
purchase the vehicle.  (Id.,
¶¶125-126.)  
            Defendant
demurs to the 2nd cause of action, arguing that the complaint does
not establish that Defendant omitted a material fact that was contrary to a
material representation made to Plaintiff. 
Defendant argues that at most, Plaintiffs allege facts that the
dealership (Defendant’s purported agents) made statements that amounted to
puffery.  However, the Court cannot
ascertain whether such extrinsic facts are true at this time since dealership’s
representations are not alleged in the complaint.  While a defendant will not be liable for the
falsity of statements of opinion (or mere “puffing”), broad statements
regarding the safety of a product which factually describe an important
characteristic of a product (as opposed to a seller’s subjective opinion about
the merits of a product) can be construed as representations of fact.  (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d
104, 112.)  At this time, the Court
cannot ascertain whether the statements made in marketing material were mere opinion/puffery
or were statements of fact, as the Court is not in receipt of this extrinsic
evidence.  However, Plaintiffs should
provide, upon amendment, further facts regarding the specific
misrepresentations Defendant allegedly made in the marketing materials.[1]  
            Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have not established a duty to disclose the
information omitted.  There is a duty to
disclose: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the
defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when
the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) 
Plaintiffs allege that the information about the transmission defect was solely in the knowledge of Defendant and Defendant
did not make this knowledge publicly available nor did it disclose the
information to Plaintiff.  (Compl.,
¶¶117-118.)  Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant has exclusively known about the transmission defect since 2014 and
yet knowingly sold a dangerous/defective vehicle to Plaintiffs.  (See id., ¶¶19-40.)  However, despite these allegations, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs also allege that the Technical Service Bulletins and
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reports regarding transmission
defects were made publicly available.  (Id.,
¶¶24-39.)  Thus, as currently alleged,
Plaintiffs have not alleged how Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiffs to disclose
the omitted material facts when Plaintiffs had access to the publicly available
TSBs, such that Defendant did not have “exclusive knowledge” of the material
facts since Plaintiff could have accessed this information.  This element of a fraudulent concealment
claim has not been adequately alleged.
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged the element of
Defendant’s intent to deceive Plaintiffs as the allegation is conclusory.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant intended to
deceive them by concealing the known issues in an effort to sell the subject
vehicle.  (Compl., ¶125.)  At the pleading stage, the Court will find
the allegation sufficient as Plaintiffs have alleged the facts they believe
support the allegations for Defendant’s intent. 
Furthermore, this information is better in the knowledge of Defendant
and is better left for discovery. 
            Finally,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred by the economic loss
rule because Plaintiffs fail to allege that Defendant breached any duty
independent of the warranty or that they suffered any independent tort loss
beyond the alleged breach of warranties under the Act.  The economic loss
rule prevents the law of contract and law of tort from dissolving into
one another.  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  Economic losses consist of damages for
inadequate value, cost of repair, replacement of defective products or
consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to
other property.  (Id.)  The rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.  (Id.) 
Tort damages are recoverable in contract cases where the breach of duty
directly causes physical injury, for breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing in insurance contracts, for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy, or where the contract was fraudulently induced.  (Id.
at 989-90.)  
            In the complaint, Plaintiffs allege
that they were exposed numerous times to “potential” personal injury, physical
harm, and related liability from motor vehicle accidents caused by the
transmission defect and problems presented by the vehicle as a result of
Defendant’s fraudulent concealment. 
(Compl., ¶129.)  They allege they
were harmed by purchasing the vehicle including the diminution in the value of
the vehicle, out-of-pocket expenses, damages in the amount of the difference
between the value of the vehicle equipped with a defective transmission and the
value of the vehicle if it had been equipped as warranted, and reliance
damages, as well as registration, insurance, and maintenance costs.  (Id., ¶130.)   
            Although Plaintiffs make claims for
damages based on fraudulent inducement – concealment, the damages sought are
essentially identical to those sought in the 1st cause of action for
violation of the Act (breach of express warranty).  In the 1st cause of action,
Plaintiffs seek “all incidental, consequential, and general
damages resulting from AMERICAN HONDA’s failure to comply with its obligations
under the Song-Beverly Act. Those damages include, but are not limited to,
registration fees and insurance for the Subject Vehicle,” as well as costs,
expenses, attorney’s fees, and civil penalties. 
(Id., ¶¶112-114.)  As
currently alleged, Plaintiffs have not alleged a breach of a tort duty
independent from Defendant’s contractual duties under the warranties.  
            Finally,
Defendant argues that the 2nd cause of action is barred by the
3-year statute of limitations.  (CCP §
338(d).)  Plaintiffs allege that they purchased
the vehicle on October
15, 2018 and it had been equipped with a defective transmission.  (Compl., ¶¶55-56.) They allege they delivered
the vehicle to Ocean Honda North Hollywood on August 15, 2019 related to jumps
and stutters when changing gears.  (Id.,
¶60.)  They allege they delivered the
vehicle to Ocean Honda for the second time on November 14, 2019 for repairs due
to the vehicle hesitating when shifting from 2nd to 3rd
gear and issues with the right passenger door. 
(Id., ¶61.)  They allege
they delivered the vehicle to Ocean Honda a third time on October 5, 2020 for
issues with acceleration.  (Id.,
¶62.)  They allege they delivered the
vehicle to Ocean Honda for a fourth time on December 7, 2020 because the
vehicle did not respond right away when taking off, issues with the gas petal,
and various service lights.  (Id.,
¶63.)  They allege they delivered the
vehicle to Ocean Honda for the fifth time on February 11, 2021 for issues with
the staticky radio.  (Id.,
¶64.)  They allege they delivered the
vehicle to Ocean Honda for the sixth time on November 14, 2019 because the
vehicle hesitated to advance when coming to a complete stop.  (Id., ¶65.)  Plaintiffs allege the earliest date for them
to discover the facts was around October 5, 2020 when they brought the vehicle
for the third time to the authorized repair facility for problems with the
transmission.  (Id., ¶75.)  The complaint
was filed on May 19, 2023.  Plaintiffs
had multiple issues with their vehicle but they allege it was not until October
5, 2020 that they experienced issues related to the transmission.  The action was filed within 3 years from the
October 5, 2020 date when they were first allegedly aware of the transmission
issues.  
The Court
must take the allegations as true at the pleading stage. At this time, it is
difficult to determine, based on the timing of the vaguely alleged defects, the
vaguely alleged representations, the vaguely alleged relation of the defects to
the NHTSA reports, at what point the Plaintiff’s knew or should have known that
they had a fraud claim. For this reason, the Court will not make a definitive
ruling upon the statute of limitations at this time. Given the obligation to
accept allegations as true, it is uncertain that the Court will be able to make
such a ruling at the demurrer stage. 
            For
the reasons discussed above, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action
is sustained.  As this is Plaintiffs’
first attempt at the pleading, the Court will allow Plaintiffs an opportunity
to amend this cause of action.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant
moves to strike the allegations for punitive damages in the prayer for damages
(page 27, line 2,
subpart 6).  
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Further, when the punitive damages are sought against
an employer, Civil Code § 3294(b) requires the plaintiff to establish the
following:
(1)  
the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized,
(2)  
the
employer ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded, or
(3)  
the
employer was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, section 3294(b)
requires that the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
            The
Court has reviewed the allegations of the complaint and finds that it does not
reach the level of particularly required to request punitive damages.  The allegations are lacking regarding
Defendant’s malicious and oppressive behavior. 
At most, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant willfully failed to comply
with its responsibilities under the Act, but this allegation is insufficient to
meet the requisite level of particularity for punitive damages.  (See Compl., ¶114.)  Further, as discussed above, the allegations
for fraud are not sufficiently pled.
            The
motion to strike is granted with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s demurrer to the 2nd cause of action
in the complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s motion to strike the allegations for punitive
damages is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 


