 Case Number:  21BBCV00674    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
DBIK
  construction & design, inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FOUR JOY INVESTMENT
  LLC,
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.: 21BBCV00674
 
  Hearing Date:  October 13, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for relief from waiver of objections; motion for protective
  order 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff Dbik Construction &
Design, Inc. (“Dbik”) alleges that it entered into a construction agreement
with Defendant Four Joy Investment LLC on April 30, 2019, in which Dbik agreed
to provide certain improvements to real property located at 1200 E Huntington
Dr., Duarte, CA 91010 including the renovation of the exterior and roof of a
67-unit hotel building, the exterior renovation of a separate 8-unit commercial
building, and landscaping of the entire property.  In exchange, Defendants agreed to pay
Plaintiff a total of $945,000.  In the
next 4 months, structural safety concerns were discovered with respect to the
commercial building, which necessitated the addition of a central column in the
building and other design changes. 
During the construction, supervision costs escalated due to increased
scope of work, COVID-19 pandemic challenges, involvement of third-party
contractors hired by Four Joy Investment LLC, etc.  Dbik alleges that for the additional
supervision, it is entitled to a project management fee of $828,823.31, or
approximately 20%.  Dbik alleges that the
total change order between the parties increased the contract amount by
$3,899,454.44, resulting in an adjusted contract amount of $4,844,454.44.  Dbik alleges it made a demand for
$4,844,454.44 and Defendants have failed to pay $1,776,084.08 remaining.  
            The complaint, filed July 30, 2021,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book account;
(3) account stated; (4) reasonable value of labor and materials furnished; and
(5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. 
            On October 1, 2021, Dbik filed an
Amendment to Complaint, naming Doe 1 as “Four Joy One LLC a California limited
liability company.”  On October 8, 2021,
Dbik filed an Amendment to Complaint, correcting the name of “Four Joy
Investment LLC, a California Corporation” to “Four Joy Investment LLC, a
California Limited Liability Company.”  
B.    
Cross-Complaints
On July 11, 2022, Cross-Complainants Dbik
and Danny Hung Cheng filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Angel
Development, Inc., N Pro Electric, and Albert Harding Butcher Jr. dba Harding
Construction for: (1) implied indemnity; (2) contribution and indemnity; (3)
declaratory relief; and (4) negligence. 
On September 21, 2023, the default of N Pro Electric, Inc. was entered
upon the request of Dbik and Cheng. 
On February 17, 2023, Cross-Complainants
Four Joy Investment, LLC and Four Joy One, LLC (“Four Joy Entities”) filed a
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“Four Joy FAXC”) against Cross-Defendants Dbik
and “Danny” Hung Cheng for: (1) violation of Business & Professions Code,
§§ 7125.2 and 7031(b) (disgorgement action against unlicensed contractor); (2)
violation of Business & Professions Code, § 7160 (statutory fraud by
unlicensed contractor); (3) (deceit) intentional misrepresentation; (4) deceit
(negligent misrepresentation); (5) negligence; and (6) violation of Business
& Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.  On September 14, 2023, the Four Joy FAXC was
dismissed without prejudice.
On January 20, 2023, Four Joy Entities
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Angel Development, Inc. for:
(1) intentional misrepresentation (fraud/deceit); (2) negligent
misrepresentation; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (5) negligence; and (6) recovery of payments made
to unlicensed subcontractors pursuant to Business & Professions Code, §
7031(b).  That same day, the Four Joy
Entities filed an Amendment to Cross-Complaint naming Roe 1 as DC International
Design & Construction, Inc. 
C.    
Motions on Calendar
On May 18, 2023,
Defendant Four Joy Investment, LLC (“Four Joy”) filed a motion for relief from
waiver of objections to amended inspection demands.
On May 25, 2023,
Four Joy filed a motion for protective order and monetary sanctions in the
amount of $3,380.80 against Albert Harding Butcher Jr. d.b.a. Harding
Construction.
The Court is not
in receipt of opposition briefs. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER
            Four Joy moves for relief from
waiver of objections to the amended inspection demands propounded by 
            CCP
§ 2031.300 states in relevant part:
If a party to whom
a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall
apply:
(a) The party to whom the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any
objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court,
on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that
both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections
2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280.
(2) The party's
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.
(CCP
§ 2031.300(a).)  
            Four Joy states that Cross-Defendant
Albert Harding Butcher Jr. dba Harding Construction (“Harding”) served the
Demand for Inspection of Real Property and Documents, set one, on January 13,
2023 on Dbik.  Four Joy states that,
though the demand was directed at Dbik, Four Joy objected to Harding’s demand
on February 15, 2023, as it concerned Four Joy’s property.  Four Joy states that Harding served an
amended demand on Dbik on February 21, 2023, removing the demand for inspection
of Four Joy’s real property, but then served another amended demand on March
21, 2023 on Dbik renewing the request to inspect Four Joy’s property.  Four Joy states that the parties engaged in
discussions regarding the inspection demand, including conducting a deposition
(completed on May 15, 2023) by Harding to determine the extent of the damage
sustained by Four Joy.  
Four Joy’s counsel, Roland Ho, states that
based on the numerous amended inspection demands and informal discussions
exchanged as to the inspection, he was under the mistaken belief that
objections were made as to the March 21, 2023 amended demand and he did not
seek an agreement that would allow the initial objections to be renewed as to
the March 21, 2023 amended demand.  (Ho
Decl., ¶7.)  He states that on May 2,
2023, he immediately served, after reviewing the records, objections to
Harding’s March 21, 2023 amended demand. 
(Id., ¶8, Ex. 6.)  He
states that with the inspection of the real property approaching on May 31,
2023 (the motion was filed on May 18, 2023), conferences were held between Four
Joy and counsel and concerns appeared regarding the dangers of an on-site
property inspection, including climbing onto the rooftop to perform the
inspection by opposing parties.  (Id.,
¶9.)  Mr. Ho states that on May
17, 2023, his office served amended responses with objections,
relaying the risks associated with a physical property inspection.  (Id., ¶10, Ex. 7.)   He
states that Four Joy is willing to allow inspection, provided that all persons
attending and participating in the inspection process execute a mutually agreeable
waiver of liability and present proof of insurance to address Four Joy’s
concerns.  (Id., ¶11.)  Four Joy states that to access part of the
rooftop, people will need to climb the latter attached to the side of the
building, rendering such an act highly dangerous and risky.  (Id., ¶11, Ex. 8.)  
The Court grants Four Joy’s motion for
relief from waiver of objections to the amended inspection demand.  Four Joy failed to timely object to the third
amended inspection demand (dated March 21, 2023) after having objected to the
first inspection demand and engaging in meet and confer efforts.  Four Joy has shown that it served an
objection on May 2, 2023 and then an amended objection on May 17, 2023.  The objections are in substantial compliance
with the code.  In addition, Mr. Ho has
provided his declaration showing that the failure to serve a timely response
was the result of a mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  
For these reasons, the motion for relief
from waiver of objections is granted. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER      
            Four Joy moves for a protective
order regarding the physical inspection of the premises at issue.  Four Joy states that it does not object to
the inspection, but expresses concerns for the safety of the individuals who
will be attending and participating in the inspection as well as the interests
of the property owner.  Four Joy is
concerned that one misstep up the ladder to the building’s rooftop could cause
serious consequences or death.  Thus,
Four Joy moves for a protective order regarding the inspection that it be made
on specified terms and conditions.  (See
CCP § 2031.060(b)(4).)  
            Specifically, Four Joy seeks: (1)
the execution of a mutually agreeable waiver of liability; (2) proof of
certificate of insurance, with a minimum of $1 million coverage, for each and
every person involved in the inspection process; (3) limiting the number of
people going onto the roof; and (4) whatever order the Court deems just and
reasonable under the circumstances.  
            The Court grants Four Joy’s request
that parties and persons involved in the physical inspection of the premises
execute a mutually agreeable waiver of liability.  The parties should meet and confer about mutually
agreeable release language for the inspection of the roof.  
With respect to the request to limit the
number of people going onto the roof, the Court finds this reasonable such that
only one person may climb the building’s ladder at a time.  However, the Court lacks information
regarding how big the rooftop is and how many persons can be on the rooftop at
one time.  The Court is inclined to allow
three persons on the rooftop at a time—one expert and one designated individual
(likely counsel) per party, plus one Four Joy representative; however, the
Court will inquire more at the hearing whether this is prudent or whether there
is insufficient space on the roof for this many individuals.  
            The Court is inclined to deny the
request that each person obtain proof of certificate of insurance, with a
minimum of $1 million coverage, for each and every person involved in the
inspection process.  However, the Court
will hear oral argument on the matter to see if there are any objections or
whether the parties are amenable to the suggestion. 
            Four Joy seeks sanctions against
Harding because the “demanding party has failed to realize the dangers and
risks accompanying the activity.”  (Mot.
at p.7.)  The request for sanctions is
denied.  This is not a valid basis for
sanctions.  Further, Harding would not
have been aware of Four Joy’s concerns until Four Joy (belatedly) provided
objections on this basis.  The request
for sanctions is denied.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendants Four Joy
Investment, LLC’s motion for relief from waiver of objections is granted.   
Defendants Four Joy
Investment, LLC’s motion for a protective order is granted such that the Court
will order that the parties and anyone involved in the physical inspection of
the subject premises execute a mutually agreeable waiver of liability.  The Court will order the parties to attend
the hearing so that it may discuss the other requests for protective
order—namely, the request to limit the number of people going onto the roof and
obtaining proof of a certificate of insurance per person involved with the
inspection.  At the hearing, the parties
should be prepared to discuss the size of the roof and the reasonable number of
persons that should be able to be on the roof at one time, as well as whether
there are any objections to obtaining insurance for the inspection.  The request for monetary sanctions in
connection with the motion for protective order is denied. 
Defendant shall
give notice of this order. 
 
 