 Case Number:  22BBCV00901    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
margaret
  Stephens,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
City of burbank,   
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.: 22BBCV00901
 
  Hearing Date:  October 13, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for terminating, issue, and/or evidentiary sanctions;
  request for monetary sanctions 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff
Margaret Stephens (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on November 3, 2021, she fell and
was injured as a result of a dangerous condition of the premises located at or
near a sidewalk on the northwest corner of the intersection of N. 1st
Street and E. Olive Avenue in Burbank.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant City of Burbank (“Defendant”) negligently designed,
constructed, maintained, controlled, and/or managed the premises, which
constituted a dangerous and defective condition. 
The complaint,
filed November 2, 2022, alleges a single cause of action for premises
liability. 
B.     Relevant
Background and Motion on Calendar 
On
June 16, 2023, Defendant’s 2 unopposed motions to compel initial responses from
Plaintiff for: (1) Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, set one;
and (2) Document Demands, set one were granted. 
The Court ordered Plaintiff to provide verified responses without
objection within 20 days of notice of the order.  The Court also awarded Defendant sanctions in
the total amount of $950, to be paid within 20 days of notice of the
order.  
On July 19,
2023, Defendant filed a motion for terminating, issue, and/or evidentiary
sanctions against Plaintiff and for monetary sanctions in the amount of $900.   On July 19, 2023, Defendant filed an amended
notice of motion with the correct hearing date. 

On October 2,
2023, Plaintiff filed opposition papers. 
On October 6,
2023, Defendant filed a reply brief.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
moves for terminating sanctions or, alternatively, issue and evidentiary
sanctions against Plaintiff for her willful failure to provide responses to the
SROG and RPD pursuant to the Court’s order. 

A.   
Terminating Sanctions
CCP § 2023.030 permits the Court to impose
terminating sanctions for discovery misuses, which are defined by CCP § 2023.010
to include the failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery and the
failure to comply with a Court discovery order. 
The Court weighs the following factors when considering the present
motion: (1) defendants’ conduct, indicating whether their actions were willful;
(2) the detriment to the party seeking discovery; and (3) the number of formal
and informal unsuccessful attempts to obtain discovery.  (Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)  Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified
where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and
evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules.  (Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.)
By way of background, Defendant states
that it served on Plaintiff the written discovery requests (FROG, SROG, and
RPD) on March 3, 2023, which caused Defendant to file 2 motions to compel
initial responses, which were granted on June 16, 2023.  Pursuant to the Court’s order, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff was required to provide responses by July 7, 2023, but
Plaintiff failed to do so.  Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s actions amount to a violation of the Court’s order. 
However, Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff’s
conduct in failing to provide timely responses was willful.  Defendant has not stated what attempts were
made to obtain the discovery after the Court’s order, such as by contact
Plaintiff and her attorney via email or telephone to inquire about the
discovery.  
In opposition, Plaintiff states that she
does not dispute that the Court should impose monetary sanctions against her
attorney, but that the Court should deny the remainder of the motion.  Plaintiff provides the declarations of Yoon
S. Kim and G. Seth Mitchell.  Mr. Kim
states that he has experienced a lot of turnover at his firm and had
unqualified paralegals that caused delays and multiple mistakes.  Mr. Kim states that had this case not been
transferred to Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Kim likely would not have been aware of the
motion.  (Kim Decl., ¶18.)  Mr. Kim apologizes to the Court and counsel
for the failures that occurred during the handling of the case, which included
Plaintiff’s failure to provide complete and verified discovery responses.  (Id., ¶19.)  He states that the failure was not intentional
or willful, was not the fault of Plaintiff, and was completely due to the
inadvertence on his part.  (Id.)  Mr. Mitchell states in his declaration that
as soon as he received the case file, he immediately had his paralegal
ascertain hearing dates and deadlines.  (Mitchell
Decl., ¶¶5-9.) He states that he attempted to rectify Mr. Kim and his staff’s
former mistakes by preparing discovery responses, which were served on
September 20, 2023.  (Id., ¶10;
Ex. 1 [FROG set two and RFA set one responses].)  He states that he directed a check to be sent
for the sanctions amount.  (Id.,
¶12.) 
The Court declines to award terminating
sanctions in this case.  While the delay
in providing responses is not ideal, Plaintiff’s counsel has explained the
cause of the delay and shown that the failure to provide responses in a timely
manner was due to the inadvertence of counsel and not as a result of
Plaintiff’s willful failure to comply with the Court’s order.  Based on the representations of Plaintiff and
counsel in the opposition papers, it appears that efforts have been made or are
being made to comply with Plaintiff’s discovery obligations and the Court’s
order regarding discovery.  Thus, to
avoid litigation delays, the Court denies the motion for terminating sanctions.
For these reasons, the Court denies the
motion for terminating sanctions.  
B.    
Issue/Evidence Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030, the Court may impose
issue sanctions ordering that designated facts be taken as established in the
action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process.  (CCP § 2023.030(b).)  The Court may impose an evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence.  (CCP § 2023.030(c).)  Any motion for issue or evidentiary sanctions
must be accompanied by a separate statement. 
(CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(7).)  Again, two
prerequisites for the imposition of non-monetary sanctions are: (1) there must
be a failure to comply; and (2) the failure must be willful.  (Vallbona
v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  The party requesting sanctions under CCP § 2023.030
and §2023.010(g) must establish that the other party has failed to comply or
disobeyed a court order to provide discovery. 
(CCP §2023.010(g); Miranda v. 21st
Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, 929 [first requirement of
failure to comply].)
For the same reasons discussed above, the
Court denies Defendant’s alternative request for issue and/or evidence
sanctions.  If Plaintiff engages in
further delays to provide discovery, the Court may consider sanctions in the
future.  However, the Court does not find
that at this time that non-monetary sanctions are warranted or that Plaintiff’s
failure to comply with discovery obligations was willful. 
C.    
Monetary Sanctions 
Defendant seeks
monetary sanctions in the amount of $900. 
In opposition, Plaintiff states that she does not dispute that monetary
sanctions should be imposed.  (Opp. at
p.2.)  
The Court awards
monetary sanctions in favor of Defendant in the amount of $900.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant City
of Burbank’s motion for terminating sanctions or, alternatively, issue and/or
evidentiary sanctions is denied.  Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is granted. 
Plaintiff
and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $900 to Defendant, by and through counsel, within 20
days of notice of this order.
Defendant shall provide
notice of this order.
 