 Case Number:  21STCV05117    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
marco morante, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
theoldschool, llc, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  21STCV05117
 
  Hearing Date:  October 13, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff Marco Morante (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that in January 2019, he entered into a contract (the Participation Agreement)
with Defendants TheOldSchool, LLC (“TheOldSchool”) and Netflix, Inc. (“Netflix”)
for Plaintiff’s participation in a television show produced and distributed by
Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges that
pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Defendants would administer a clothing
design competition called “Next in Show,” wherein Plaintiff and other
participants would create clothing designs at a television production set
maintained and operated by Defendants.  Plaintiff
alleges that in April 2019, production for the television show began.  He alleges that on April 22, 2019, he
suffered personal injuries on the premises of the production set when a loose
metal bar, which secured fabric to a materials rack, fell from the set and
struck his face.  He alleges that the
accident occurred as a result of the negligent care and operation of the
production set by Defendants.  Plaintiff
alleges that prior to the metal bar’s falling, he gave actual notice of the
dangerous condition existing on the production set, but Defendants refused or
neglected to ameliorate the dangerous condition.  
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants undertook
to furnish medical care by medical professionals, but the medical care furnished
did not meet his medical needs. 
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants curtailed his ability to
participate in the competition and deprived him of the benefits of the
Participation Agreement.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed July
11, 2023, alleges a cause of action for gross negligence.    
B.     Motions on Calendar 
On August 14, 2023, Defendants
filed a demurrer and a motion to strike portions of the FAC. 
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a single, untimely opposition brief to the demurrer and motion to strike.
On October 6, 2023,
Defendants filed a single reply brief. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Defendants request
judicial notice of Exhibit 3 to the declaration of Edward Romero: The Notice of
Entry of Order on Demurrer and Motion to Strike, filed in this action on May 9,
2023.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER
            Defendants demur to the sole
cause of action for gross negligence in the FAC on the grounds that it fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against them. 
“Gross
negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of negligence: duty,
breach, causation, and damages. [Citation.] However, to set forth a
claim for ‘gross negligence’ the plaintiff must allege extreme conduct on the
part of the defendant.  [Citation.] The conduct alleged must rise to the
level of ‘either a “want of even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the
ordinary standard of conduct.” ’ ” (Rosencrans v. Dover Images,
Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082 [internal quotation marks
omitted].) 
In the sole cause of action for
gross negligence, Plaintiff alleges that he suffered personal injuries as a
result of a metal bar falling on his face while on the production set of the
show, which Defendants dangerously and negligently operated and maintained on
April 22, 2019.  (FAC, ¶18.)  He alleges that Defendants failed to maintain
the production set in a reasonably safe condition in that they failed to take
reasonable measures to ameliorate the dangerous condition of which Plaintiff
had given Defendants actual notice.  (Id.,
¶¶20, 26.)  He alleges that Defendants
knew or reasonably should have known that failing to maintain the premises in a
reasonably safe condition was inadequate in ensuring Plaintiff’s health and
wellness on the production set.  (Id.,
¶21.)  He alleges that Defendant had sole
control over the set design and construction required for the show, including
the installation of the fabric racks, and that they installed the fabric racks
which would not actually hold fabric when the contestant would access the rack
to dispense fabric; instead, the rack would dislodge thereby causing a reel of
fabric to fall dangerously upon contestants when accessed.  (Id., ¶¶24-25.)  He alleges that Defendants’ acts and
omissions, including their negligent construction of the fabric racks and their
refusal to ameliorate the dangerous condition despite notice, constituted a
want of scant care and an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
care.  (Id., ¶¶23, 27.)  Plaintiff alleges that as a cause of
Defendants’ gross negligence, he sustained damages of permanent and serious personal
injuries, loss of earnings, and medical expenses.  (Id., ¶¶22, 28.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
changed his allegations from the initial complaint to the FAC without
explanation.  Specifically, Defendants
argue that the “subject incident” was defined as his injury when the accident
occurred as a result of Defendants’ negligent care and operation of the
production set. (Compl., ¶¶12, 18.)  They
also argue that Plaintiff attempts to redefine the term “dangerous condition”
because the initial complaint defined it as the metal bar falling onto
Plaintiff’s face, while the FAC attempts to expand this definition to the
construction of the materials rack.  
The Court does not find these
additional allegations in the FAC to be an unexplained sham pleading or a
departure from the original definitions in the complaint.  Rather, the allegations of the FAC provide
additional background facts that were not fully alleged in the initial
complaint.  It may very well be that the
alleged negligent construction of the materials rack caused the loose metal bar
holding fabric to fall on Plaintiff’s face. 
The metal bar was on the constructed rack.  Plaintiff’s additional facts regarding the
construction of the materials’ rack are not necessarily inconsistent with the allegations
of the initial complaint.  Yet they are
also not necessarily sufficient to make a showing of “gross” negligence.  
Next, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to show that Defendants’ conduct was
extreme.  They argue that the FAC alleges
that “on that same day just prior to the Subject Incident, Plaintiff gave
defendants actual notice of the dangerous condition which led to and caused the
Subject Incident by verbally notifying production set personnel working for
defendants that the loose metal bar would likely fall from the materials rack
without being further secured.”  (FAC,
¶19.)  Defendants argue that Plaintiff
has not alleged the time between speaking with (unidentified) personnel and
when he was injured.  They also argue
that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts showing that Defendants engaged
in extreme conduct with respect to the maintenance or repair of the metal bar
on the materials rack or allegations showing how the rack was defective.  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that he has alleged facts showing that Defendants’ acts and omissions amount to
“want of even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the ordinary standard
of conduct.”  (Opp. at p.5.)  While the FAC alleges these phrases, the
allegations supporting these are not supported by facts.  Plaintiff’s allegations
merely recite the elements of gross negligence in a conclusory fashion and do
not support these allegations with facts to show that Defendants’ conduct
constituted anything beyond ordinary negligence.  The Court raised this issue in its prior
ruling on the demurrer to the initial complaint and the same defect
persists.  (Further, as noted in the
Court’s prior order on the demurrer to the initial complaint, the Participation
Agreement included an exculpatory clause that barred Plaintiff’s
claim for negligence.)  
            As the
allegations currently stand, Plaintiff’s FAC fails to allege sufficient facts
to allege a cause of action for gross negligence against Defendants.  Based on Plaintiff’s opposition papers,
Plaintiff has not shown how, upon amendment, he can include additional facts to
allege a cause of action for gross negligence against Defendants.  As such, the demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.   
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendants move to
strike the entirety of the FAC and paragraphs 15 and 16. 
            In light of the ruling
on the demurrer, the motion to strike is taken off-calendar as moot. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants TheOldSchool, LLC and Netflix, Inc.’s demurrer to the FAC is
sustained without leave to amend as to the sole cause of action for gross
negligence. 
Defendants’ motion to strike is taken off-calendar in light of the
ruling on the demurrer.
Based upon the above ruling, this case is dismissed with prejudice.   
Defendants shall provide notice of this order. 
 