 Case Number:  23BBCV01756    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
millstone
  point, llc, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
STAY
  LLC, et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01756
    
  Hearing Date:  October 13, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment 



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Millstone Point, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Defendants Stay LLC (“Stay”) and
Empathy Labs LLC (“Empathy”).  The
property at issue is located at 215 N. Hollywood Way in Burbank.  Plaintiff is alleged to be the owner of the
property. 
On February 24, 2023, Stay and Empathy
entered into a written, 5-year tenancy agreement with Plaintiff for the
property.  Plaintiff alleges that on July
21, 2023, Defendants were served with a 3-day notice to pay rent or quit.  Plaintiff seeks possession of the premises, costs
incurred in the proceeding, past due rent of $36,000, reasonable attorney’s
fees, forfeiture of the agreement, and damages at the rate of $400 per day from
August 1, 2023.  
B.    
Relevant Background
On August 23,
2023, “Matthieu Waulters – Empathy Labs LLC” filed an answer to the
complaint.  (It does not appear that Matthieu
Waulters is an attorney.  Thus, Empathy
is not represented by counsel.)  On
October 3, 2023, the Court voided the answer filed by Empathy.  
On September 19, 2023, the default of Stay
LLC was entered.  
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion for summary judgment in its favor against Defendants Empathy and
Stay.    
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION 
CCP § 1161 defines
“unlawful detainer” in relevant part as follows: 
2. When the tenant continues
in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in
estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent,
pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three
days' notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in
writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that is due, the name, telephone number, and
address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be made, and, if payment
may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be available
to receive the payment (provided that, if the address does not allow for
personal delivery, then it shall be conclusively presumed that upon the mailing
of any rent or notice to the owner by the tenant to the name and address
provided, the notice or rent is deemed received by the owner on the date
posted, if the tenant can show proof of mailing to the name and address
provided by the owner), or the number of an account in a financial institution
into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street address of
the institution (provided that the institution is located within five miles of
the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer procedure has been
previously established, that payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or
possession of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant and if there is a
subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.
(CCP
§ 1161(2).)  
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment in
its favor against Defendants.  Plaintiff
provides the following undisputed facts: 
Plaintiff is the owner of the residential
property located at 215 N. Hollywood Way in Burbank.  (Pl.’s Fact 1.)  Defendants occupy the premises pursuant to a
written rental agreement (“Lease”).  (Id.
at 2.)  The current monthly rent for the premises
is $12,000 due on the 1st of the month.  (Id. at 3.)  Defendants failed to pay the monthly rate
that came due for May 1, 2023 to July 31, 2023. 
(Id. at 4.)  On July 18,
2023, Plaintiff served on Defendants a Three-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit
(“Notice”) at the premises (after no person of suitable age or discretion could
be found) by causing the Notice to be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the Notice in U.S. Mail in a sealed envelope with
postage fully prepared, addressed to Defendants at the premises.  (Id. at 5.)  Plaintiff does not know of Defendants’
current place of employment if different from the premises.  (Id.) 
The Notice demanded past due rent for May 1, 2023 to July 31, 2023
only.  (Id. at 6.)  Defendants did not pay the amount demanded in
the Notice or vacate the premises within the notice period or any time
thereafter.  (Id. at 7.)  Thus, Plaintiff filed this unlawful detainer
on August 1, 2023 due to nonpayment of rent. 
(Id.)  Plaintiff has not
received rental assistance or other financial compensation from any source
corresponding to the amount demanded in the Notice or for rent accruing after
the date of the Notice.  (Id. at
8-9.)  Plaintiff does not have any
pending application for rental assistance or other financial compensation from
any other source corresponding to the amount demanded in the Notice or for rent
accruing after the date of the Notice.  (Id.
at 10-11.)  To date, Defendants remain in
possession of the premises.  (Id.
at 12.)  The reasonable rental value of
the rent for the premises is $400/day, which is based on the monthly rental value
of $12,000 divided by 30 days.  (Id.
at 13.)  
Here, Plaintiff has established its burden
establishing that Defendants failed to make rental payments as agreed in the
Lease and failed to cure the default after receipt of the Notice.  Plaintiff has established the elements of an
unlawful detainer claim for the real property at issue.  
As a separate issue, Plaintiff argues that
Empathy’s self-representation is improper. 
Empathy’s answer was filed by Matthieu Waulters, who does not appear to
be an attorney.  However, as noted above,
Empathy’s answer has already been stricken. 
The default of Empathy has not yet been requested or entered.  
As such, the burden shifts to Defendants
to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.  Pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1351, Defendants may
present an oral opposition at the time of the hearing or file a written
opposition one day before the hearing.  However,
as noted above, Empathy’s answer has been stricken and Stay LLC is in
default.  At this time, the Court is not
in receipt of a written opposition brief, such that Defendants have not raised
triable issues of material fact. 
Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is granted.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER  
            Plaintiff
Millstone Point, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to lodge with the Court
and serve on Defendants a proposed judgment within ten (10) days and to provide
notice of this order.
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 