 Case Number:  23BBCV01184    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
rachel
  satterefield,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
gpk &
  asociates llc, et
  al,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01184
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 13, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Rachel
Satterfield (“Plaintiff”) alleges that at various, multiple times prior to
filing the complaint and within 1 year thereof, Defendant Hunter Warfield, Inc.
(“HWI”), on behalf of Defendant GPK & Associates LLC (“GPK”) contacted
Plaintiff in connection with collection of an alleged debt.  Plaintiff alleges that HWI reported to
Plaintiff’s credit report, furnishing false and misleading information about
the nature and amount of the debt. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to conduct an adequate
investigation of Plaintiff’s complaints and failed to implement corrective
actions.  Plaintiff alleges that she does
not owe the alleged debt.  
The complaint,
filed May 30, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Rosenthal
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Civ. Code, § 1788 et seq.); (2)
violation of the California Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act (Civ. Code,
§ 1785.25(a)); and (3) violation of the Unfair Competition Law (Bus. &
Profs. Code, § 17200 et seq.).  
B.    
Answer and Cross-Complaint
On August 10,
2023, GPK filed an answer to the complaint.  The answer includes a general denial and 22
affirmative defenses. 
On August 10,
2023, GPK filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for breach of contract and
money damages. 
C.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On August 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed a demurrer to GPK’s answer to the complaint.  
The Court is not
in receipt of an opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
demurs to GPK’s answer to the complaint on the grounds that it does not allege
facts that are sufficient to constitute a defense and/or the defense are
uncertain.  
            The
Court has reviewed GPK’s answer and finds that the affirmative defenses are not
adequately pled.  First, CCP § 431.30(g)
requires that “[t]he defenses shall be separately stated, and the several
defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer,
in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.”  In the answer, Defendant generally states
that the affirmative defenses apply to all of Plaintiff’s claims, but fails to
state how these defenses separately apply to each cause of action.  
Second, Defendant fails to specifically
plead any ultimate facts to support how these defenses apply to bar Plaintiff’s
causes of action or absolve Defendant from liability.  (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [stating that
answer must aver facts as carefully as “new matter” pursuant to CCP § 431.30(b)
and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and
which are alleged in the complaint].) “The same pleading of ‘ultimate facts’
rather than ‘evidentiary’ matter or ‘legal conclusions’ is required as in
pleading the complaint.”  (Civ. Proc.
Before Trial, Rutter Guide (June 2023 Update) Ch. 6-C, § 6:459.)  “The answer must aver facts ‘as carefully and
with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and which
are alleged in the complaint.’”  (Id. [quoting FPI Development, supra, 231
Cal.App.3d at 384].)  “In general, any
issue on which defendant bears the burden of proving at trial is ‘new matter’
and must be specially pleaded in the answer.”  
(Civ. Proc. Before Trial, supra, § 6:431.)  Plaintiff may demur to an answer on the
ground of insufficient pleading of defenses (CCP § 430.20).  (Id.,
§ 6:470.)  The allegations of the answer
do not allege sufficient facts and, without supporting facts, the affirmative
defenses are also uncertain. 
The Court sustains the demurrer to the
answer.  As this is GPK’s first attempt
at the pleading, the Court will allow leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff
Rachel Satterfield’s demurrer to Defendant GPK & Associates LLC’s answer to
the complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
Plaintiff shall
give notice of this order.  
 
