  Case Number:  23TRCV00815    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JOSE
  GOMEZ, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00815




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MIGUEL
  HERNANDEZ, 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 9,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Miguel Hernandez
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Production of Documents and Things
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Jose Gomez is ordered to
respond without objections to defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) within
twenty days. 
Plaintiff Jose Gomez is ordered (1)
to serve on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s
Request for Production of Documents (Set One) and (2) to produce all documents
and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to defendant’s request, within twenty days.  
 
  
The Court orders that plaintiff Jose
Gomez and plaintiff’s attorney of record, Jesse L. Halpern, Esq. (SBN 37962),
jointly and severally, pay $620 in sanctions to defendant, within 30 days.
BACKGROUND
On March 20, 2023, plaintiff Jose
Gomez filed a complaint against Miguel Hernandez for motor vehicle negligence
based on an incident that occurred on June 9, 2021 in Inglewood.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories 
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.  
            Request for Production of
Documents 
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Miguel Hernandez requests that the Court compel plaintiff Jose Gomez to respond
to the initial form interrogatories and request for production of documents.
            Defendant
asserts that on April 28, 2023, defendant propounded discovery requests on plaintiff.  Responses were due by May 30, 2023.  On December 12, 2023, defense counsel sent a
meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s counsel but did not receive a
response.  As of the filing date of the
motions, defense counsel had not received responses.
            The
Court finds that the discovery requests were properly served, and that
plaintiff failed to serve responses by the due date and thus has waived
objections.  Further, although not
required, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s counsel.

The
motions are thus GRANTED.  
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendant
request $1310 for each motion.  The Court
finds that $620 ($250/hr. x 2 hrs., $120 in filing fees) is a reasonable amount
to be awarded against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record in total for
both motions. 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Jose Gomez is ordered to
respond without objections to defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) within
twenty days. 
Plaintiff Jose Gomez is ordered (1)
to serve on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s
Request for Production of Documents (Set One) and (2) to produce all documents
and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to defendant’s request, within twenty days.  
The Court orders that plaintiff
Jose Gomez and plaintiff’s attorney of record, Jesse L. Halpern, Esq. (SBN
37962) pay $620 in sanctions to defendant, within 30 days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.