 Case Number:  23TRCV01123    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  B Questions regarding the Motion for a New Trial
“PLAINTIFFS WERE PREVENTED FROM HAVING A FAIR TRAL DUE TO
IRREGULARITIES IN THE PROCEEDINGS BY THE COURT AND DUE TO THE ORDER OF THIS
COURT”
“The Courts’ Dismissal of Joint Venture Liability and
Dismissal of the Corporate Defendants.”
“Since the case was filed, Plaintiffs maintained multiple
theories of liability against the Corporate Defendants, through joint venture
liability and individual liability.”
1.  Plaintiff
articulates the procedural history involving the questions raised by the Court
and the Court’s desire to obtain information from Plaintiff’s on the factual
and legal basis for imposing liability on defendants other than Driftwood – the
joint venture theory.
In what way was Plaintiff harmed by the Court having the
parties submit pre-trial materials on the legal and factual basis for claiming
that the other entities and person had liability under a joint venture theory?  Was the Plaintiff worse off than if the Court
had not done so and had merely heard the non-suit motion without the benefit of
the parties detailed advance submissions?
2.  “Based on the
Court’s ruling during the sidebar on May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs had a significant
portion of their case taken away during the middle of the evidence phase.”  Is Plaintiff referring to something other
than the evidence in support of the joint venture theory?  If so please be prepared to describe the portion
of the case that was “taken away.”
3.  Assuming that the
Plaintiff is correct and the Court should not have granted the Defendant’s
non-suit motion as to the liability of the other entities and Rechnitz on the
basis that there was a “joint venture” and assuming that the jury had found a
joint venture, what would the outcome have been with respect to the other
entities?  Would the liability of the
other entities be anything other than imposing joint and several liability for
the jury’s $118,000 verdict?
4.  If there were a
retrial on the joint venture issue, would it be limited to determining whether the
other entities are liable for the $118,000 verdict? What would be the basis for
allowing anything beyond that issue?
5.  What was the evidence
that supported the claim that CITRUS WELLNESS CENTRE, LLC., or RECHNITZ CITRUS,
GP. or SHLOMO RECHNITZ had direct liability to Plaintiffs?  The Motion does not discuss any evidence of
their direct liablity.
6.  As to Shlomo Rechnitz,
does his proposed testimony go to anything other than his potential joint venture
liability?  What was Plaintiff’s theory
of liability based on the representation that he would have testified that the “buck
stops with him?” 
7.  Assuming Rechnitz had
been permitted to testify to “the buck stops here” is there any basis for
imposing liability on him on a theory that enlarges increases the judgment in
excess of the jury’s $118,000 judgment? 
If so, how?
8.  “…the Court
changed its mind [regarding taking judicial notice of the Death Certificate] and
prevented Plaintiffs from introducing all evidence of Mr. Nantz’s death to the
jury, thereby materially affecting the trial and the verdict.”  What evidence, other than the death certificate,
did the Plaintiff seek to introduce that was not permitted?
9.  As to the Death
Certificate, what is the significance of the fact that the Court initially
ruled that it would take judicial notice of the death certificate, following by
the Court changing its decision on that issue? 

10.  “THE COURT MADE
AN ERROR DISCHARGING THE JURY AFTER POLLING WHEN IT WAS BROUGHT TO THE COURT’S
ATTENTION THAT THE JURY WAS HUNG ON THE ELDER ABUSE CAUSE OF ACTION.”
Did the Court instruct the jury that it was discharged PRIOR
to the time when Plaintiff’s counsel brought to the Court’s attention this
issue?  The Court recalls that it had
already given the concluding instruction DISCHARGED the jury before Plaintiff’s
counsel raised the issue.
11.  Health and Safety
Code § 1427(c) states:  “(c) This
presumption applies to any action against any long-term health care facility
which is filed by the state department pursuant to this chapter or Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 1250). In any other action against a longterm health
care facility, the court may apply the presumption when the interests of
justice requires.”
Does the Court not have discretion under Health and Safety Code
§ 1427(c) to not apply the presumption?
 
Questions regarding the Validity of the 998 Offer
12.  What is the
significance of CCP § 2017.310 “disfavoring” confidential settlements involving
Elder Abuse claims?
13.  Is Barella v.
Exchange Bank applicable to all types of causes of action involving confidentiality
provisions in settlements or is it limited to defamation actions?
14.  How do the
parties understand Barella v. Exchange Bank when read with CCP § 2017.310?
 
Questions regarding Motion for Attorneys Fees
15.  Plaintiffs argue
that the § 1430 claim entitling Plaintiffs to an award of attorneys fees (“understaffing”)
is so intertwined with the other claims that all attorney time should be
compensated.  What was Plaintiff required
to prove to prevail on the § 1430 claim? 
What additional proof was needed to prove any of the other claim?
16.  Would proof of a violation
of § 1430 establish any element of any of the other claims?