 Case Number:  24TRCV01906    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
WILLOW
  LIST, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01906




 
vs.


 


 
RULING
 




 
UNIFY
  FINANCIAL FEDERAL CREDIT UNION,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 9,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Unify Financial
Federal Credit Union 
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED and the case
is STAYED. 
BACKGROUND
            On June 5, 2024, plaintiff Willow
List filed a complaint against defendant Unify Financial Federal Credit Union
for (1) violation of Civil Code §2923.5, (2) violation of Civil Code §2924.9,
(3) wrongful foreclosure, and (4) unfair business practices, violation of Bus.
& Prof. Code §17200.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (b) Grounds exist for rescission of
the agreement. . . .”
“[W]hen a petition to compel
arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether
the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether
it is enforceable.  Because the existence
of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the
petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.  If the party opposing the
petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding
the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a),
(b))—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a
preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.”  Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th 394, 413.
Petitions to compel arbitration are
summary proceedings in which the court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence.  Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal. 4th 951, 972.  Unlike a
ruling on a motion for summary judgment, the Court is charged with resolving
any factually disputed issues unless there is no evidentiary support for the
claims of the party opposing the petition. 
Id. at 973.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Unify Financial Federal
Credit Union requests an order compelling plaintiff to binding arbitration and
to stay the proceeding.
            The complaint alleges that on August
30, 2013, plaintiff obtained a mortgage loan on the subject property at 22934
Nadine Cir. B, Torrance from defendant in the amount of $250,000, memorialized
by a Deed of Trust.  The maturity due
date is September 1, 2043.  The trustee
is T.D. Service Company.  Complaint, ¶9.  On June 2, 2023, a Notice of Delinquent
Assessment against the property was recorded. 
Id., ¶10.  On October 6, 2023, a
Notice of Default and Election to Sell Under a Deed of Trust was recorded.  Id., ¶11. 
On January 24, 2024, a Notice of Trustee’s Sale was recorded.  The sale date was set for February 27, 2024,
was continued to May 2, 2024, and the property was sold on that date.  Id., ¶12. 
Plaintiff was only working with the lender defendant.  In addition to the modification, plaintiff
listed her home so she could get her property value.  The agent was working with defendant to get
all the documents, and their agent insists he did just that.  Id., ¶13. 

            The complaint further alleges that
plaintiff would have qualified for the Cares Act.  She is not fit to move her stuff herself as
she is 69 years old and weights 82 pounds. 
Plaintiff submitted the documents for defendant to review, and to
discuss what was needed to move forward. 
Plaintiff received nothing in writing and no acknowledgement
letters.  Id., ¶14.  There was no SPOC.  They did try to get her to log in their
system as the RMA is located on their web page. 
Id., ¶15.  There was no 30-day
approval or denial.  The realtor was made
aware that the lender will not stop the date and that all the documents were
not received.  Id., ¶16.
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant asserts that there exists
an arbitration agreement between the parties. 
Defendant Credit Union explains that it is not a bank.  Rather it is a wholly member-owned,
not-for-profit cooperative, which provides account and loan services to its
members.  Defendant exists to serve its
members’ financial interests.  Jack
Jennings decl., ¶4.  Plaintiff became a
member of the Credit Union in 1987.  Since
joining, plaintiff has been an active member, having obtained a credit card and
many loans through the Credit Union. 
Jennings decl., ¶7.  On January
10, 2003, plaintiff signed a new Membership Application, agreeing to be subject
to the Credit Union’s Truth-in-Savings and Electronic Services Disclosure and
Agreement, including all amendments thereto. 
Jennings decl., ¶8, Exh. 2.  On
December 13, 2012, plaintiff executed a Membership Invitation/Signature Card,
agreeing that her member account would be governed by the Credit Union’s
Account Agreement.  Jennings decl., ¶9,
Exh. 3.  The Credit Union has updated the
Account Agreement on several occasions over the years.  In 2015, the Credit Union updated the Account
Agreement to include an Arbitration Agreement. 
Since 2015, the Credit Union has also updated the Arbitration
Agreement.  Jennings decl., ¶11, Exh.
5.  Plaintiff was provided with the full
text of the Arbitration Agreement when a copy of the Membership Booklet was
mailed to each member on August 1, 2018. 
Jennings decl., ¶13.
The Arbitration Agreement states,
in part (at para. 39):  “You and the
Credit Union agree that we shall attempt to informally settle any and all
disputes arising out of, affecting, or relating to your accounts, or the
products or services the Credit Union has provided, will provide or has offered
to provide to you, and/or any aspect of your relationship with the Credit Union
(hereafter referred to as the ‘Claims’).  If that cannot be done, then you agree that
any and all Claims that are threatened, made, filed or initiated after the
Effective Date (defined below) of this arbitration section, even if the Claims
arise out of, affect or relate to conduct that occurred prior to the Effective
Date, shall, at the election of either you or us, be resolved by binding
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) in
accordance with its applicable rules and procedures for consumer disputes (‘Rules’),
whether such Claims are in contract, tort, statute, or otherwise.”
            Defendant
argues that plaintiff accepted the Credit Union’s offer to arbitrate by failing
to opt out and continuing to use her account and thereby consenting to the
terms of the Arbitration Agreement. 
Jennings decl., ¶¶15-16.
The Court finds that defendant has
met its burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement.  
Scope
Defendant asserts that the
complaint raises claims relating to plaintiff’s account and relationship with
the Credit Union and thus the Arbitration Agreement encompasses plaintiff’s
dispute.
The Court finds that the broadly-worded
Arbitration Agreement (“any and all disputes arising out of, affecting, or
relating to your accounts, or the products or services the Credit Union has
provided, will provide or has offered to provide to you, and/or any aspect of
your relationship with the Credit Union”) covers plaintiff’s causes of action
as they arise out of her account, loan, and relationship with defendant.
Enforceability
Defendant argues that any claims
that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable are meritless.  
There is no opposition. 
The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.
            The case is STAYED.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.