  Case Number:  23STCV26006    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   April
24, 2024                                     
 
CASE NAME:           Mary Matthias, et al., v. State of
California, Department of Public Health, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV26006

 
DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendants Governor Gavin Newsom; Governor’s Office of Emergency
Services (OES); OES Director Nancy Ward; California Health and Human Services
Agency (HHA); HHA Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly; California Department of Public
Health (CDPH); CDPH Director Dr. Tomás Aragón; California Department of Health
Care Services (DHCS); DHCS Director Michelle Baass; and Attorney General Rob
Bonta
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Mary
Matthias, Chris Lugatiman, Toni Johnson, and A Voice for Choice, Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: Sustain demurrer without leave to amend.
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Demurrer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiffs Mary
Matthias, Chris Lugatiman, Toni Johnson, and A Voice for Choice, Inc. commenced
this action against Defendants Governor Gavin Newsom; Governor’s Office of Emergency
Services (OES); OES Director Nancy Ward; California Health and Human Services
Agency (HHA); HHA Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly; California Department of Public
Health (CDPH); CDPH Director Dr. Tomás Aragón; California Department of Health
Care Services (DHCS); DHCS Director Michelle Baass; and Attorney General Rob Bonta
for declaratory and injunctive relief for violations of California
Constitution, Article I, § I (right to pursue and obtain safety) and violation
of California Health and Safety Code § 111550. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants violated California Health and Safety Code § 111550 which bars
distribution of drugs that have not received FDA approval and licensure by
distributing the COVID-19 vaccine that is authorized for emergency use. 
 
On January 17, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer to the Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD:
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994; Weil & Brown, Civ.
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶7:8. “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70). The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.  
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice of Exhibits 1-19 is DENIED. (Evid. Code § 452(c).) As such, Plaintiffs’
objections are moot. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Defendants
demur on the grounds that there is no private right of action for violation of California
Constitution, Article I, § I or Health and Safety Code § 111550, Plaintiffs
lack standing and Defendants have not violated Section 111550 as a matter of
law. Plaintiffs contend that they are actually proceeding under the Federal
Sherman Food, Drug and Cosmetics Laws that do authorize a private cause of
action, each Plaintiff has suffered concrete harm and therefore has standing
and the Court should not evaluate the strengths of the case at this stage.
 
Defendants’
position is well taken. Health and Safety Code § 111550 does not expressly
create a private right of action. As a general rule, when a statute does not
explicitly provide an enforceable right, courts will only imply such a right in
circumstances where the legislature actually intended to create a private right
of action to enforce a statute. (See
Moradi–Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287.) While
Plaintiffs’ opposition attacks Defendants’ arguments, Plaintiffs have not
affirmatively set forth the intent of the legislature such that the Court can
find an implied private right of action.[1]
 
Leave to amend: 
 
Leave to amend should be liberally
granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the
defect.  (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.) The Plaintiff has the burden of
demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can
be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his
complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) Here, Plaintiff has not offered any explanation on how he could cure
the defect. Moreover, it does not appear to the Court that there is any
way Plaintiff can remedy the defects identified herein. 
 
Therefore, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.  
 
CONCLUSION:
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court decides the pending motion as follows:
 
Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend
 
Moving party to give notice.

 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:             April 24, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 


