  Case Number:  19SMCV00329    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Dutton, et
al., v. Domanovski, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00329
MOTION:                  Demurrer
and Motion to Strike the Answer to Third Amended Complaint
HEARING DATE:   10/3/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
In addition to denials, the answer should contain any and all
affirmative defenses or objections to the complaint that defendant may have,
and that would otherwise not be in issue under a simple denial. Such
defenses or objections are “new matter.” (CCP § 431.30(b).) Generally, a
defendant bears the burden of proving “new matter” and, as such, must be
specifically pleaded in the answer. (California Academy of Sciences v.
County of Fresno (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442.) “The phrase ‘new
matter’ refers to something relied on by a defendant which is not put in issue
by the plaintiff.” (Walsh v. West Valley Mission Community College
District (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1546.) Where the answer sets
forth facts showing some essential allegation of the complaint is not true,
such facts are not new matter but are denials. (Ibid.) 
 
The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather than
evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is required as in pleading a
complaint. The answer must aver facts as carefully and with as much detail
as the facts which constitute the cause of action and which are alleged in the
complaint. (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [defenses must be pleaded
in the nature of “yes, the allegations [of the complaint] are true, but . .
.”].) The various affirmative defenses must be separately stated and must refer
to the causes of action to which they relate “in a manner by which they may be
intelligently distinguished.” (CCP § 431.30(g).) 
 
The allegations of the pleading demurred to must be
regarded as true.  (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226
Cal.App.2d 725, 730.) All that is necessary against a demurrer is that,
upon consideration of all of the facts stated, it appears that the party whose pleading
is attacked by such a demurrer is entitled to any relief at the hands of the
court against his adversary. (Id. at 733.)  When considering a
demurrer to answer, the “determination of the sufficiency of the answer
requires an examination of the complaint because its adequacy is with reference
to the complaint it purports to answer.”  (Ibid.)  “[T]he
demurrer to the answer admits all issuable facts pleaded therein and eliminates
all allegations of the complaint denied by the answer.”  (Ibid.) 
      
            “Liberality
in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any
defect has not been given.” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny
leave to amend where there is any reasonable possibility that plaintiff can
state a good cause of action. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349.) The burden is on pleader to show in what manner they can
amend the pleading, and how that amendment will change the
legal effect of the pleading. (Id.)       
 
Analysis
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
Third Affirmative Defense – Unclean Hands
 
“The doctrine of unclean hands
requires unconscionable, bad faith, or inequitable conduct by the plaintiff in
connection with the matter in controversy.” (Mendoza v. Ruesga (2008) 169
Cal.App.4th 270, 279.) “Unclean hands applies when it would be inequitable to
provide the plaintiff any relief, and provides a complete defense to both legal
and equitable causes of action.” (Id.) Whether the unclean hands doctrine
applies depends on whether the unclean conduct directly relates to the
transaction upon which the complaint is made, i.e., the subject matter
involved. (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton
LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 681.)  “[T]here must be a direct relationship between
the misconduct and the claimed injuries . . . so that it would be inequitable
to grant [the requested] relief.” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young &
Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 820, 846.) The misconduct must “prejudicially
affect the rights of the person against whom the relief is sought so that it
would be inequitable to grant such relief.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendants plead that:
 
Plaintiffs are guilty of wrongful
conduct in connection with the transaction or subject matter of this action:
Plaintiffs provided Marinescu with funds for the purpose of obtaining a “proof
of funds” letter from Wells Fargo Bank on the condition that once the letter
was issued, Marinescu would return the funds to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs knew or
should have known that once the funds were returned to them, Marinescu would
not have sufficient funds to proceed with the subject transaction and that the
letter would not have been issued if it was known that the funds would be
returned as soon as the letter was obtained.
 
(Ans. at 2.)
 
This allegation is sufficient for
pleading purposes.  As to the judgment in
the related matter, SC127259, summary adjudication was entered against
defendant Marinescu in that matter based largely on (1) the Court deeming admitted
Plaintiff’s request for admissions against Marinescu due to her discovery violations,
and (2) Marinescu’s failure to provide a responsive separate statement to the
motion.  Plaintiff’s contention that this
judgment amounts to issue preclusion is flawed.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Fourth Affirmative Defense - Illegality
 
Defendants plead:
 
The basis for Plaintiffs’ claim is the
purported agreement they made with Marinescu by which they allegedly furnished
her with funds in order for her to obtain the “proof of funds” letter on the
condition she would return the funds to them once the letter was issued.
Because the agreement was made to carry out a fraud on Wells Fargo Bank, the
agreement was illegal and Plaintiffs cannot obtain relief for a claim that
arises from that illegal agreement.
 
(Ans. at 3.)
 
Defendant has pled sufficient facts
to support a defense of illegality.  Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Fifth Affirmative Defense - Failure to Mitigate
 
A plaintiff who suffers damage as a
result of either a breach of contract or a tort has a duty to take reasonable
steps to mitigate those damages and will not be able to recover for any losses
that could have been thus avoided. (Shaffer v. Debbas (1993) 17
Cal.App.4th 33, 41.) “Generally, ‘[a] person injured by the wrongful act of
another is bound to reasonable care and diligence to avoid loss or minimize the
resulting damages and cannot recover for losses which might have been prevented
by reasonable efforts and expenditures on his part.” (Hunter v. Croysdill
(1959) 169 Cal.App.2d 307, 318.) This rule of mitigation of damages comes into
play when the event producing injury or damage has already occurred and it then
has become the obligation of the injured or damaged party to avoid continuing
or enhanced damages through reasonable efforts. (Valle de Oro Bank v. Gamboa
(1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 1686, 1691.)
 
Defendants allege:
 
Plaintiffs failed to mitigate their
purported damages in that they took no action to notify Cohen that funds he may
receive from Marinescu were part of the funds they provided to Marinescu and
which they allege she refused to return to them. Plaintiffs thus failed to take
reasonable steps to avoid the damages, if any, they allege to have suffered.
 
(Ans. at 3.)
 
Defendants believe that Plaintiffs
should have prevented their damages by taking pre-emptive action to prevent the
harm, rather than taking mitigating action after the harm was done. This
allegation does not support a mitigation defense, since such pre-emptive action
would not be reasonable steps to mitigate damages. Further facts are
required.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to this defense.
 
Sixth Affirmative Defense - Acts of Third Parties
 
Defendants allege:
 
Plaintiffs’ alleged losses, if any,
were proximately caused by their own wrongful conduct or omissions, or by the
acts, conduct or omissions of third parties as to whom these answering
defendants had and have no control, i.e., the acts and/or omissions of
Plaintiffs and of any or all other defendants as alleged in the third amended
complaint was the cause of Plaintiffs’ damages, if any, for which these
answering defendants cannot be held responsible.
 
(Ans. at 3.)
 
This allegation, when combined with
the allegations of the TAC, are sufficient for pleading purposes.  Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Seventh Affirmative Defense - Claim Barred by Probate
Code § 9351
 
Prob. Code § 9351 states “An action
may not be commenced against a decedent's personal representative on a cause of
action against the decedent unless a claim is first filed as provided in this
part and the claim is rejected in whole or in part.”
 
Defendants plead:
 
Plaintiffs[] failed to file this
action upon a rejected creditor’s claim and, therefore, they are barred from
pursuing any recovery by Probate Code Section 9351 which provides the exclusive
means by which an action may be commenced against a decedent’s estate.
 
(Ans. at 3.)
 
Judicially noticeable documents
show that the relevant creditor’s claim(s) were rejected prior to the filing of
the third amended complaint (TAC). (RJN no. 5-8.) Defendants otherwise do not
plead facts supporting this defense.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to this defense.
 
Motion to Strike – Statute of Limitations
 
Plaintiffs do not explain why section
338(d) would not apply to the fraud cause of action as a matter of law.
Therefore, the motion is DENIED as to this portion.
 
Defendants do not plead facts
supporting a statute of limitations defense under Code of Civil Procedure section
366.2. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED without leave as to “and Code of Civil
Procedure §366.2.” (Ans. at 2:10.)
 
MTS - Agent Immunity
 
Plaintiffs do not explain why the
agent immunity rule would not apply. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as to
this portion.
 
MTS – Illegality
 
            Issue or
claim preclusion does not apply to this matter with respect to Defendant.  Thus, the motion is DENIED based upon illegality.
 
MTS – Reservation of Rights
 
Plaintiffs cite no authority which
shows that a reservation of rights would be improper or false. Accordingly, the
motion is DENIED. 
 
MTS – Attorney Fees
 
Plaintiffs do not adequately
explain why it would be false or improper for Defendants to seek attorneys’
fees per Probate Code section 9354 (c). Plaintiffs reason that Defendants admit
that Plaintiffs have not filed creditors’ claims. Yet, judicially noticeable
documents show that Plaintiffs did file creditors' claims. Accordingly, the
motion is DENIED.
 
Defendant has ten days to file an
amended answer consistent with this order.