 Case Number:  22SMCV02820    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Vardi v. Beischl,
et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02820
MOTION:                  Demurrer
to the Cross-Complaint 
HEARING DATE:   10/3/2023
Legal
Standard
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)

 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Cross-Defendant Doron Vardi demurs
to the sole cause of action for gender violence pursuant to Civil Code section
51.9 alleged by Cross-Complainant Adriana Beischl. In his demurrer, Vardi
argues that Beischl is not a protected party under Section 51.9, Beischl is not
a professional under Section 51.9, and Beischl fails to allege pervasive or
severe harassment. 
 
A defendant is liable for sexual
harassment under Civil Code section 51.9 when (1) “[t]here is a business,
service, or professional relationship between the plaintiff and defendant”; (2)
the defendant made unwelcome and pervasive or severe sexual advances,
solicitations, sexual requests, demands for sexual compliance by the plaintiff,
or engaged in other conduct of a sexual or hostile nature based on gender; and
(3) as a result, the plaintiff suffered or will suffer economic loss or
disadvantage or personal injury. (Civ. Code, § 51.9(a).) The business, service,
or professional relationship may exist between the plaintiff and a person
including, but not limited to, physician, psychotherapist, dentist, attorney,
social worker, real estate agent, real estate appraiser, investor, accountant,
banker, trust officer, financial planner loan officer, collection service,
contractor, escrow loan officer, executor, trustee, administrator, landlord,
property manager, teacher, elected official, lobbyist, director, or producer,
or in a “relationship that is a substantially similar to any of the above.”
(Civ. Code, § 51.9(a)(1).)
 
Qualifying Relationship
 
Cross-Defendant argues that the pled facts
do not establish a qualifying relationship between himself and
Cross-Complainant which would support liability under Civil Code section 51.9.
Cross-Defendant points out that he is the client in this situation, and not a
professional as defined by the statute. Cross-Defendant also argues that
Beischl also is not a professional, because she is not a licensed contractor. Under
the plain construction of the statutory language, and under the cited case law,
the Court concurs that the defendant needs fall into the enumerated
professions to be potentially liable under Section 51.9. 
 
The well-established rules of statutory
construction always begins “‘with the statutory language, which is usually the
most reliable indicator of legislative intent.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009)
46 Cal.4th 1035, 1045–1046 [analyzing the plain language and statutory history
of a previous version of § 51.9], citing Miklosy v. Regents of University of
California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 888.) Ordinarily, if that language is
susceptible of only one meaning, “ ‘we presume the Legislature meant what it
said, and the plain meaning of the statute controls.’ ” (Ibid.) When
statutory language is reasonably subject to more than one interpretation,
however, courts may consider extrinsic aids, such as legislative history, to
confirm the plain meaning of the statute. (Ibid.)
 
As to the relationship, Civil Code section
51.9 “covers a wide variety of business relationships outside the workplace.” (Hughes,
supra, 46 Cal.4th at 1048.) Section 51.9(a)(1) provides that the business relationship
must be “between a plaintiff and a person, including, but not
limited to, any of the following persons . . ..” (Emphasis added.) Under
this language, the legislature makes it clear that the defendant must be the professional
“person.” In other words, a plaintiff’s status as a professional is irrelevant
and the focus remains on the other “person,” i.e., the defendant. There is no
ambiguity in these definitions. As such, no further inquiry is required for the
section’s plain meaning on this point.  
 
Furthermore, caselaw interpreting the
relationship requirements under Section 51.9 looks to the defendant’s
status as a qualifying professional under the statute. (Judd v. Weinstein
(9th Cir. 2020) 967 F.3d 952, 957; see Hughes v. Pair, (2009) 46 Cal.
4th 1035, 1044 [Cal. Supreme Court observed that § 51.9 was meant to “address
‘relationships between providers of services and their clients . . .. The
statute sets out a nonexclusive list of such providers[.]’”]; see also Civ.
Code § 51.9(a)(1)(H) [later amended to include “Director or producer” as a
qualifying person].) In Judd v. Weinstein, the court focused on the business
relationship between film producer, Harvey Weinstein, and actress, Ashley Judd.
The Court focused on defendant Weinstein’s professional status, finding that
the relationship was “substantially similar” to examples enumerated in Section
51.9. “It is clear that each of the enumerated examples consists of a
relationship where an inherent power imbalance such that, by virtue of his or
her ‘business, service, or professional’ position, one party is uniquely
situated to exercise coercion or leverage over the other.” (Judd, supra,
967 F.3d at 957-958; citing C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169
Cal. App. 4th 1094, 1109.) “For example, teachers can exercise coercive power
over their students because they control their students’ grades. Similarly,
landlords can exercise coercive power over their tenants because they control
access to the tenant’s security depositions, and at least to some extent, access
to the premises.” (Ibid.) The court found that Weinstein had such a relationship
with Judd, as he was uniquely situated to exercise coercion or leverage over Judd,
a young actor at the beginning of her career, by virtue of his professional
position and influence as a top producer in Hollywood. (Ibid.) 
 
As an alleged client of a
construction manager, Cross-Defendant does not easily fit into any of the
enumerated categories. (CC ¶¶ 1-2, 6-7.) The Cross-Complaint does not allege
that he is a physician, psychotherapist, dentist, attorney, social worker, real
estate agent, real estate appraiser, investor, accountant, banker, trust
officer, financial planner loan officer, collection servicer, building
contractor, escrow loan officer, executor, trustee, administrator of an estate,
landlord, property manager, teacher, elected official, lobbyist, director, or
producer. Thus, the only category that he may be a part of is the catchall
“relationship that is substantial similar to any of the above.” (Civ. Code §
51.9(a)(1)(I).) 
 
The Court is unaware of any
authorities which would hold that a client has inherent, coercive power over a
construction manager. Indeed, unlike teachers that have coercive power over
their students’ grades, or landlords that can exercise coercive power over their
tenant's security deposits and access to the premises, a client generally can only
direct their manager as a principal pursuant to a general principal-agent
relationship. Thus, the Court does not believe that such a relationship could
exist in this context. That said, “each inquiry into
whether a particular relationship falls within the scope of Section 51.9 must
be informed by the specific facts of that case.” (Id. at 958, citing Tenet
Healthcare, supra, 169 Cal. App. 4th at 1106 [“Depending on the facts, a
certified nurse assistant can have a service or professional relationship with
a patient, as can other hospital staff”].) To allege a “substantially similar” relationship under Section
51.9, a complainant must allege facts which support an inherent power imbalance
where one party is uniquely situated to exercise coercion or leverage over the
other. (Id.) Accordingly, Beischl could plead facts which
show that the parties’ specific business relationship had an inherent power imbalance such that, by
virtue of Vardi’s ‘business, service, or professional’ position, he was uniquely
situated to exercise coercion or leverage over Beischl.
 
While that potential exists, in
this version of the cross-complaint, Beischl fails to allege that Vardi had an inherent
power imbalance by virtue of his status as her client, such that he was uniquely
situated to exercise coercion or leverage over her. Vardi hired Beischl
to perform construction management services, such as developing bidders,
establishing building schedules, and overseeing the work of the general
contractor, on his behalf. (CC ¶¶ 1-2, 6.) Beischl alleges that she works in a
male dominated business, where most contractors, workers, and clients are male.
(CC ¶ 1.) Beischl’s status as a female in this male dominated field makes her a
target for harassment, bullying and intimidation based on her sex. (CC ¶ 1.)
However, the fact that the field is male dominated does not describe any
inherent power imbalance between a construction manager-client relationship. This
fact also does not establish that Vardi, as a male client, would be uniquely
situated to exercise coercion or leverage over Beischl. Beischl argues
that Vardi is physically larger than her. However, this too does not state
anything about the power imbalance of a construction manager-client
relationship. 
 
In opposition, Beischl claims that
her small business was dependent on cash flow from ongoing projects and could
not afford to hold large client receivables. As such, Beischl could not easily
terminate the relationship because she was already months into the project and
was owed a large sum of money that she knew would be incredibly difficult to
get if she quit the project. The alleged facts do not support this conclusion.
First, it is unalleged that Beischl’s small business was dependent on the cash
flow from the subject project. Second, it is unalleged that it would be
incredibly difficult to obtain the owed sum if she quit. Therefore, this
assertion cannot be considered on the merits of the demurrer. At best, Beischl
alleges that Vardi, at one point, owed nearly $20,000 for work already done and
that Beischl was unable to easily terminate the relationship with Vardi because
the construction work she was managing was in progress for several months. (CC ¶¶
14, 21.) Beischl does not allege that this amount owed would create unique
circumstances where Vardi could reasonably coerce or leverage an advantage over Beischl. In
fact, this fact might weigh against Vardi having professional leverage against
Beischl. For example, Beischl does not allege that her business
was so dependent on receiving this money that Vardi had leverage over her. As
such, further facts are required to bring Defendant into the catchall
provision. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Pervasive or severe conduct
 
Cross-Defendant also argues that
while his alleged actions were rude, pushy and potentially offensive, they were
not severe or pervasive.  “Subdivision
(a)(2) of Civil Code section 51.9 allows liability for instances of sexually
harassing conduct that qualify as either ‘pervasive or severe.’” (Hughes,
supra, 46 Cal.4th at 1046.) To be “pervasive” within the meaning of
the statute, the conduct must be more than a few isolated incidents and so
egregious as to alter the conditions of the underlying professional
relationship. (Id. at 1048.) An isolated incident may be “severe” when
it consists of a physical assault or the threat thereof. (Id. at 1049.)
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges multiple
instances of allegedly harassing conduct based on Beischl’s gender. One
instance involved Vardi physically confronting Beischl alone at his home,
shouting inches away from her face and looming over her in an intimidating
manner, causing Beischl to fear for her safety and quickly leave the premises.
(CC ¶ 14.) Further, there are allegations that Vardi also summoned Beischl to
his home at odd, off business hours times to angrily complain about the
project, and sent her “incessant” angry and abusive text messages and phone
calls at all hours of the day when Beischl was not available. (CC ¶¶ 9-17.) Read
liberally, this alleges harassing conduct on more than a “few” isolated
incidents. The Cross-Complaint supports a conclusion that these acts of
harassment altered
the conditions of the underlying professional relationship, since Vardi successfully
browbeat Beischl into giving monetary concessions on her work. (CC ¶¶ 2, 16.)
As such, the Cross-Complaint alleges facts which support the element of
pervasive or severe conduct for pleading purposes.
Beischl may file an amended
cross-complaint within 10 days.