 Case Number:  19SMCV00603    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Snukal, et
al., v. 926 Broadway LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00603
MOTION:                  Motion
for New Trial; Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
HEARING DATE:   10/2/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
New
Trial
 
“A motion for new trial is a creature
of statute; . . .” (Neal v.
Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.) A
movant must satisfy CCP sections 657 and 659. Under CCP section 657, a motion
for new trial may be granted if there is any:
 
[¶] 1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. [¶] 2.
Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been
induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of
chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the
jurors. [¶] 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against. [¶] 4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial. [¶] 5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
[¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision,
or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law, occurring
at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) 

 
When ruling on an application for a
new trial, the court sits as an independent trier of fact. (Lane v. Hughes Aircraft Co.
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 405, 412.) The court, therefore, has broad discretion to
order new trials, limited only by the obligation to state its reasons for
granting a new trial and the existence of substantial evidence in the record to
support those reasons. (Ibid.)
In assessing the need for a new trial, the court must rely on its view of the
overall record, taking into account such factors, among others, as the nature
and seriousness of the alleged misconduct, the general atmosphere, including
the judge’s control, of the trial, the likelihood of prejudicing the jury, and
the efficacy of objection or admonition under all the circumstances. (Dominguez v. Pantalone (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 201, 211.)
 
The party intending to move for a
new trial must file with the clerk and serve upon each adverse party a notice
of his intention to move for a new trial, designating the grounds upon which
the motion will be made and whether the same will be made upon affidavits or
the minutes of the court or both, either (1) “after a decision is rendered and
before the entry of judgment”; (2) “within 15 days of the date of mailing
notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court . . . , or service upon
him or her by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180
days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest”; or (3) if another
party files the first motion for new trial, “each other party shall have 15
days after the service of that notice upon him or her to file and serve a
notice of intention to move for a new trial.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 659.) These time limits are jurisdictional
and cannot extended or waived by stipulation nor court order. (Marriage of Herr (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1469 [while trial judge characterized order as one “granting
reconsideration,” ruling effectively granted new trial and was untimely].)
 
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict (JNOV)
 
“The purpose of a motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict is not to afford a review of the jury’s
deliberation but to prevent a miscarriage of justice in those cases where the
verdict rendered is without foundation.” 
(Sukoff v. Lemkin (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 740, 743.)  “A motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict may be granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the
light most favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no
substantial evidence in support.”  (Sweatman
v. Department of Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68.)  “[G]iven the constitutional right to jury
trial and a policy of judicial economy against willy-nilly disregarding juries’
hard work . . . the basic rules regarding these motions are predictably
strict.”  (Fountain Valley Chateau
Blanc Homeowner’s Association v. Department of Veterans Affairs (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 743, 750.)  Conflicts in the
evidence are resolved against the moving party and all reasonable inferences to
be drawn from the evidence are drawn against the moving party.  (Id.) 
“The court may not weigh evidence, draw inferences contrary to the
verdict, or assess the credibility of witnesses. The court must deny the motion
if there is any substantial evidence to support the verdict.” (Begnal v.
Canfield & Associates, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 66, 72.)
 
Analysis
 
On May 22, 2023, the Court held a jury
trial on this matter. On June 1, 2023, and after the close of evidence, but
prior to arguments of counsel, the Court struck Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of
action for reformation under its equitable powers. Counsel proceeded with
closing arguments. The jury was then instructed and retired to consider a
verdict on each of the parties’ respective claims. After deliberation, on June
2, 2023, the jury returned to the Court with its special verdict on Plaintiffs’
complaint finding in favor of Plaintiffs and awarding $1.5 million dollars in
damages on each cause of action, including fraud, breach of contract, breach of
implied warranty and constructive eviction. The jury also returned with its
special verdict on Defendant 926 Broadway, LLC’s Cross-Complaint, finding no
liability on behalf of Plaintiffs. Phase two of the bifurcated matter commenced
immediately thereafter. After evidence and arguments from counsel, the jury was
further instructed and retired to consider a verdict on punitive damages. After
deliberation, the jury returned to the Court with a special verdict on punitive
damages, granting $250,000 in punitive damages against Defendants and for
Plaintiffs. 
 
The Court entered judgment on July
10, 2023. Plaintiffs filed a notice of entry of judgment on August 7, 2023. On
August 22, 2023, Defendants timely noticed their intent to move for new trial
and filed the instant motion for JNOV.  The
motion presents overlapping issues regarding Plaintiffs’ damages and standing.
Thus, the Court will address the two motions together, issue-by-issue.
 
Individual Plaintiffs Standing under Lease and for Fraud
 
Defendants claim that the damages
awarded to the individual Plaintiffs are improper in light of the evidence that
Plaintiff TCP is the only damaged party. Defendants assert that TCP was formed after
the Lease in question was executed, and thus could not be a party to the lease.
Defendants reason that Plaintiffs suffered no damages as a result of the breach
of the Lease or fraud regarding the Lease, since there is only evidence of TCP's
damages through its financial statements, losses and unreimbursed investments
into the failed restaurant. Defendants further note that Plaintiffs sought to
reform the contract to include TCP, but the Court rejected such a claim.
 
Examining the entirety of the
record, substantial evidence supported the jury’s compensatory damages verdict
to the individual plaintiffs. The LLC entity was created on Plaintiffs’ behalf
solely for the purpose of investing in, and running, the restaurant. (Muro
Decl., Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 5.) Daniel Snukal testified that his father,
Plaintiff Robert Snukal, personally financed and paid for the buildout of the
restaurant. (Id., Ex. 3, RT Day 3, at 58:8-22.) The documentary evidence showed
wire transfers from Plaintiff Robert Snukal 
and credit card statements in Daniel Snukal’s name as well as TCP. (Id.,
Exs. 336-1, 338-1.) The restaurant receipts are in the name of Tacos Punta
Cabras, the restaurant expressly identified in the lease, and which is the
d/b/a of Plaintiff TCP. (See Exs. 16, 341-343.) Furthermore, the individual
plaintiffs testified to paying rent, buildout and lease expenses, and other
out-of-pocket costs. For example, the individual plaintiffs testified to paying
rent of approximately $12,950, CAM fees, a security deposit, and for plumbing.
(Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 20, 34, 59, 100.) Mr. Snukal testified about losing his
investment into the location, “approximately a million dollars” on top of the
future value of the business. (Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 144.) 
 
Defendants also argue that where
the damage is to the LLC, only the LLC may recover. (PacLink Communications
Intern., Inc. v. Super. Ct. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 958, 964.) Unlike the
individual plaintiffs in PacLink, the testimony above demonstrates that
the Plaintiffs in this action suffered individualized damages themselves, not
just a de-valuation of the LLC’s assets.
 
Defendants further assert that TCP
cannot possibly establish the essential element of reliance because a corporate
entity that does not actually exist cannot rely upon an alleged
misrepresentation. On this same reasoning, Defendants argue that they could not
owe TCP any duty under the lease. However, Defendants ignore evidence that TCP was
created solely to own and operate the restaurant, and that it was created before
the lease was negotiated and signed. While Mr. Daniel Snukal initially
testified that he had not formed the LLC prior to signing the lease, he
corrected his testimony the following day and testified that the LLC was
actually formed on January 30, 2017, which was weeks before the lease was
signed in late February. (Muro Decl., Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 176:1-4; Ex. 3, RT
Day 3, at 11:16-20; Ex. 4, RT Day 4, at 15:6-10, 70:13-71:16.) The commercial
space leased to Plaintiffs would be used for a “Mexican restaurant and for no
other purpose,” and that the agreed-upon trade name was “Tacos Punta Cabras,”
which is the LLC’s trade name. (Id., Ex. 16.) While the lease was being
negotiated, Daniel Snukal sent a letter of intent expressing that the
newly-formed LLC should be the tenant. (Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 5:14-6:5.) Prior to
signing, he requested that the landlord change the tenant to the newly formed
LLC. (Id., at 18:22-27.) Thus, the jury could reasonably believe that TCP was
formed at the time of the misrepresentations, that Defendants knew that TCP
existed and would be a tenant under the lease, that TCP was a third-party
beneficiary under the lease, and TCP relied on Defendants’ misrepresentations.
The jury could further conclude that Plaintiffs were deceived into forming and
funding TCP in the first place to operate the restaurant in a commercial space
that Defendants misrepresented was fit for that purpose.
 
Therefore, substantial evidence
supports the jury’s verdict, and the totality of the record does not show that
the awarded damages are barred as a matter of law. 
 
Lost Profits
 
Defendants argue that the “lost
profits” were based entirely on the speculative profit projections by Daniel
Snukal. Defendants contend that the evidence of these lost profits should have
been excluded under Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v. University of Southern
California (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 773-775.  “[U]nder¿Evidence Code section 801, the trial
court acts as a gatekeeper to exclude speculative or irrelevant expert opinion.
As we recently explained, ‘[T]he expert's opinion may not be based ‘on
assumptions of fact without evidentiary support [citation], or on speculative
or conjectural factors.... [¶] Exclusion of expert opinions that rest on guess,
surmise or conjecture [citation] is an inherent corollary to the foundational
predicate for admission of the expert testimony: will the testimony assist the trier
of fact to evaluate the issues it must decide?’”  (Sargon, supra, 55 Cal.4th at 770.) 
 

“But courts must also be cautious
in excluding expert testimony. The trial court's gatekeeping role does not
involve choosing between competing expert opinions. The high court warned that
the gatekeeper's focus ‘must be solely on principles and methodology, not on
the conclusions that they generate.’ …. [¶] The trial court's preliminary
determination whether the expert opinion is founded on sound logic is not a
decision on its persuasiveness. The court must not weigh an opinion's probative
value or substitute its own opinion for the expert's opinion. Rather, the court
must simply determine whether the matter relied on can provide a reasonable
basis for the opinion or whether that opinion is based on a leap of logic or
conjecture. The court does not resolve scientific controversies.¿ Rather, it
conducts a ‘circumscribed inquiry’ to ‘determine whether, as a matter of logic,
the studies and other information cited by experts adequately support the
conclusion that the expert's general theory or technique is valid.’ …. The goal
of trial court gatekeeping is simply to exclude ‘clearly invalid and
unreliable’ expert opinion.”  (Sargon,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at 772.)
 
“[T]he lost profit inquiry is
always speculative to some degree. Inevitably, there will always be an element
of uncertainty.” (Sargon, supra, 55 Cal.4th at 774.) Nonetheless, “
‘[w]here the fact of damage is certain, the amount of damages need not be
calculated with absolute certainty. [Citations.] The law requires only that
some reasonable basis of computation of damages be used, and the damages may be
computed even if the result reached is an approximation. [Citation.] This is
especially true where … it is the wrongful acts of the defendant that have
created the difficulty in proving the amount of loss of profits [citation] or
where it is the wrongful acts of the defendant that have caused the other party
to not realize a profit to which that party is entitled.’ ” (Id. at
774-75.)
 
In Sargon, a small dental
implant company with net profits of $101,000 in 1998 claimed that “but for the
university's breach of the contract, the company would have become a worldwide
leader in the¿dental implant¿industry and made many millions of dollars a year
in profit.”  (Sargon, supra at
753.) The trial court “acted within its discretion when it excluded opinion
testimony that the company would have become extraordinarily successful
had the university completed the clinical testing.” (Id., emphasis added.)
Thus, the Court’s excluded the lost profits evidence based upon specific
deficiencies and unsubstantiated assumptions in the expert’s lost profits
calculations. (Id. at 753-761, 775-781.) 
            
First, the Court notes that the
damages awarded by the jury does not distinguish between the lost profits and
other damages claimed. Plaintiffs’ economist, Ms. Sebold, noted several
“categories” of damages including lost profits, construction costs, and
capitalized costs. (Muro Decl., Ex. 6, RT Day 6, at 40:7-17.) The “construction
costs were $1,030,639” and the capitalized/pre-opening costs were “$817,685.”
(Id., at 42:26-28.) The amount of these costs was supported by QuickBooks
reports, bank statements, American Express statements, and a construction cost
report. (Ex. 6, RT Day 6, at 66:9-20; Exs. 336, 337, 338, 340, 341, 342 343.) These
were not future lost profits, but rather “construction costs and other out of pocket
costs and preopening costs.” (Id., at 42:15-18.) Thus, the jury’s $1.5 million
award does not necessarily include lost profits. 
 
Second, the record provides
sufficiently reliable methodology, grounded in the specific finances of TCP. In
totality, the record does not suggest that the valuation of lost profits was unduly
speculative. Ms. Sebold testified that she used Daniel Snukal’s projections,
which were put together prior to the litigation in or around 2017 based on Mr.
Snukal’s extensive restaurant experience as a “starting point.” (Muro Decl., Ex.
6, RT Day 6, at 46:2-13.) Ms. Sebold explained that she had to adjust the
information because those projections were based on the information available
in 2017 and needed to be updated. (Id., at 46:17-47:25.) This included
accounting for increased wages in Santa Monica as well as COVID and PPP loans.
(Id., at 55:23-56:5.) She then testified that she “had several conversations
with” Josiah Citrin and relied on “his opinion as a restauranter in the Santa
Monica area as to whether the [] projections were reasonable” in reaching her
opinion. (Ex. 6, RT Day 6, at 47:13-48:12, 74:8-75:1.)
 
Citrin, Plaintiffs’ restaurant
industry expert, testified that restaurant projections are often done for
inclusion in business plans or to give to investors or landlords, and are
usually composed of a “home run,” mid, and low returns. (Ex. 6, RT Day 6, at
123:1-20.) The projections he reviewed were the “style of document that’s
prepared by a restaurant prior to opening.” (Ex. 6, RT Day 6, at 127:16-21.) He
testified that he was familiar with Tacos Punta Cabras and knew it on reputation,
that he was familiar with the type of food served, and the restaurant industry
in Santa Monica. (Id., at 125:15-127:7.) Mr. Citrin examined the projections
“line-by-line” and reviewed them based on his knowledge of the restaurant
industry and Santa Monica market. (Id., at 127:24-128:8.) He concluded that the
projections, particularly the low-end projection used as a starting point by
Ms. Sebold, was “very reasonable.” (Id., at 128:3-130:19.) 
 
Lastly, the Court also has already
rejected Defendants’ lost profits arguments. The Court stands by its previous
ruling on this evidentiary issue.  Therefore,
substantial evidence supports the jury’s verdict, and the totality of the
record does not show that any lost profits awarded are barred as a matter of
law. 
 
Leaks and Rats
 
Defendants argue that it was
improper for the Court to admit evidence of rats and leaks that affected other
units, rather than Plaintiffs’ specific unit. Defendants liken this evidence to
evidence of other, unrelated lawsuits. (See Lowenthal v. Mortimer (1954)
125 Cal.App.2d 636.) However, such evidence is not akin to unrelated lawsuits.
These facts were directly relevant to the case at hand, including the condition
of the Premises and common areas under Plaintiffs’ lease. These issues could be
seen as material to Plaintiffs’ lease, even if Plaintiffs’ precise unit did not
suffer from rat infestations or water leaks. In any event, Defendants’ argument
is insufficient for a new trial. Even if it was true that this evidence was
irrelevant, Defendants do not show any prejudice from this testimony. If the
Court excluded this evidence, there was still substantial evidence supporting
the fraud and breach of contract theories. Plaintiffs did not need to show that
there was a prior water leak or rat infestation within the specific premises
leased by Plaintiffs. 
 
Improper Closing Arguments 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs'
counsel whipped up the jury's prejudice and asked it to do what the “other
tenants” had been unable to do, based upon disputes that had nothing at all to
do with Plaintiffs' Premises. However, this point does not demonstrate that
there was insufficient evidence to support the jury’s conclusions regarding the
fraud or breach of the lease agreement.
 
Punitive Damages
 
Defendants argue that the evidence
presented of Defendants’ wealth cannot support the punitive damages award.  “The purposes of
punitive damages are to punish the defendant and deter the commission of
similar acts. [Citations.] Three primary considerations govern the
amount of punitive damages: (1) the reprehensibility of the defendant’s
conduct; (2) the injury suffered by the victims; and (3) the wealth of the
defendant.  [Citation.]  As to the wealth of the defendant, the
function of deterrence ‘will not be served if the wealth of the defendant
allows him to absorb the award with little or no discomfort’; conversely, ‘the
function of punitive damages is not served by an award which, in light of the
defendant’s wealth and the gravity of the particular act, exceeds the level
necessary to properly punish and deter.’ ” (Rufo
v. Simpson (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 573, 619-620; see
Adams v. Murakami (1991) 54 Cal.3d 105, 109-112 [“A reviewing court
cannot make a fully informed determination of whether an award of punitive
damages is excessive unless the record contains evidence of the defendant’s
financial condition.”].)
 
“To enable an appellate court to review whether punitive
damages are excessive, the record must contain ‘evidence of the defendant's
financial condition.’  [Citation.]  Because the important question is
whether the punitive damages will have the deterrent effect without being
excessive, an award that is reasonable in light of the first two factors,
reprehensibility of the defendant's conduct and injury to the victims, may
nevertheless ‘be so disproportionate to the defendant's ability to pay that the
award is excessive’ for that reason alone.  ‘[T]he purpose of punitive
damages is not served by financially destroying a defendant. The purpose is to
deter, not to destroy.’ ”  (Rufo, supra, 86 Cal.App.4th at p.
620.)   
 
California courts have reversed awards of punitive damages
where such damages (in the amount of $5 million) exceeded more than two and
one-half months of a defendants’ income in one year and more than seven months
of such income in the next (Egan v. Mut. of Omaha Ins. Co. (1979)
24 Cal.3d 809, 824), where such damages (in the amount of half a million
dollars) constituted almost one-third of a defendant’s net worth (Merlo v.
Standard Life & Acc. Ins. Co. (1976) 59 Cal.App.3d 5, 18), and
where such damages (in the amount of $2.5 million) were in excess of 15 percent
of a defendant’s entire net worth (Little v. Stuyvesant Life Ins. Co.
(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 451, 469-470).   
 
Reviewing the entirety of the
record, Plaintiffs failed to offer substantial evidence of the net worth of
Defendants. Indeed, the record does not show a complete picture of Defendants’
wealth, including their net worth, their gross or net income, their other
assets, or any of their liabilities. To the extent that Plaintiffs offered
evidence of FAM’s net worth, the record shows that the punitive award was more
than twice the presented net worth. 
 
Plaintiffs point to a variety of
evidence which they contend could support inferences of Defendants’ financial
condition. First, the jury heard evidence that Fortuna’s net worth is $70,000
to $100,000. (Muro Decl., ex. 8, RT Day 8, at 49:25-50:1.) 926 Broadway, LLC
owns two mixed-use buildings in Santa Monica. (Ex. 8, RT Day 8, at 49:10-12.)
The building in which the subject restaurant was located contains at least five
commercial units. (Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 49:28-50:5.) The building’s commercial
level contained a dentist office, a coffee shop, a dance studio, Fortuna’s
offices, and a Pilates studio. Of the 20,000 square feet of commercial space in
the building, 16.57% was leased to Plaintiffs. (Ex. 4, RT Day 4, at 179:5025.) The
commercial unit leased by Plaintiffs took in almost $15,000.00 a month for the
first year including CAM fees. (Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 20:2-22:6; Ex. 5, RT Day 5,
at 117:7-10.) The other commercial tenants were also charged a similar fee for
maintenance of the common areas. (Ex. 4, RT Day 4, at 178:25-27.) Based on the
CAM fees charged to Plaintiffs, a juror could infer that CAM fees were roughly
$11,471.34 per month (or $137,656 per year) total for the building, including
real property taxes. (Ex. 16.) Further, there were three floors of residential
units above the commercial level. (Ex. 2, RT Day 2, at 49:19-21; Ex. 5, RT Day
5, at 5:14-17.) Fortuna’s PMK testified that two-bedroom apartments in the
building were rented out at $3,700 or $3,800 a month. (Ex. 5, RT Day 5, at
47:19-20.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ evidence, however, does
not contain critical information regarding Defendants’ financial condition.
Plaintiffs ask the Court to extrapolate the amount of rent that 926 Broadway
might have received from one of its two assets. However, Plaintiffs provide no information
about Defendants' other assets (such as the second mixed-use building), or their
total liabilities, such as mortgages and other encumbrances. Even assuming the
truth of Plaintiffs’ estimates, a juror still could not make any conclusions
about Defendants’ financial conditions without evidence of the total debt on Defendants’
properties (i.e., whether they have any equity) or whether Defendants’ debts
exceed their assets. There is no competent evidence suggesting that Defendants
have any line of credit or could mortgage these properties. This evidentiary
hole would justify denial of punitive damages against 926 Broadway.
 
As for FAM, the only evidence was
that it had an approximate net worth of somewhere between $70,000 and $100,000.
This evidence also lacks the necessary context to determine FAM’s financial
conditions. There is no evidence regarding FAM’s income and expenses. Further,
since the only evidence shows a net worth of, at most, $100,000.00, then the
punitive award exceeding two and a half times that amount would be grossly
disproportionate and objectionable as a matter of law.  
 
Plaintiffs invoke the doctrine of
invited error. “Under the doctrine of invited error, a party may not object to
the sufficiency of the evidence to support a finding against him when the lack
is the result of improper exclusion of evidence at his own instance.
[Citations.] A party who has prevented proof of a fact by his erroneous
objection will not be permitted to take advantage of his own wrong, and a
reviewing court will assume that the fact was duly proved.” (Chakalis v.
Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1570.) This doctrine
applies to evidence of financial condition supporting punitive damages. “[A] defendant
who thwarts a plaintiff's ability to meet this obligation may forfeit the right
to complain about the lack of evidence of his or her financial
condition.” (Garcia v. Myllyla (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 990, 995; see Fernandes
v. Singh (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 932, 942 [“A number of cases have held that
noncompliance with a court order to disclose financial condition precludes a
defendant from challenging the sufficiency of the evidence of a punitive
damages award on appeal.”].)] 
 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
improperly obstructed the presentation of evidence of their financial condition.
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants were obligated to produce financial records at
trial due to their notice to attend.  A
Notice to Attend is used to secure the attendance of opposing party or its
agents and employees at trial. (CCP § 1987(b).) A Notice to Attend may only
compel the attendance of the following individuals: (1) any party to the
action; (2) an officer, director or managing agent of such party; or (3) any
person whose immediate benefit the action is maintained, e.g., beneficiary of
trust. (Id.) A Notice to Attend may also include a request for production of
documents. (CCP § 1987(c).) The request must (1) be served on the party from
whom production is sought at least 20 days before the date of attendance is
required, (2) state the exact materials or things desired, and (3) that the
party or person has them in his or her possession or control. (Id.) The party
or person of whom the request is made may challenge the notice by serving
written objections and a statement of grounds within 5 days after service of
the notice. (Id.) After the objections are served, the burden shifts to the
requesting party to file a noticed motion for production of the items sought,
“accompanied by a showing of good cause and of materiality” to the issues in
the case. (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs do not show that
Defendants were required or ordered to produce these documents. As shown by the
transcript, Plaintiffs requested Defendants produce documents and records at
trial of their financial condition to prove punitive damages. (Ex. 8, RT Day 8,
at 46:26-47:12.) However, Defendants timely objected to the notice within 5
days after service. Following this objection, Plaintiffs needed to file a
noticed motion for production of the items sought. Plaintiffs did not file such
a motion or secure an order. Thus, Defendants were not obligated to produce the
documents of their financial condition. Defendants therefore did not improperly
prevent or thwart production on their financial condition. This precludes
Plaintiffs from relying on the invited error doctrine.
 
To sum, the record demonstrates
that the punitive damages are excessive, as there is no substantial evidence
supporting the financial conditions of Defendants. Therefore, the imposition of
punitive damages would be unjust here.
 
Accordingly, the motion for JNOV is
GRANTED as to the claim of punitive damages only. Punitive damages should be
excluded from the judgment. Otherwise, the motions are DENIED.