 On September 20, 2022, Plaintiffs Wei Chen, Weifeng International, Inc., and AIIC 17 YM Culver City, LLC filed the operative First Amended FAC (“FAC”) against Defendants Yalla Acquisition, LLC, Yalla Mediterranean Franchising Company, LLC, and FAT Brands Management, LLC for (1) rescission and restitution, (2) violations of California Franchise Investment Law, (3) violations of California Corporate Securities Law, (4) breach of contract (count I), (5) breach of contract (count II), and (6) violation of the UCL.  Plaintiffs allege as follows.  “The agreements that Mr. Chen was induced to enter into concerned (1) acquisition by Weifeng from Yalla Acquisition, of an entity (AIIC) that, Mr. Chen was told by them, owned a Yalla Mediterranean restaurant in Culver City, California; (2) sale by Yalla Franchising to the restaurant owner (AIIC), of a Yalla Mediterranean restaurant franchise; (3) arrangements for Fat Brands to manage and operate the restaurant; (4) Mr. Chen providing $770,000 to Defendant Yalla Acquisition to fund the above; and (5) this qualified Mr. Chen to own a restaurant through AIIC and to live and work in the United States (the ‘Transaction.’)”  (FAC ¶ 23.)  “At the time of purportedly entering into the Franchise Agreement, Yalla Franchising and the other Defendants were not registered in California to offer and sell franchises. The franchise agreement that was purportedly entered into was not registered when executed.”  (FAC ¶ 25.)  “The representation that AIIC owned the Restaurant was incorrect. Neither Yalla Acquisition nor AIIC had ownership of the Restaurant. The Restaurant was owned by Yalla Med or Med Cuisine.”  (FAC ¶ 28.)  “Ownership of the Restaurant was never transferred to Plaintiffs.”  (FAC ¶ 29.)  “When Defendants sold the membership interest to Plaintiffs, Defendants knew they were selling an unregistered security. Defendants, with this knowledge, and seeking to unlawfully evade liability, induced Plaintiff Weifeng to acknowledge incorrectly that what it acquired was not a security. This was an unlawful effort by Defendants to obtain a waiver of compliance with the securities law and regulations.”  (FAC ¶ 36.)  “The grounds for rescission include but are not limited to: (i) violations by Defendants of the Franchise Investment Law, (ii) violations by Defendants of the Corporate Securities Law; (iii) material misrepresentation by Defendants, reasonably relied on by Plaintiffs, in that ownership of the Restaurant was not held by Defendants nor AIIC at the time of selling AIIC to Plaintiff, (iv) ownership of the Restaurant was never transferred to AIIC or Plaintiff, (iv) unilateral and/or mutual mistake; (v) and failure of consideration.”  (FAC ¶ 46.)Motions to CompelDefendants Yalla Acquisition, LLC, Yalla Mediterranean Franchising Company, LLC, and FAT Brands Management, LLC seek to compel Plaintiffs Wei Chen and Weifeng International, Inc. to provide further responses to their requests for production, set one.  Defendants also seek to compel Plaintiff Chen to provide further responses to their requests for admission, set one, nos. 32-33.With respect to requests for admission, the requests at issue seek for Plaintiff Chen to admit that he represented in his visa application that he would be actively involved in the management of AIIC and the restaurant.  Plaintiff contends the information is subject to privacy rights and that it is irrelevant because Plaintiff is not pursuing a claim based on a denial of the visa.Here, the narrowly tailored admission that Defendants seek might be relevant to credibility in this specific case in that the issue of Plaintiff’s active management is key in determining whether a security interest exists for Plaintiff’s third cause of action.  Thus, the Court will require further responses within 20 days.  The one request for production directed at Chen seeks his visa application and all related documents.  The Court will not require that these documents, which contain private information, be produced.  The narrowly tailored request for admission discussed above is sufficient for Defendants’ purposes.  The one request for production directed at Weifeng seeks all contracts signed on its behalf by Chen.  Weifeng responded as follows: “Responding Party will produce the agreements subject to this dispute without conceding to any legal conclusions regarding whether Mr. Chen properly executed the agreements on behalf of the Plaintiff entities.”  Defendants argue that this request is relevant to the allegation that “The agreements were not executed by parties with requisite formalities or by requisite individuals in requisite capacities to bind the parties.”  (FAC ¶  61.)Despite the FAC’s boilerplate allegations, it is not apparent that Plaintiffs are denying that Chen had authority to sign documents on behalf of Weifeng.  In any case, the Court believes the subject request is overbroad and that the information sought can be better addressed through a request for admission or deposition inquiry.  The Motion is denied.Motion to Quash  Plaintiffs seek to quash a subpoena issued to their accountant, Alex Chen.Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)The amended subpoena at issue seeks: 1. All COMMUNICATIONS and correspondence relating to or referencing the accounting services you performed for AIIC for the period of May 2019 to May 2022. 2. All COMMUNICATIONS and correspondence relating to or referencing the accounting services you performed for WEIFENG for the period of May 2019 to May 2022. 3. All notes, memoranda, workpapers, and other similar DOCUMENTS (excluding tax returns) prepared or created by you or your agents or employees relating to or referencing AIIC for the period of May 2019 to May 2022. 4. All notes, memoranda, workpapers, and other similar DOCUMENTS (excluding tax returns) prepared or created by you or your agents or employees relating to or referencing WEIFENG for the period of May 2019 to May 2022. 5. All DOCUMENTS (excluding tax returns) consisting of accounting, banking, and other financial documents for AIIC for the period of May 2019 to May 2022 (including, but not limited to, annual reports, financial statements, balance sheets, sales tax records, profit and loss statements, income statements, cash flow statements, bank statements, ledgers, check books and registers, cash flow analysis, cost analysis, financial forecasts, cancelled checks, check stubs, check vouchers, drafts, debit memos, receipts, credit memos, as well as all records that would support any deduction taken on any tax return). 6. All DOCUMENTS (excluding tax returns) consisting of accounting, banking, and other financial documents for WEIFENG for the period of May 2019 to May 2022 (including, but not limited to, annual reports, financial statements, balance sheets, sales tax records, profit and loss statements, income statements, cash flow statements, bank statements, ledgers, check books and registers, cash flow analysis, cost analysis, financial forecasts, cancelled checks, check stubs, check vouchers, drafts, debit memos, receipts, credit memos, as well as all records that would support any deduction taken on any tax return). Defendants contend that (a) “In overruling Defendants’ demurrer, this Court found “‘actual and legal questions remain as to whether Chen actively managed’ the LLC. Records showing that Plaintiffs’ managed AIIC’s finances and taxes would be relevant to establish they were actively managing the LLC”; (b) “Plaintiffs also allege that ‘[o]wnership of the Restaurant was not in AIIC nor transferred to AIIC after the Transaction.’ [FAC, ¶ 52] . . . Financial records showing that Plaintiffs treated the restaurant assets and liabilities as their own assets and liabilities would be relevant to establish their ownership of the restaurant business”; (c) “if Weifeng and AIIC lacked sufficient funds to pay the Restaurant’s operating expenses, the restaurant would have closed regardless of Defendants’ purported budgeting failures or alleged one-sided presentation. Financial records showing that Plaintiffs had insufficient funds to operate the restaurant would be relevant to establish Defendants’ alleged conduct did not cause their damages.”Defendants further state, “Following Defendants’ issuance of the amended subpoena, the parties’ dispute over the requests now centers on two legal questions: (1) does the tax return privilege protect more than the tax returns itself and extend to documents and communications relating to or made in preparation for completing tax returns, and (2) should the financial records of Weifeng be limited only to those financial records relating to AIIC and its restaurant. Defendants submit that the applicable facts and law confirm that the answer to both of these questions is ‘no.’ ”In Reply, Plaintiffs agree that: “the issue here is twofold: (1) whether Defendants are entitled to the notes, memoranda, workpapers, and other similar documents from Plaintiffs’ accountant, Mr. Alex Chen and (2) whether Defendants are entitled to all of Plaintiffs’ Weifeng’s financial documents.”“[T]he privilege protects all entries made on tax returns (e.g., amounts of income reported, deductions claimed, etc.). I.e., the content of the return, as well as production of the returns themselves, is privileged. [Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Botney) (1975) 15 C3d 1, 7, 123 CR 283, 287] . . . Also protected are any other documents forming an ‘integral part’ of the tax returns—such as W-2 forms. [Brown v. Sup.Ct. (Executive Car Leasing) (1977) 71 CA3d 141, 144, 139 CR 327, 328—personal injury plaintiff, claiming earnings loss, could not be compelled to produce W-2 forms received from employer] . . . However, the privilege apparently does not extend to a taxpayer's underlying records and data upon which the returns are based (e.g., party's checkbooks, journals, ledgers, etc.).”  (Wegner et al., Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Trials & Ev. (The Rutter Guide 2021) Ch. 8E-A.)Here, the tax privilege would not protect underlying notes, memoranda, workpapers, and other similar documents, which are not an integral component of the tax process like a W-2.  On the other hand, in light of the privacy rights at issue, the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, will limit the financial documents for Weifeng to those dealing with AIIC.  Defendants primarily contend they need more financial information as to Weifeng to determine whether it could have, pursuant to the parties’ contract, funded expenses that exceeded revenues, which is relevant to causation.  But, even if this were relevant despite the fact that it’s not apparent that funds were ever requested of Weifeng, the documents at issue are overbroad for Defendants’ purposes.  Thus, the Motion is granted in part as set forth above.  That is, there will only be a narrowing to the extent that Weifeng’s financial documents will be limited to those dealing with AIIC/the restaurant.Defendants to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.