 This is an employment, wage and hour, and PAGA action.Motion to Compel by Plaintiff Plaintiff Andrea Skibbs seeks to compel a further response to her request for production, set one, no. 72 from Maritz Motivation, Inc.  Plaintiff asserts that Defendant produced redacted documents without a privilege log. Request no. 72 seeks “Any and all contracts or agreements between YOU and any business, entity or person whose account was serviced, managed or worked on by PLAINTIFF during the last three (3) years of her employment.” Defendant responded: “Defendant . . . objects to this request to the extent that: [1] it is vague and ambiguous, including as to the following term(s)/phrase(s): ‘serviced, managed, or worked on’; [2] it is overbroad, unduly burdensome, oppressive, and harassing; [3] it seeks information that is neither relevant to the subject matter of this action nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; [4] it seeks Defendant's confidential, financial, proprietary, trade secret or competitively sensitive information; [5] it fails to describe with sufficient particularity the information to be produced.”  Defendant contends that the documents requested are overbroad and do not necessarily relate to Plaintiff's commissions; some contracts have trade secret information and cannot be produced unredacted unless there is an attorneys’ eyes only protective order; and the contracts contain private employee information.  With respect to proprietary information, Defendant indicates that “[t]he Contracts include details regarding the sale, cost and terms of business between Defendant and its clients, which information Defendant keeps secret to avoid providing its competitors with information that could be used to compete against Defendant. This is unquestionably highly sensitive information.” The objections as to vagueness and insufficient description lack merit. To the extent there are redactions, the Court orders that a privilege log be provided.  The identity of other employees should not be redacted as these individuals could be witnesses.  Once a privilege log is provided, Plaintiff can seek a further production if the log does not justify the redactions. All contracts from the last three years that could in any way be used to compute Plaintiff’s commissions should be produced.  That is, a contract that cannot be related to commissions need not be produced.   The Motion to Compel is granted.  A further response/production will be required within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Motion to Compel by Defendants   Defendant Maritz Motivation, Inc. seeks to compel further responses from Plaintiff as to its request for production, set two, nos. 79-82 and 84-86. The requests at issue seek all documents and communications relating to discrimination, harassment, and retaliation with subsequent employers. Employment documents are subject to privacy rights, and the request for all documents and communications is overbroad.  If Defendant wishes to learn about alternative sources of emotional distress, Defendant can make that a point of inquiry at a deposition.   The Motion is denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Plaintiff to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 