 On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs Jessica Spratt, Steven Spratt, and Carla Whalen filed the operative Complaint against their landlords, Defendants James M. Ward and Duopoly, LLC, for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) private nuisance, (7) premises liability, (8) retaliatory acts, and (9) violation of LA TAHO.On May 14, 2024, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, and (3) defamation.  On July 11, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ anti-SLAPP motion, striking the defamation claim within the Cross-Complaint.DemurrerPlaintiffs now demur to the Cross-Complaint’s fraud claim for failure to state sufficient facts. “The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, internal quotation marks omitted.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations] Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings . . . will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.  This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotation marks omitted.) The alleged misrepresentations are that (1) Plaintiffs said they needed a four bedroom Airbnb during remediation efforts when they knew they would be going to Europe and wanted to to rent the Airbnb to others to make money; (2) Plaintiffs said the “back” house was not habitable to convince Defendants that the occupant, Plaintiff Carla Whalen, also needed to relocate when the plan was to merely rent the back house to others while Whalen was at the Airbnb; and (3) Jessica Spratt said she would be using the “studio” for her business when she was actually renting it to others without Defendants’ consent.  The fraud claim is not particularly pleaded.  For the first and second misrepresentations above, there is no indication as to when, where, or how (in-person, telephone, etc.) they were said.  Similarly, for the third misrepresentation, there is no indication of where or how it was said.  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend.Motion to Strike  Given the ruling above, the Motion to Strike punitive damages is granted, with 20 days leave to amend. Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 