 Case Number:  22STCV24378    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial filed by Defendant Deanna Newton.
Tentative
The motion is DENIED.
Background
On July 28, 2022, Jose Jerez and Danny Ray
Alianza DeSouza, a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litam, Ana Guillen
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”),
Marilyn Sue Adkins (“Adkins”), and Does 1 through 25 for (1) motor vehicle
negligence, (2) negligence and premises liability, (3) dangerous condition of
public property, and (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress causes of
action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on August 3, 2021, at or
near the intersection of 66th Street and Estrella Avenue in Los Angeles.
In January and June 2023, Plaintiffs amended
their complaint to name Deanna Newton (“Newton”), Restore Neighborhoods LA,
Inc., Barry Brewer, and Jasmine Beard as Doe defendants.  Restore Neighborhoods LA, Inc. was
subsequently dismissed.
On March 22, 2023, City filed its answer to
the complaint and a cross-complaint against Adkins and Roes 1 through 10. 
On May 31, 2023, Newton filed her answer to
the complaint and a cross-complaint against City, Adkins, and Roes 1 through 10.

On August 11, 2023, Adkins filed an answer to
both the complaint and City’s cross-complaint. 
Adkins also filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1 through 100.
On May 24, 2024, the Court entered an order
determining that the settlement between Plaintiffs and Adkins was a good faith
settlement under code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
When the case was filed, the Court assigned a
trial date of January 25, 2024.  In
August 2023, the Court continued the trial date to July 25, 2024, based on the
stipulation of the parties.
On May 20, 2024, Newton filed this motion to
continue trial and all related dates. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on June 4.
 Newton filed a reply on June 21.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Newton moves to
continue trial for 90 days to complete discovery.  Newton has the burden to show good cause for the
requested continuance and has not done so.
With the moving
papers, Newton’s counsel provides little facts to support a good cause
determination.  Counsel states, in conclusory
terms, that Newton has “worked diligently to obtain the necessary discovery,”
but no supporting facts are stated. 
(Foreman Decl., ¶ 11.)  Newton
appeared in the case in May 2023, the current July 2024 trial date (and June
2024 discovery cutoff) was set in August 2023, and there is no evidence that
Newton took any action to schedule the independent medical examinations until
the middle of May 2024, essentially the eleventh hour.  A party’s lack of diligence in obtaining
necessary discovery is not good cause for a trial continuance.
In the reply, Newton’s
counsel notes that Plaintiffs recently requested a ten-day continuance to
provide supplemental discovery responses, pushing the response date from June
17 to June 27.  It is true that the supplemental
document production will now be made two days after the discovery cutoff, but
it is unclear why that delay is good cause for the requested relief of a 90-day
continuance of trial.
In the absence of
a showing of good cause by the moving party, the motion is denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant Deanna Newton’s
motion trial.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.