 Case Number:  22STCV00886    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel
Plaintiff to Respond to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Requests for Production (Set One)
Motion for Order Deeming Plaintiff to Have Admitted the Truth of the Matters Specified
in Requests for Admission (Set One) 
Tentative
The motions are granted.
The requests for sanctions are granted in part
and denied in part.
Background
On January 10, 2022, Youseff Helmy
(“Plaintiff”), Yuliia Martynenko, and Amr Hassan filed a complaint against Adam
Schwartz (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50 for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence arising out of an accident occurring on December 8, 2021, at
or near the intersection of Santa Monica Boulevard and Stoner Avenue in Los Angeles.
On January 19, 2024, Defendant filed an
answer to the complaint as well as a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Roes
1 through 15.
Defendant served Plaintiff with discovery on
January 18, including Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), Requests for Production (Set One), and Requests for Admission (Set
One).  (Bakshandeh Decls., ¶ 2 &
Exhs. A.)  Plaintiff requested and
received two extensions of time but has still failed to respond to the
discovery. (Id., ¶¶ 3-6.)
On May 29, 2024, Defendant filed these four motions:
(1) motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to Form Interrogatories (Set One);
(2) motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to, Special Interrogatories (Set
One); (3) motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to Requests for Production (Set
One); and (4) motion for an order deeming Plaintiff to have admitted the truth
of the matters specified in Requests for Admission (Set One).  In each motion, Defendant also seeks
sanctions. 
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
A party must
respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) There is
no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and confer
efforts are required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves
to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
A party must
respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after service.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for
production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial responses to
requests for production, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).) 
A party must
respond to requests for admission within 30 days after service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.250, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party “may move for an
order that … the truth of [the] matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) There is no time
limit for such a motion, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id.,
§ 2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) 
The court “shall”
make the order that the truth of the matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted unless the court “finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see St. Mary v. Super. Ct. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778-780.)
“It is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion [to deem
admitted the truth of the matters specified in the requests for admission].”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020, subd. (a).)
Discussion
On January 18, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff
with Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests
for Production (Set One), and Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Bakshandeh Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. A.)  Plaintiff has not responded to these
discovery requests.  (Id., ¶ 6.)
Defendant need not show anything more.  The motions to compel Plaintiff to respond to
the form interrogatories, the special interrogatories, and the requests for
production are GRANTED.  The motion for
an order deeming Plaintiff to have admitted the truth of the matters specified
in the requests for admission is GRANTED.
The requests for sanctions in connection with the motions
to compel responses to the interrogatories and requests for production are DENIED.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery” but does not
independently authorize sanctions for such conduct.
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides
for the imposition of sanctions against any party or attorney who engages in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process “[t]o the extent authorized
by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision
of this title [the Civil Discovery Act].” 
This section, itself, does not independently authorize sanctions.
In the chapters of the Civil Discovery Act governing
interrogatories and requests for production, the Legislature has authorized
sanctions in the context of a motion to compel initial responses “against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes” the motion to compel.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c) &
2031.300, subd. (c).)  Here, however,
Plaintiff has not opposed the motion. 
Accordingly, no sanctions are authorized.
The request
for sanctions in connection with the motion for a deemed-admitted order is
GRANTED.  The chapter in the Civil
Discovery Act governing requests for admission provides for a “mandatory”
imposition of sanctions “on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion [for a deemed-admitted order].”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)
In
light of the economies of scale associated with preparing multiple discovery
motions, and the reasonably straightforward nature of a motion for a deemed-admitted
order, the Court sets sanctions in the amount of $660, based on two hours of
attorney time, multiplied by a reasonable rate of $300 per hour for work of
this nature, plus a $60 filing fee. (See Bakshandeh Decl., ¶ 8.)
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the Motions to Compel Plaintiff Youseff Helmy to
Respond to Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One),
and Requests for Production (Set One). 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, written,
verified responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set
One) within 15 days of notice of this order.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, written,
verified responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories
(Set One) within 15 days of notice of this order.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, written,
verified responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Requests for Production (Set
One) within 15 days of notice of this order.
The Court GRANTS the Motion for an Order Deeming Plaintiff to
Have Admitted the Truth of the Matters Specified in Request for Admissions (Set
One).
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff is Deemed to Have Admitted the
Truth of the Matters Specified in Defendant’s Request for Admissions (Set One).
The Court GRANTS IN PART AND DENIES IN PART Defendant’s
requests for monetary sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Youseff Helmy and his attorney of record, Vladimir
Shagramanov and SP Law Group, APC, jointly and severally, to pay monetary
sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $660 to Defendant within
30 days of notice of this order.
Moving party is ORDERED to
give notice.