 Case Number:  22STCV13980    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  29 Petition for Approval of Minor’s Compromise for Elijah Lailson (Age 3).
 
Tentative:
 
 
The petition is GRANTED.
 
The Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant and the
guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference
call.  
 Discussion
The Court has reviewed the petition and proposed orders filed on
May 24, 2024.  The Court finds that the
proposed settlement and fees are fair and reasonable.
 
Petitioner proposes the creation and funding of a Special Needs
Trust (SNT).  Settlements that involve
SNTs require additional review.
 
Notice to State Agencies
 
When seeking approval of an SNT, notice of the hearing and
service of the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the
Department of Mental Health, Department of Developmental Services, and Department
of Health Care Services.  (Prob. Code, §§
3602, subd. (f) & 3611, subd. (c).). 
Petitioner has provided proof of service.  
 
Settlement Terms
 
Gross settlement amount is $5,250,000.  Net settlement amount is $4,272,631.60.
 
Petitioner states that there is a dispute regarding the
Department of Health Care Service’s lien claim. 
Petitioner proposes to hold $70,476.04 in counsel’s client trust account
pending resolution of that claim.  That
amount was deducted from the settlement proceeds to calculate the net
settlement amount stated above and petitioner requests that the Court retain
jurisdiction over this issue.  If the
lien is negotiated, any savings will be ordered funded into the SNT.  
 
Petitioner proposes to use $3,522,631.60 to fund the SNT and
use the remaining $750,000 to purchase an annuity that would pay into the SNT
at:
 
$7,641.25 per month for the life of
Elijah Lailson, guaranteed 30 years, beginning on February 6, 2039.  The last guaranteed payment will be made on
January 6, 2069.   
 
Cost: $750,000.00 
Guaranteed Payout: $2,750,850.00 
Life Expectancy Payout:
$5,318,310.00
 
Additional details regarding the annuity, including annuity
company, are available at Attachment 18b(3) (court’s pdf at p. 73).  
 
Use of SNT
 
An SNT is used to receive the settlement funds in these situations
so that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and
other benefits.  Historically, a person
receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt
assets, and any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss
of benefits eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On
January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was eliminated and
there is no longer a means test for Medi-Cal. 
The asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not change and
therefore may remain a reason for creation and funding of a SNT.  
 
Trust Instrument
 
Petitioner provides the proposed trust instrument as part of
Attachment 18b(4) (court’s pdf at p. 79).
 
The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are
set forth at California Rules of Court, rule 7.903(c), and LASC rule
4.116(b).  The proposed trust instrument
meets those requirements and is ready for approval for creation and/or funding.
 
Additional Requests for Relief
 
Petitioner makes the following additional requests for relief that
are beyond those fundamental to the approval and funding of a settlement trust:
 
Petitioner requests authority for trustee to invest in proprietary funds,
mutual funds, and bonds with maturity dates greater than five years to provide
for diversification and a higher rate of investment return.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p.
76.) 
This request would provide for a broader investment authority than the
statutory baseline but is common when the trust assets will be large and the
investment horizon is long (where plaintiff is fairly young).  
 
The Court GRANTS this request.
 
Required Findings for SNT
 
When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from
settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604, subdivision (b):
 

The
     SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the
     individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and
     constitutes a substantial handicap;
The
     SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met
     without the trust; 
The
     money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears
     reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
Based on the information contained in
the Petition and its attachments, the Court makes these required
findings.
 
Trustee and Bond
 
The proposed initial trustee is WestAmerica Bank.
 
Normally,
bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate
fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court, rule
7.903(c)(5); Prob. Code, § 2320.)  The
proposed trustee meets that requirement and so no bond is required. 
 
Proposed
Orders
 
The proposed orders meet all
applicable requirements, subject to completion by the inclusion of certain
dates.
The proposed order requires
filing of a Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust
on LASC Form PRO 044 within 60 days. 
The proposed order requires
first trust accounting 
The proposed Order sets OSC in
this department to ensure funding of settlement, purchase of annuity, and
filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open the trust supervision action in probate. 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS and APPROVES
the Petition.
The Court requests that the
Judicial Assistant: (1) add the 60 day calendar date in the blank provided at
order pdf, p. 23, para. 7; (2) add date/time/department in the blanks provided
at order pdf, p. 24, para. 9; and (3) add an actual 14 months due date in the
blank provided at order pdf, p. 24, para. 10. 

The Court SETS an OSC re Purchase
of Annuity for ______________ in Dept. 29 at SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.
 