  Case Number:  21STCV33381    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 ROBERT LEATHERMAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NEMESIO AZUL, an individual; CARING
HEART IN-HOME CARE SERVICES, INC.,
a corporation; and DOES 1 through 30,
Inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV33381
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SEVER AND STAY CROSS-COMPLAINANT
  CARING HEART IN-HOME CARE SERVICES, INC.’S FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
Date: May 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 

AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION
 

 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant
Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London (“Underwriters”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainant
Caring Heart In-Home Care Services (“CH”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from alleged
misconduct by Plaintiff’s home-care providers. Plaintiff’s
complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleges claims for: (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3)
elder abuse – financial abuse; and (4) breach of covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. The currently operative first amended cross-complaint (the
“FAXC”) alleges claims for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; and (4)
declaratory relief.
 
In
relevant part, the FAXC alleges that: CH has had a professional liability
insurance policy (the “Policy”) with Underwriters since August 2016. (FAXC ¶
16.) The Policy sets forth Underwriters’ responsibilities to insure and
indemnify CH in the event of a professional liability incident. (See FAXC ¶¶
20-24.) In response to the claims raised in the 
Complaint, CH tendered its defense to Underwriters on or about June 7,
2022. (FAXC ¶ 26.) In October of 2022, Underwriters denied CH’s claim and has
since refused to defend CH in this action. (FAXC ¶¶ 26-27.)
 
On
January 5, 2024, Underwriters filed a demurer of CH’s FAXC. The Court sustained
the demurrer as to the third cause of action without leave to amend on the
ground that it failed to allege the existence of a fiduciary relationship. 
 
The
same day, Underwriters filed the instant motion to sever and stay CH’s First
Amended Complaint (the “Motion”). CH filed an opposition to the Motion on April
22, 2024. Underwriters file a reply to the opposition.  
 
DISCUSSION
“The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order. . .that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) Ruling on motion for separate
trials lies within the trial court’s sound discretion. (Grappo v. Coventry
Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.) “The major objective of
bifurcated trials is to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.”
(Foreman & Clark v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.) It is also the
“avoidance of the waste of time and money caused by the unnecessary trial of damage
questions in cases where the liability issue is resolved against the
plaintiff.” (Horton v Jones (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 952, 955.)¿¿
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure § 1048(b), “The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.” 
 
Underwriters
pray for the Court to enter an order severing and staying the First Amended
Cross-Complaint of CH under CCP §§ 598, 1048 and 2019.020(b) and Evidence Code
§ 1155, on the ground that the insurance policy interpretation, underwriting,
and coverage issues should not be introduced in a financial elder abuse jury
trial against CH as it would be unfair and contrary to law. Underwriters
contend that the underlying liability action for financial elder abuse is unique
from the FAXC issues regarding the insurance coverage issues because the FAXC
clearly involves factual and legal questions that are different from
Leatherman’s elder abuse claims against CH and Defendant Robert Azul.
Underwriters assert that requiring it to actively litigate CH’s claims in the
middle of a lawsuit about alleged elder abuse would present logistical issues
that would delay the underlying lawsuit if the parties are forced to
accommodate the schedules of additional attorneys, client representatives,
witnesses, and deponents involved only in the FAXC. Underwriters additionally
argue that under the "no-action" clause contained in the Policy,
insured parties cannot name Underwriters or their representatives in any legal
action seeking damages.
 
In
opposition, CH argues it is not seeking to join Underwriters as a party but is
counter-suing Underwriters, under section 5(B) of the parties’ agreement, to
fulfill its obligations under the Policy. CH contends that the jury would
understand the underlying action as a separate issue because Plaintiff is not
the party suing Underwriters. Finally, CH asserts that Underwriters has not shown
that absent a stay, it would suffer irreparable harm.
 
CH
does not, however, address Underwriters’ cited authorities, which hold that a
policyholder’s liability must be independently established from a lawsuit that
relates to disputed coverage issues.  Here,
the crux of the FAXC is that Underwriters have violated the parties’ agreement
by refusing to cover CH’s liability for this underlying action. In fact, by CH’s
own admission, it wants to litigate the coverage action within the tort action
in order to “require” Underwriters to defend CH. (Oppo. at pp. 9:17- 20;
11:3-6.) Thus, the issue raised is whether CH’s insurance with Underwriters
covers the underlying liability action and thus must be litigated as a separate
lawsuit. (G. Motion to Sever or Bifurcate, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Trials &
Ev. Ch. 4-G.) Housing both suits under one trial would not be in the interest
of justice, as the issues presented would pose a serious risk of confusing the
jury over the issues of liability in the underlying claim with the issue of
coverage alleged in the FAXC.  Moreover,
it appears that CH employs the wrong standard in examining a motion to sever. A
motion to sever and stay does not require the moving party to show irreparable
harm. 
Therefore,
because the FAXC’s coverage issue turns on facts being litigated in the
underlying action, the Court finds that a severance is warranted. The Motion is
therefore GRANTED. For the same reason, the action on the FAXC is
STAYED pending the outcome of the underlying action.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 8th day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



