 Case Number:  23STCV14722    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ERIKA RAMIREZ,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LAD MB, LLC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.   
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV14722
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Date: 
  May 24, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
LAD-MB, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Erika Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This
action arises from Plaintiff Erika Ramirez (“Ramirez”) purchasing a 2021
Mercedes-Benz C300W (the “Subject Vehicle”). On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Complaint against Defendants LAD MB, LLC, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services
USA LLC, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”), Travelers Casualty Insurance Company
of America (collectively “Defendants”), as well as DOES 1 through 75,
inclusive, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Violations of the
Consumers Legal Remedies Act; (2) Intentional Misrepresentation; (3) Concealment;
(4) Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Breach of Express Warranty; (6) Violations
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; (7) Failure to Commence Repairs Within
a Reasonable Time and to Complete Them; (8) Failure to Promptly Repurchase
Product; (9) Violations of the Unfair Competition Law; and (10) Violation of
Vehicle Code section 1711. Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle pursuant to
a Retail Installment Sale Contract (the “RISC”). (Complaint, ¶ 1; Exh. 1.) 
 
            On
August 14, 2023, Moving Defendant (erroneously sued as LAD MB, LLC) and
Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America (“Travelers”) (erroneously
sued as Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America) filed a joint Answer
to the Complaint. The Answer of Moving Defendant and Travelers sets forth 50
affirmative defenses, none of which asserts a right to compel arbitration. 
 
            On
December 26, 2023, Moving Defendant and Travelers filed a Notice of Posting
Jury Fees which demanded a jury trial and stated that such parties paid the
statutory advance jury fee of $150.00 on such date. 
 
            Also,
on December 26, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a Case Management Statement. In
its Case Management Statement, Moving Defendant indicated that it requests a
jury trial. (12/26/23 Case Management Statement at ¶ 5.) Moreover, Moving
Defendant did not indicate its willingness to submit to binding private arbitration.
(12/26/23 Case Management Statement at ¶ 10(c).) 
 
            On
January 10, 2024, after hearing, the Court denied the motion to compel
arbitration filed by Defendant MBUSA on the grounds that Defendant MBUSA was
not entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement as a third-party beneficiary
or under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. (01/10/24 Minute Order at pp.
3-5.) 
            
            On January
31, 2024, Moving Defendant filed and served the instant motion to compel
arbitration and stay action (the “Motion”) on the ground that the RISC, which
Plaintiff signed, contains an arbitration agreement. Moving Defendant seeks an
order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate all of her claims in accordance with
the arbitration agreement and to stay this action pending the outcome of
arbitration. 
 
            On May
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion and contends that: (1)
Moving Defendant waived the right to compel arbitration; (2) if the Court does
not find the presence of waiver, the Court should deny the Motion because
forcing Plaintiff to arbitrate with AAA or NAM is unconscionable; and (3) the
Court should not include MBUSA in granting Moving Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration because the Court already denied MBUSA’s motion to compel
arbitration. 
 
            On
May 17, 2024, Moving Defendant filed a reply brief and asserts that: (1) it did
not waive its right to compel arbitration; and (2) should the Motion be
granted, Defendant MBUSA should not be precluded from attendance at
arbitration. 
 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The Court GRANTS the respective requests for judicial
notice filed by Moving Defendant and Plaintiff. (Evid. Code §§ 452, 453.) The
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the respective court documents
but not to the truth of the matters stated therein. (Fremont Indemnity Co.
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Parties may
be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was
a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement
covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration
agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) 
            
The Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a transaction
involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls
v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA
provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A
state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of
generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an
arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration
provisions. (Ibid.) 
 
            For the FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate
commerce. (Ibid.) When it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule
that stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal
v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA
preemption bears the burden to present evidence establishing a contract with
the arbitration provision affects interstate commerce, and the failure to do so
renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.) Evidence must be presented, in the
form of declarations or other evidence, that establishes that the contract
affects interstate commerce.  (Ibid.) “[S]ince arbitration is a matter
of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis
v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
            
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for
the revocation of the agreement.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).) Thus, in assessing a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the [motion] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.) 
            
“If a court
of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which
is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
 
Terms of the Arbitration Provision 
             The RISC, which is attached as Exhibit 1 to
the Complaint, contains an arbitration agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”)
on the last page therein. (Complaint, ¶1; Exh. 1 at p. 5.)  
The RISC was entered into between Plaintiff and Moving
Defendant on March 4, 2023. (Complaint, ¶ 1; Exh. 1 at p. 5.) 
 
            The
Arbitration Agreement included in the RISC provides in part:
 
“Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase, or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)
shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and
not by a court action.” 
 
(Complaint, ¶ 1; Exh. 1 at p. 5.) 
 
The Arbitration Agreement further
provides that “[y]ou or we may choose the American
Arbitration Association . . . or National Arbitration
and Mediation . . . as the arbitration organization to conduct the arbitration.
If you and we agree, you or we may choose a different arbitration
organization.” (Complaint, ¶ 1; Exh. 1 at p. 5.) The Arbitration Agreement
states that “[a]ny arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be
governed by the Federal Arbitration act . . . and not by any state law
concerning binding arbitration.” (Complaint, ¶ 1; Exh. 1 at p. 5.)  
 
Issue No.1: The Applicability of the FAA 
            Here,
the Arbitration Agreement explicitly states that the FAA will apply. Thus, the
Court finds that the FAA applies to assessing whether to compel arbitration of
this matter. Moreover, the parties do not dispute the applicability of the FAA
to the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Issue No. 2: Existence of an Agreement to Arbitrate
and Coverage of Plaintiff’s Claims
            The
Court finds that Moving Defendant has shown the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate and has shown that such agreement covers the claims at issue in the
Complaint. The Complaint arises from the purchase and condition of the Subject
Vehicle. Moving Defendant has set forth the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show any
fact necessary to her defense. 
 
 
 
Issue No. 3: Waiver 
            Plaintiff
contends that Moving Defendant waived the right to compel arbitration and
therefore the Motion should be denied. On reply, Moving Defendant asserts that
it did not waive its right to compel arbitration. 
 
            Where an arbitration agreement does not
specify the time in which arbitration must be demanded, a reasonable time is
allowed; a party who does not demand arbitration within a reasonable time is
deemed to have waived the right to arbitration. (Spear v. California State
Auto Assn (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) “[W]hat constitutes a reasonable
time is a question of fact, depending on the situation of the parties, the
nature of the transaction, and the facts of the particular case.” (Ibid.)

 
In
determining waiver, a court can consider the following factors: (1) whether a
party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the
litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the parties were well
into preparation of a lawsuit before the party notified the opposing party of
an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party requested arbitration close to the
trial date or delayed for a long period of time before seeking a stay; (4)
whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for
a stay of proceedings; (5) whether intervening steps such as taking advantage
of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration have taken place;
and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party. (Adolph
v. Coastal Auto Sales, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1450.) Waiver is
not found only where there is “mere participation in litigation.” (Ibid.)
Participation, standing alone, does not constitute waiver because “there is an
overriding federal policy favoring arbitration.” (Ibid.) A party seeking
to establish waiver bears a heavy burden of proof. (Ibid.) A court will
“indulge every intendment to give effect to [arbitration] proceedings.” (Christensen
v. Dewor Developments (1983) 33 Cal.3d 778, 782.)  A trial court must view the litigation as a
whole and determine if the parties’ conduct is inconsistent with a desire to
arbitrate. (Lewis v. Fletcher Jones Motor Cars, Inc. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 436, 449.) 
 
            Initially,
the Court will address Plaintiff’s contention that she is not required to show
prejudice under the FAA to establish waiver. “[W]here the FAA applies, whether
a party has waived a right to arbitrate is a matter of federal, not state law.”
(Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 956,
963.) Under federal law, an opposing party need not make a showing of prejudice
to establish waiver in the arbitration context. (Morgan v. Sundance, Inc. (2022)
596 U.S. 411, 416.) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff need not show
prejudice to establish waiver pursuant to Morgan, supra, 596 U.S.
411, 416. 
 
            The
Court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden in establishing waiver. The
declaration of Gregory T. Babbitt (“Babbitt”) submitted in opposition to the
Motion does not state any facts concerning waiver. The Court reminds Plaintiff
that “[i]n law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court
by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) Plaintiff did not submit a declaration in opposition
to the Motion.
 
While Moving Defendant did not raise
arbitration as a defense in its Answer, requested a jury trial and posted jury
fees, and did not indicate a willingness to submit to arbitration in its Case
Management Statement, the Court does not find that such actions—taken as a
whole—are indicative of waiver. Here, there has been no substantial invocation
of the litigation machinery as the instant motion is the only motion that has
been filed by Moving Defendant in this action. There have been no discovery
motions filed or any other dispositive motions filed in this action. Moving
Defendant acknowledges in its reply that its only discovery requests have been for
standard information about the Subject Vehicle and Plaintiff’s communications
supporting her demand. (Reply at p. 5:8-11.) Moving Defendant argues, however,
that none of the discovery requests are unavailable in a standard arbitration
forum. (Reply at p. 5:8-11.) The Court does not find that the propounding of
basic discovery—which is also available in arbitration—leads to a finding of
waiver.
 
Moreover, jury trial is not set to
commence until March 10, 2025. As such, Moving Defendant is not requesting
arbitration close to the trial date. Also, Moving Defendant has not filed a
counterclaim without asking for a stay of proceedings. 
 
In its reply, Moving Defendant argues
that it did not have a reasonable opportunity to assert its preference for
arbitration because: (1) it was not served with a copy of the motion to compel
arbitration filed by Defendant MBUSA; and (2) it was not given an opportunity
to comment on any arguments that Defendant MBUSA could have made in support of
its motion. (Reply at p. 3:4-7.) Thus, it appears that Moving Defendant is
alluding to the fact that it may have joined the now-denied motion to compel
arbitration filed by Defendant MBUSA. 
 
Under Adolph v. Coastal Auto Sales, Inc., supra, 184 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1450, the Court finds that
Moving Defendant has not waived the right to compel arbitration. 
 
Issue No. 4: Unconscionability
            Plaintiff
contends that the Motion should be denied because the Arbitration Agreement is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. The reply brief does not address
Plaintiff’s arguments as to unconscionability. 
 
            “California
courts analyze unconscionability as having a procedural and a substantive
element.”  (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1329.) “[B]oth elements must be present before a contract or
contract provision is rendered unenforceable on grounds of
unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) The doctrine of unconscionability
refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties
together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other
party.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109,
1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive components, “the former
focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter
on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.) Although both components
of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement,
they need not be present in the same degree. (Armendariz v. Found Health
Psychcare Servs., Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves. [Citations.] In other words, the more substantively
unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) “The party resisting arbitration
bears the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.) 
 
“‘Procedural unconscionability’
concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances
of the parties at that time.¿ It focuses on the factors of oppression and
surprise. The oppression component arises from an inequality of bargaining
power of the parties to the contract and an absence of real negotiation or a
meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The component of surprise
arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281.)          ¿ 
 
Substantive unconscionability focuses
on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are “so one sided as to
“’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc., supra,
70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.)  The California Supreme Court in Armendariz
set forth five minimum requirements in requiring that arbitration
agreements in the employer-employee context must provide for: (1) neutral
arbitrators; (2) more than minimal discovery; (3) a written award; (4) all
types of relief that would otherwise be available in court; and (5) no
additional costs for the employee beyond what the employee would incur if he or
she were bringing the claim in court.  (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 702, 712-713.)   
 
            Procedural
Unconscionability
            The
procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a
contract of adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it. (Little v. Auto Steigler, Inc. (2003) 29
Cal.4th 1064, 1071.) 
 
Initially, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s reliance on Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 899 is inapposite. While the Sanchez court did find that the
arbitration agreement at issue in such case was procedurally unconscionable,
such finding was premised on plaintiff Sanchez submitting a declaration
opposing the motion to compel arbitration. (Sanchez, supra, 61
Cal.4th 899, 909.) While the RISC at issue here is pre-printed, Plaintiff has
not presented a declaration in opposition to the Motion as to her lack of
opportunity to negotiate its terms. Moreover, the Arbitration Agreement is not
hidden in prolix as it is bolded and sufficiently set forth on page 5 of the
RISC. Additionally, Plaintiff’s citation to Little, supra, 29
Cal.4th 1064 is also inapposite. 
 
Plaintiff has not made any showing of
oppression or surprise to warrant a finding of procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff
has not presented any evidence that the RISC was presented to her on a “take it
or leave it basis,” with no opportunity for negotiation of its terms. Plaintiff
had the burden to show unconscionability by a preponderance of the evidence
pursuant to Banner Entertainment,
Inc. v. Superior Court, supra,
62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357. The declaration of Mr. Babbitt submitted in
opposition to the Motion does not allow Plaintiff to meet such burden. The
declaration of Mr. Babbitt states no facts evidencing procedural unconscionability.

 
The Court therefore finds that the
Arbitration Agreement is not procedurally unconscionable. Due to Plaintiff’s
failure to make a showing of procedural unconscionability, the Court need not
address the issue of substantive unconscionability. 
 
Issue No. 5: Appointment of JAMS
            Plaintiff
requests, if the Court is inclined to grant the Motion, that the Court use CCP
§ 1281.6 so that this matter can be arbitrated with JAMS.
 
            California
Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1281.6 provides that in the absence of
an agreed method to appoint an arbitrator, or if the agreed method fails or for
any reason cannot be followed, the court, on petition of a party to the
arbitration, shall appoint the arbitrator. 
 
            Here,
the Arbitration Agreement states that arbitration will occur either before the
American Arbitration Association (AAA) or National Arbitration and Mediation
(NAM). There is no indication that Moving Defendant has refused to agree to
mediate before JAMS. Irrespective of such fact, the Arbitration Agreement gives
the parties a choice to arbitrate before AAA or NAM. Plaintiff is essentially
asking the Court for prospective relief when Moving Defendant has not given any
indication that it will not arbitrate before JAMS. 
 
Issue No. 6: Compelling Defendant MBUSA to Arbitration

            Plaintiff
asserts that if the Motion is granted, the Court should not include Defendant
MBUSA in the order granting the Motion. Moving Defendant argues in its reply
that Defendant MBUSA should not be precluded from arbitration.
 
            The
Court agrees with Plaintiff. This Court has previously denied Defendant MBUSA’s
motion to compel arbitration without prejudice. Defendant MBUSA did not join in
the instant motion and is not a moving party. Defendant MBUSA has not shown a
basis to compel arbitration.
            
The Court therefore GRANTS the
Motion. The Court orders Plaintiff’s claims against Moving Defendant to be
compelled to arbitration pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement in the RISC. The
Court STAYS this action pending the completion of arbitration between Plaintiff
and Moving Defendant. (CCP § 1281.4.)  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        
    Dated this 24th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



