  Case Number:  19STCV45806    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  56 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAL BIEN BAR, LLC.  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RVCC INTERSECT, LLC, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV45806
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT
 
Date: 
  May 24, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: August 26, 2024



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants
RVCC Intersect, LLC, Reserve Vault, LLC, Christopher L. Adams, and Nicolo James
Rusconi (collectively “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiff Mal Bien Bar, LLC (“Plaintiff”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and
reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of a dispute over money that Defendants allegedly
owed to Plaintiff under a promissory note (the “Promissory Note”).  The
currently operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleges: (1) breach of
promissory note; (2) breach of oral contract; and (3) conversion. 
 
On
June 9, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment on the
grounds that Plaintiff is not the real party in interest with respect to the
claims it purports to assert, nor has Plaintiff alleged having received any
assignment from the real party in interest. The lender named in the Promissory Note
is an entity called “Mal Bien, LLC,” whereas Plaintiff is “Mal Bien Bar, LLC.”  On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
opposition.  On May 16, 2024, Defendants
filed their reply.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            None. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of the
operative FAC filed on or about December 31, 2019.  Plaintiff requests the Court take judicial
notice of a printout of the business search function from the official website
for the Secretary of State for the State of California for “mal bien.” 
 
Judicial
notice may be taken of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any
court of record of the United States of any state of the United States,”
“[o]fficial acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy. (Evid. Code, § 452, subds.
(c), (d) and (h).)  The requests for judicial notice filed
by Defendants and Plaintiff are GRANTED as to the existence of the documents
but not to the truth of the matters stated therein.  (Scott v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 743, 752-54.)
 
DISCUSSION
“Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)  “[A] party may not defeat summary judgment by
means of declarations or affidavits which contradict that party’s deposition
testimony or sworn discovery responses.” 
(Minish v. Hanuman Fellowship (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 437, 459; see also
D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 25.)  A plaintiff cannot “rely upon the allegations
or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(2).)  “[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he or she is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 828.)  Once the moving party has met its burden, the
burden then shifts to the non-moving party to show that there is a triable
issue as to any material fact.  (Id. at 849.)  With respect to a motion for summary judgment
“the moving party’s affidavits are strictly construed while those of the
opposing party are liberally construed.” 
(Walker v. Blue Cross of
California (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 985, 990.)  With respect to a motion
for summary judgment “if it is not set forth in the separate statement, it does
not exist.”  (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 313.)  
 
“A
defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the causes of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  By
contradicting prior discovery responses, a party cannot create a triable issue
of material fact.  (Whitmire v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078,
1087-1090.)  The trial court “give[s]
great weight to admissions made in discovery and disregard[s] contradictory and
self-serving affidavits of the party.”  (Id. at 1087.)  “Summary adjudication motions are
procedurally identical to summary judgment motions.”  (Serri
v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 859.)  “To be entitled to judgment as a matter of
law, the moving party must show by admissible evidence that the action has no
merit or that there is no defense.”  (Id.) 
“[T]he moving defendant may (through factually vague discovery responses
or otherwise) point to the absence of evidence to support the plaintiff’s case.
 When that is done, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to present evidence showing there is a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 472,
482.)  “When that is done, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to present evidence showing there is a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Id.)  “If the plaintiff is
unable to meet her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case,
all other facts are rendered immaterial.” 
(Id.)  
 
“[S]ummary
judgment law explicitly recognizes deposition transcripts are admissible . . .
and decisional authority upholds their use to shift the burden of proof and
grant such a motion.”  (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
733, 749.)  California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 437c(e)
says that “[S]ummary judgment may denied in the discretion of the court if the
only proof of a material fact offered in support of the summary judgment is an
affidavit or declaration made by an individual who was the sole witness to that
fact; or if a material fact is an individual’s state of mind, or lack thereof,
and that fact is sought to be established solely by the individual’s
affirmation thereof.”  In connection with
a motion for summary judgment “the burden does not shift to the plaintiff
unless the moving defendant first meets its burden of showing that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of its cause of action.”  (Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London v. Superior Court (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th
952, 956.)  “Under [the court’s] holding
in Leslie . . . this initial burden
can be met by the presentation of factually vague discovery responses or
otherwise –but we know of no case suggesting that section 437c permits the
moving defendant to meet its initial burden without any showing at all.”  (Id.)

 
Real
Party in Interest 
            Defendants move
for summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiff is not the real party in
interest with respect to the claims it purports to assert, nor has Plaintiff
alleged having received any assignment from the real party in interest.  The lender named in the underlying Promissory
Note is an entity called “Mal Bien, LLC,” but Plaintiff is “Mal Bien Bar,
LLC.”  
            
 “Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 367.)  A plaintiff lacks standing to sue
if, for example, it is not a real party in interest.  (The Rossdale
Group, LLC v. Walton (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 936, 945.) 
             
In
support of Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff is not the real party in
interest and has no standing to bring this action, Defendants set forth that
the Promissory Note whereby Defendant RVCC Intersect, LLC borrowed funds
specified the lender’s name three separate times as “Mal Bien, LLC,” which is
not Plaintiff (Mal Bien Bar, LLC).  (RJN
Ex. 1 (FAC); Ex. A (Promissory Note).) 
Further, Plaintiff has not alleged that Mal Bien, LLC ever assigned its
claim(s) based on the promissory note to Plaintiff; rather, Plaintiff states
there has been no assignment.  (RJN Ex. 1
(FAC ¶ 34).) 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have satisfied their initial
burden of showing that the breach of promissory note cause of action has no
merit by showing that Plaintiff is not the real party in interest.  The FAC, however, asserts two additional
claims that are not rooted in the Promissory Note—breach of oral contract and
conversion.  Defendants have failed to
satisfy their initial burden as to these claims.  The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists with respect to the Promissory Note.

 
While
Plaintiff does not dispute that there has been no assignment, Plaintiff argues
there are triable issues of material fact regarding the intent of the parties
to the Promissory Note.  In support,
Plaintiff sets forth in the separate statement that Defendants prepared the Promissory
Note with the incorrect “Lender” name and created a mistake and ambiguity in
the note.  (Separate
Statement, pp. 2-4, UMF Nos. 1-4.)  There
may be an additional issue as to whether the Promissory Note should be reformed
to reflect the proper party rather than there needing to be an assignment to
Plaintiff, since it is unclear whether the allegedly proper party to the
Promissory Note is itself a legal entity.
 
The
Court finds that the foregoing is sufficient to establish triable issues of
material fact.  California courts hold that
ambiguities in written agreements are construed against their drafters.  (Civ. Code §1654.)  Further, “[t]he question as to the intent of
the parties to an. . . ambiguous agreement that does not clearly express
their intention is one of fact.”  (Lewis
Food Co. v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1962) 207 Cal.App.2d 515, 524-525.)    
 
            The Court therefore DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment in full. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
         
Dated this 24th day of May 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 