  Case Number:  20STCV26276    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Monday, September 30,
2024
CASE
NUMBER:                   20STCV26276
CASE
NAME:                        Debbie Han, et al v. Joshua Hess, et al. 
MOVING
PARTY:                 Defendants Joshua
Hess and Rebecca Hess
OPPOSING
PARTY:             Plaintiffs Debby Han
and Sun H. Ju
TRIAL
DATE:                        28 January
2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Second Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        20 August 2024 & 06
September 2024
REPLY:                                  None
filed. 
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’
demurrer to the seventh cause of action based on insufficient facts is
overruled. Defendants’
motion to strike is granted without leave to amend. The Court schedules a Case
Management Conference for October 11, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendants to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 14, 2020, Debby Han and Sun H. Ju (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Joshua Hess aka Jost Hess (“Joshua”);
Rebecca Baxter Hess (“Rebecca”); and Does 1 to 50. 
 
The Complaint alleged six causes of action: (1) Abate
Private Nuisance and for Damages; (2) Abate Private Nuisance and For Damages
(Change in Grade Adjoining Land Causing Soil, and Debs Deposit on Plaintiff’s
Property); (2) Injunctive Relief and Damages for Removal of Lateral Support;
(4) Restrain Adjoining Owner from Activity that Affects Property Wall; (5)
Willful Trespass to Private Property; and (6) Negligent Trespass to Private
Property. 
 
On September 10, 2020, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Joshua and Rebecca Hess filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs for (1)
Quiet Title; (2) Civil Battery; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On January 26, 2024, with leave of court, Plaintiffs
filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges 10 causes of action:
(1) Abatement of Private Nuisance and Damages; (2) Abatement of Private
Nuisance and Damages (Change in Grade of Adjoining Land Causing Water, Rain,
Soil, and Debris Deposits on Plaintiffs’ Property); (3) Injunctive Relief and
Damages for Removal of Lateral Support; (4) Restrain Adjoining Owner from
Activity that Affects Party Wall; (5) Willful Trespass to Private Property; (6)
Negligent Trespasses to Private Property; (7) Fraud and Deceit; (8) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (9) Quiet Title by Adverse Possession; and (10) Quiet Title
by Easement by Prescription. 
 
On February 26, 2024, Defendant Rebecca
Hess (“Rebecca”) filed a
demurrer with a motion to strike the FAC. Plaintiffs filed opposing papers. The
demurrer to the entire FAC for uncertainty was overruled but sustained with 30
days leave to amend for the seventh cause of action for fraud and deceit,
eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, ninth cause of action
for quiet title by adverse possession, and tenth cause of action for quiet title
by easement by prescription. Rebecca’s motion to strike was granted with 30
days leave to amend. 
 
Defendant Joshua Hess also filed a demurrer with a motion
to strike. The demurrer to the entire FAC for uncertainty was overruled but
sustained with 30 days leave to amend for the same causes of action as
Rebecca’s. Defendant Joshua’s motion to strike punitive damages was denied as
to Paragraphs 54, 63, 88, and the Prayer for Punitive Damages. The motion to
strike punitive damages from the seventh cause of action was granted with leave
to amend. Additionally, Defendant Joshua’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’ request
for attorney’s fees was granted with leave to amend.
 
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC alleges 9 causes of action: (1) Abatement of
Private Nuisance and Damages; (2) Abatement of Private Nuisance and Damages
(Change in Grade of Adjoining Land Causing Water, Rain, Soil, and Debris
Deposits on Plaintiffs’ Property); (3) Injunctive Relief and Damages for
Removal of Lateral Support; (4) Restrain Adjoining Owner from Activity that
Affects Party Wall; (5) Willful Trespass to Private Property; (6) Negligent
Trespasses to Private Property; (7) Fraud and Deceit; (8) Negligent
Misrepresentation; and (9) Quiet Title by Adverse Possession.
 
On July 11, 2024, and July 26, 2024, Defendants Joshua
and Rebecca Hess (collectively “Defendants”) filed a demurrer and a motion to
strike the SAC. Plaintiffs filed opposing papers. The matter is now before the
court. 
 
discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are
apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court
may take judicial notice. (CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege
facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
thereof. (CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion
or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2)
strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, §
436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is
reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted
to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿“It is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a
reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by
amendment.” (Ross
v. Creel Printing & Publ'g Co. (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 736, 748.)
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Summary
of Allegations in SAC
 
Plaintiffs are husband and wife who reside in 1828
Preston Ave., Los Angeles, CA (the       
“Property”). (SAC ¶¶ 1, 2.) Defendants Joshua Hess (“Joshua”) and
Rebecca Baxter (“Rebecca”)  are the
co-owners of 1822 Preston Avenue, Los Angeles, CA (the “Adjoining Property”). (Id.
¶ 3.) This action stems from construction activities by Defendants that
resulted in noise complaints and wood debris coming over and depositing on
Plaintiffs’ Property, including taking down sections of the existing wooden
fence between the properties. (Id. ¶ 8.) 
            
On January 29, 2020, Defendant Joshua discussed with
Plaintiffs whether they could consent to him replacing the existing old wood
between the Property and the Adjoining property with a new fence paid for by
Defendant Joshua. (Id. ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs consented with the following
conditions: (1) that the fence be placed in the same location as the existing
fence; and (2) that the fence would not affect the concrete foundation for the
wooden fence and any other items located on the Property. (Id. ¶¶ 9, 96,
103.) Defendant Joshua represented that he agreed with the conditions and would
install the fence accordingly. (Id. ¶ 9.) Furthermore, Defendant Rebecca
testified at her deposition that she ratified all of Joshua’s conduct. (Id.
¶ 9.) 
 
On June 17, 2020, Plaintiff Debby Han saw Joshua remove
about six feet of the existing wooden fence and demolish and remove a
stabilizing vertical post on the Property to drill into the Property. (Id.
¶ 12.) Plaintiffs allege that the use of power tools, including a jackhammer
and power grinder were used to dig a ditch on the Property to break down and
damage the exposed base of the concrete foundation for the wooden fence, and
remove the stabilizing vertical post on Plaintiff’s property. (Id. ¶
12.) Despite Plaintiffs’ request that the Defendants cease their activities and
stop entering onto Plaintiffs’ property, Defendant Joshua refused and continued
with the destructive excavation activities. (Id. ¶¶ 14, 16.) 
 
On June 18, 2020, Defendant Joshua provided evidence from
a land survey showing that the fences between the properties and “some existing
cement work” that provided a foundation for the wooded fence encroached on the
Adjoining Property by six inches. (Id. ¶¶ 15, 17.) Plaintiffs assert that
the survey shows a block of concrete but no fence and most of the concrete
block wall is on the Property, including the area on which Defendant Joshua was
trespassing and excavating. (Id. ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs maintain that because
the survey fails to note the existence of a wooden fence, it fails to show any
fence or cement work encroaching on the Adjoining Property. (Id. ¶ 19.) 
 
From June to July 2020, Defendant Joshua continued to
remove portions of the wooden fence between the properties and resumed power
drilling and jackhammering into the cement and concrete on the Adjoining
Property. (Id. ¶¶ 23, 25, 26.) Plaintiffs further maintain that
Defendants failed to provide the required legal notices for their activities
per Civil Code §§ 832 (excavation) and 841 (fences). (Id. ¶ 27, 38.) 
 
B.        Seventh
Cause of Action – Fraud and Deceit 
 
To plead a cause of action for fraud, Plaintiff must
plead facts showing the following elements: (1) misrepresentation, (2)
knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to defraud, (4) justifiable reliance, and (5)
resulting damage. (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal. App. 4th 170, 184.)
In Lazar v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court addressed the
requirement that “fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.) The reason for this is that a serious accusation like fraud requires
specific facts of how and where it occurred, rather than a “vague but artful
pleading of fraud simply to get a foot in the courtroom door.” (Hall v.
Dep't of Adoptions (1975) 47 Cal. App. 3d 898, 904.)
 
Defendants demur to the seventh cause of action on the
basis that it is not pled with sufficient factual specificity.
 
The SAC alleges that the misrepresentation occurred when
Defendant Joshua informed Plaintiffs of his plan to replace the existing old
wooden fence between the properties. (SAC ¶¶ 9, 96.) Plaintiffs agreed to allow
Joshua to do so, conditioned on the new fence being placed in the same location
as the existing fence and not affecting the concrete foundation for the wooden
fence, the stabilizing vertical wooden post, and any other part of the
Property, including items located thereon. (SAC ¶¶ 9, 96.) Additionally, the
SAC alleges that Defendant Rebecca testified at her deposition that she agreed
with and ratified all of Joshua’s conduct regarding this agreement. (SAC ¶¶ 9,
96.)
 
The SAC further alleges that Defendants entered into this
agreement to replace the fence with knowledge of its falsity, as Defendant
Joshua stated his plan to place the new fence 8 inches into the Property,
removed the stabilizing vertical post, and damaged the exposed base of the
concrete foundation. (SAC ¶¶ 11, 12, 97, 98.) The agreement was a pretext to obtain
Plaintiffs’ consent to build a new fence on the Property. (SAC ¶¶ 97, 98.) Had
Plaintiffs known of the falsity, they would not have agreed to allow Joshua to
move forward with the construction plans. (SAC ¶ 99.) Instead, Plaintiffs
relied on Defendants’ representations, resulting in continued damage to the
Property. (SAC ¶¶ 99, 100.)
 
The court concludes that each of the elements for the
fraud cause of action has been pled with the requisite specificity. Exceptions exist
that mitigate the rigor of the rule requiring specific pleading of fraud, such
as when the facts lie in the knowledge of the opposite party. (Committee On
Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217.) Taking the allegations in the SAC as true, facts exist in the SAC to
illustrate that Defendants knew the representations about building the fence
were false and took advantage of their falsity to obtain Plaintiffs’ consent to
proceed with the construction in a manner Plaintiffs did not assent to. The SAC
further alleges that Plaintiffs would not have assented to the agreement to
replace the fence had they known the Defendants’ true plan, thus showing
justifiable reliance also. 
 
The SAC, therefore, alleges sufficient specific facts to
support a claim for fraud. Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of
action is overruled. 
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike attorneys’ fees as alleged in
the following paragraphs of the SAC:
 
Prayer:



Paragraph
      5 for the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action: “reasonable
      attorney fees under the doctrine of “tort of another” incurred in this
      action;”
Paragraph
      3 for the fourth and seventh causes of action: “reasonable attorney fees
      under the doctrine of “tort of another” incurred in this action;”
Paragraph
      4 for the sixth cause of action: “reasonable attorney fees under the
      doctrine of “tort of another” incurred in this action;”
Paragraph
      2 for the eighth and ninth causes of action: “reasonable attorney fees
      under the doctrine of “tort of another” incurred in this action;”


 
 
A plaintiff cannot recover attorneys’ fees in
the absence of either a contractual or statutory provision authorizing their
recovery. (CCP, § 1021.) Here, Plaintiffs rely on the “tort of another” theory
to recover attorney’s fees as an exception to that rule. (Rest., Torts (1939) §
914; Prentice v. N. Am. Title Guar. Corp., Alameda Div. (1963) 59 Cal.
2d 618, 620.). The “tort of another” doctrine is applicable only when a person,
who through the tort of a third party, has been required to act in the protection
of his interests by bringing or defending an action against a third person. (Prentice,
at p. 620.) The tort of another doctrine “prohibits the allowance of attorney
fees against a defendant in an ordinary two-party lawsuit.” (Id. at p.
621.)
 
Plaintiffs’ opposition to
the motion references the cross-complaint’s contention that the fence lies on
the Adjoining Property and the undisputed fact that the previous owner of the
Adjoining Property, Mr. Gilchrist, erected the fence before Defendants’
purchase, as evidence of a third-party tort. (See Cross-Complaint ¶¶
16-20.) However, Plaintiffs do not explain how a previous owner of a property
placing a fence on his property is a tort against the current owner of that
same property. Without this connection in their reasoning, there is no “tort of
another” requiring Plaintiffs to bring this action against Defendants. In other
words, this action is between two parties, rather than involving the tort of a
third. 
 
Further, Plaintiffs have
failed to persuade the court that the complaint can be amended to cure this
defect. It is unclear how adding Mr. Gilchrist as a defendant to this action
will cure the defect in their prayer for attorneys’ fees, given that Plaintiffs
have not explained how Mr. Gilchrist is a tortfeasor. In addition, Plaintiffs
cite no contract or statute entitling them to recover attorneys’ fees. 
 
The court concludes that
Plaintiffs are not entitled to recover attorneys’ fees under the “tort of
another” doctrine. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is granted without
leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of
action based on insufficient facts is overruled. 
Defendants’
motion to strike is granted without leave to amend. The Court schedules a Case 
Management
Conference for October 11, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendants to give notice.
 
 


