 Case Number:  21STCV37735    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s
Counsel Martin R. Berman.
Trial Setting Conference
OSC re Dismissal for Failure to File Proof of Service
 
Tentative
The motion to be relieved is granted.
Additional rulings are set forth
below.
Background
October 12, 2021, Plaintiff Jacob Jacobson, a
minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Phallon Fleck, filed his complaint
against Los Angeles Unified School District and Does 1 to 25 for  General Negligence and Premises Liability causes
of action arising from a tripping incident occurring on October 24, 2019.
On March 14, 2024, Martin R. Berman (“Counsel”) filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff Jacob Jacobson, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, Phallon Fleck. No opposition has been filed. 
On April 17, 2024, the Court continued this
matter as Guardian Ad Litem needed to find new counsel to continue in this
matter. 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration, and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Counsel has confirmed Plaintiff’s last known address by sending
documents to Plaintiff’s Guardian Ad Litem’s email address. 
Counsel has
shown good cause for the requested relief. 
All substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
In addition, the Court notes that Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel for a minor
child, appearing through a Guardian Ad Litem. An attorney must appear on behalf
of the minor or person lacking legal capacity to make decisions. A non-attorney
appointed as guardian ad litem cannot act in pro per as doing so would
constitute the unauthorized practice of law (Bus. & Professions Code § 6125;
see  J.W. v. Superior Court (1993)
17 Cal.App.4th 958, 965.)
NOTICE TO
GUARDIAN AD LITEM: IF THE GUARDIAN AD LITEM WISHES TO CONTINUE TO PROCEED WITH
THIS LAWSUIT, THE GUARDIAN AD LITEM WILL NEED TO HIRE NEW COUNSEL.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the motion to be relieved as counsel. 
The order is effective upon filing with the Court a proof of service
showing service of the signed order (not just the minute order) on the client (here,
the guardian ad litem).
In light of this
order, the Court sets trial on or after October 15, 2024, to give the guardian
ad litem sufficient time to retain new counsel and prepare for trial (or to
seek a further continuance) if the guardian ad litem wishes to continue to
proceed with the lawsuit.
The Court
continues the OSC re Dismissal for Failure to File Proof of Service to the date
of trial.
The Court
directs the Judicial Assistant to correct the proposed Order, submitted by
counsel on March 14, 2024, to reflect the new dates of trial and upcoming
hearings or proceedings as set by the Court.
Moving counsel
to give notice.