 Case Number:  23SMCV00817    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Karissa Delaunay v. K & H
Care, LLC, et al. 



Case No.:


22SMCV00817       


Complaint Filed:


2-24-23           




Hearing Date:


9-28-23 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


7


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None Set



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
AND STAY PROCEEDING
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant K & H Care, LLC
and Joes Hernandez
RESP.
PARTY:         None as of 9-19-23 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
K & H Care, LLC and Joes Hernandez’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED. The action is stayed pursuant to CCP §1281.4 pending completion of
arbitration.  Defendant presents an
applicable arbitration agreement, the dispute falls within the scope of the
arbitration provision, and the agreement is not unconscionable.
 
I.               
Defendant establishes the existence of an
applicable arbitration agreement 
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement. (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.”  CCP §1281.2. 
 
“The trial court may resolve
motions to compel arbitration in summary proceedings, in which the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.  The party seeking arbitration
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and the party opposing arbitration bears the
burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability by a preponderance of
the evidence.”  Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75
Cal.App.5th 748, 718 (trial court properly decided plaintiff’s challenge to
arbitration agreement despite delegation clause where plaintiff attacked
contract formation and very existence of agreement to
arbitrate).   
 
“Strong public policies favor
enforcement of agreements to arbitrate disputes. A judge must order arbitration
of any dispute that the judge determines is within the parties' arbitration
agreement, unless the right to compel arbitration has been waived or the
agreement is otherwise unenforceable.” ([§ 3.38] Determining Petition to Compel
Arbitration:, Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ. Proc. Before Trial § 3.38.)
 
            Defendant
submits a copy of the employment agreement between Defendant and Plaintiff.
(Macdonald Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Defendant moves to compel arbitration pursuant
to ¶ 10 on page six of the employment agreement which states:
 
ARBITRATION OF
DISPUTES. Any controversy of claim arising out of or related to this
Agreement, or the breach thereof, except for unlawful detainer actions or any
dispute that arises from Employer’s actions to regain possession of the
premises, or action brought for wages before the California Labor Commissioner
or related to workers compensation, shall be settled in binding arbitration in
accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, which may be
found at www.adr.org. The Employer will pay the costs for the arbitrator and
hearing room. Any arbitration award rendered must be in writing, setting forth
the reasons for the decision and may be entered as a judgment in any court of
competent jurisdiction. Arbitration decisions/awards issued pursuant to this
Agreement are final and binding. 
 
Notwithstanding the
foregoing, claims within the monetary limits of the small claims court shall be
litigated in such court at the request of either party, so long as both
disputes limit their right of recovery to the jurisdiction of the small claims
court. 
 
NOTE: By
initialing in the space below, you are agreeing to have any dispute arising out
of this Agreement decided by neutral arbitration as provided by law and you are
giving up any rights you may possess to have the dispute litigated in a court
or jury trial. The parties shall be allowed to conduct relevant discovery as is
allowed under the California Code of Civil Procedure in arbitration matters and
as further under the National Rules for Resolution of Employment Disputes. 
 
If you refuse to
submit to arbitration after agreeing to this provision, you may be compelled to
arbitrate under the authority of applicable law. You agree that your agreement
to this arbitration is voluntary.
 
(Macdonald Decl., ¶
7, Ex. A.)
 
            The
arbitration provision is signed by both Defendant and Plaintiff. (Macdonald
Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6, Ex. A.) The arbitration provision is broad and applies to “[a]ny
controversy of claim arising out of or related to this Agreement, or the breach
thereof, except for unlawful detainer actions or any dispute that arises from
Employer’s actions to regain possession of the premises, or action brought for
wages before the California Labor Commissioner or related to workers
compensation” (Id.)  The language
of the arbitration clause is considered “very broad.” (See Larkin v.
Williams, Woolley, Cogswell, Nakazawa & Russell (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
227, 230 (arbitration clause applicable to “any controversy or claim arising
out of or relating to any provision” of partnership agreement was “very broad”
and applied to plaintiff’s complaint for breach of partnership agreement,
dissolution and accounting); Ramos v. Supr. Ct. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
1042, 1052 (arbitration clauses using the phrase “arising out of or related to”
are construed more broadly than arbitration clauses only using “arising from”
or “arising out of an agreement”); Berman v. Dean Witter & Co., Inc. 
(1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 999, 1003 (arbitration agreement applying to “any
controversy arising out of or relating to this contract” was “certainly broad
enough to embrace tort as well as contractual liabilities so long as they have
their roots in the relationship between the parties which was created by the
contract”).   
 
            The broad
arbitration clause applies to the Plaintiff’s complaint. Plaintiff’s causes of
action arise out of or are related to the employment agreement, and do not meet
the exceptions provided in the arbitration agreement including unlawful
detainer, regaining possession of the premises, an action for wages, or related
to workers compensation. (Motion, pg. 6–7; Macdonald Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. B.) Plaintiffs
claims are listed as labor code violations, but broad arbitration agreements
apply to these types of claims as well. (See Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017)
11 Cal.App.5th 782, 786–87 [“Even though [Plaintiff’s] claims are styled as
Labor Code violations, the arbitration agreement applies.”].) Furthermore, Plaintiff
initialed the arbitration provision right underneath the bold words at the
bottom of the arbitration provision. (Macdonald Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. A.). 
 
            Defendant
presents an applicable arbitration agreement and satisfies the initial burden
as the party moving to compel arbitration.  The burden is therefore on
Plaintiff to establish a defense to the arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence.   
 
II.            
Dispute falls under the scope of the arbitration
agreement.
 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not
dispute the existence if an arbitration agreement, so the analysis moves to
whether the dispute falls within the scope of the arbitration agreement—the
Court finds that it does. Plaintiff cites to Grey v. American Management
Services (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th incorrectly, as that case is
distinguishable from the case at bar. In Grey, the Court discussed an
arbitration agreement with a clause that only stated “disputes arising out of
an alleged breach,” is more limited than an agreement which includes “arising
out of or related to.” (Grey v. American Management Services (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 803, 809.) Here, the arbitration clause specifically states “[a]ny
controversy of (sic) claim arising out of or related to this Agreement . . .
shall be settled by binding arbitration . . .” (Macdonald Decl., ¶ 7.) Furthermore,
the exceptions in the arbitration agreement are not related to the specific
issues here. The complaint arises out of the Employment contract and is not
related to “regaining possession of the premises,” an “action brought for wages
before the Labor Commissioner,” and so forth. (Macdonald Decl.,¶ 7.)
 
III.          
The Agreement is Not Unconscionable
 
Plaintiff asserts that the
Agreement should not be enforced because it is unconscionable. California
courts analyze unconscionability as having a procedural and a substantive
element.” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.
App. 4th 1329.) “[B]oth elements must be present before a contract or contract
provision is rendered unenforceable on grounds of unconscionability.” (Id.)
The doctrine of unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on
the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are
unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v.
Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and
substantive components, “the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Id.) 
 
Although both components of
unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement, they
need not be present in the same degree. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) “Essentially a
sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.
[Citations.] In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract
term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to
the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Id.)
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev.
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.) 
 
a.    
Procedural Unconscionability 
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion given to
him  “take it or leave it basis” without
opportunity for meaningful negotiation. However, an arbitration agreement
offered on a “take it or leave it basis” does not render the agreement
unenforceable. (See Legaltree v. Luce, Forward Hamilton & Scripps
(1999) Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127 [“the cases uniformly agree that a compulsory
predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it
is required as a condition of employment or offered on a “take it or leave it”
basis.”].)
 
Moreover, the fact Plaintiff felt
he had to sign the Agreement as a condition of employment does not render the
agreement unenforceable. Courts have upheld arbitration agreements, even if
they were a contract of adhesion, “[w]hen, as here, there is no other
indication of oppression or surprise, ‘the degree of procedural
unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement will be
enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is high.’” (Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695,
704 [internal citation omitted].) 
 
Plaintiff’s cite to Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 99 fn.
6 is not correctly stated. The specific cite Plaintiff refers to states by
agreeing to arbitrate a statutory claim, “a party does not forgo the
substantive rights . . . it only submits to their resolution in an arbitral,
rather than a judicial, forum.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 99 [quoting  Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. v. Soler Chrysler–Plymouth (1985) 473 U.S. 614, 628].) This cite
does not state that one cannot arbitrate statutory claims, it only states one
does not lose their substantive rights under an arbitral setting. Here, the
arbitration clause provides for arbitration including all the necessary
substantive rights afforded to a person in a judicial forum. (Macdonald Decl.,
¶ 7.) Therefore, the Court does not find the Agreement to be procedurally
unconscionable. 
 
b.    
Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Substantive unconscionability
focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are “so one sided
as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.)  “To reiterate, we assess
unconscionability with a sliding scale approach. [Citation] In light of the
high degree of procedural unconscionability, even a low degree of substantive
unconscionability could render the arbitration agreement unconscionable.” (Carmona
v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.)
Plaintiff uses the same argument
for procedural unconscionability citing to Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc.. but as explained above, this cite is not relevant
to the argument Plaintiff is making. Further, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration clause is substantively unconscionable “because it is not bilateral,”
and “affords greater rights to the stronger party.” (Motion, pg. 8.)  However, Defendant points out that the
agreement “expressly states that the ‘Employer will pay for costs of the
arbitrator,’” plus both parties “shall be allowed to conduct the relevant
discovery as is allowed under California Code of Civil Procedure in arbitration
matters.” (Opposition, pg. 7.) The agreement is not one sided as to shock the
conscience since Defendants are paying for the arbitrator, and the agreement
allows for all the proper procedures for both parties. Thus, there is very
little to no substantive unconscionability. 
 
            Thus, the
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed pursuant to CCP
§1281.4 pending completion of arbitration.
 


 