  Case Number:  22VECV00766    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Yang v. Abudalu, et al.   



Case No.:


22VECV00766        


Complaint Filed:


6-7-22 




Hearing Date:


9-28-23 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


6


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


Not set



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Rand Shalabi,
Elvis A. Ortiz-Wayland, and Housekey Real Estate Corp 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Henry Shin
Yang 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendants Rand Shalabi, Elvis A.
Ortiz-Wayland, and Housekey Real Estate Corp’s Demurrer to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th,
5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th causes of action of the second amended
complain are SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. Defendants
Motion to Strike punitive damages from the Complaint is DENIED, without
prejudice.  
 
 
The sole basis of Defendant’s
demurrer is Plaintiffs admission in paragraph 22 of the SAC which states:
 
“22.   Although defendant Raad Shalabi held himself
out as plaintiff’s agent, plaintiff has never met with either Elvis A. Ortiz
Wayland or Raad Shalabi regarding the transaction, nor has plaintiff entered
any agency agreement with either Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland or Raad Shalabi as
required by law. As such, plaintiff never consented
to dual agency representation during the leasing transaction between
Plaintiff and defendants Abudalu.” [Emphasis added.]
 
Defendants, however, fail to articulate how this admission
proves, as a matter of law, that Plaintiff has not alleged any claim.  Defendant does not identify any element of
any cause of action that is defeated by this admission.  Nor does Defendant otherwise explain how this
admission is a complete defense to Plaintiff’s claims.  Defendant’s demurrers on the grounds that the
Plaintiff’s claims fail to state a cause of action, therefore, are OVERRULLED.
 
            Defendant’s
demurs on the grounds of uncertainty however do have merit. The factual
allegations regarding the existence, or lack thereof, of any contractual
relationship between Plaintiff and the Broker Defendants are inconsistent. Compare
the following allegations from Plaintiff’s SAC: 
 
“17.  On or about March 1, 2019, ABUDALU leased the
property to Plaintiff under a “Rent-to- own” and a month-to-month rental
agreement at $9, 900.00 per month. A copy of the lease is attached as exhibit
2.” (Paragraph 40 of the that lease, signed by Plaintiff, identifies Re/Max
as the dual agent of both the landlord [Abudalu] and tenant [Plaintiff].)
 
“20.  The agent who represented plaintiff and
the Defendants ABUDALU in the rental transaction is Defendant Raad Shalabi. Defendant
Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland is the broker supervising the sales and transactions
made by Raad Shalabi.” [Emphasis added.]
 
“22.   Although defendant Raad Shalabi held himself
out as plaintiff’s agent, plaintiff has never met with either Elvis A. Ortiz
Wayland or Raad Shalabi regarding the transaction, nor has plaintiff entered
any agency agreement with either Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland or Raad Shalabi as
required by law. As such, plaintiff never consented to dual agency
representation during the leasing transaction between Plaintiff and defendants
Abudalu.” [Emphasis added.]
 
“44. On or about March 1, 2019,
Plaintiff entered into a written lease with Defendants Abudalu. Defendants
Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland and Raad Shalabi were the agents for plaintiff
and also for defendants Abudalu in the Rent-to-own transaction.” [Emphasis
added.]
 
“54. Despite the foregoing,
Defendants Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland and Housekey Real Estate Corp and DOES 1
through 20, negligently, recklessly and carelessly permitted Defendant Raad
Shalabi and Defendants DOES 1 through 20, to perform real estate transactions,
to wit: acted as a dual agent to plaintiff and Defendants ABUDALU without
plaintiff’s consent or provide adequate protection to plaintiff in the real
estate transaction and thereby caused to suffer severe economic and emotional
damages.” [Emphasis added.]
 
“58. Plaintiff is informed and
believes and, on that basis, thereon alleges that defendants Elvis A. Ortiz
Wayland and Raad Shalabi conspired with Defendants Abudalu to front as his
agents without disclosure in violation of California Civil Code Sections
2079.1, 2979.14, 2079.16. (a) and (b). [Emphasis added.] Plaintiff repeats this
same allegation in paragraph 72 of Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for unfair
competition (B&P §17200.]
 
“78.  As a result of the contractual
relationship which existed between plaintiff and Defendants, defendants
have an implied duty to act in good faith toward plaintiff and deal fairly with
plaintiff which includes that:….” [Emphasis added.]
 
“84.  As plaintiff’s agents and pursuant to
Civil Code Sections 2079.14, 2079.16 and 2079.17, Defendants Raad Shalabi,
Elvis A. Ortiz Wayland and Housekey Real Estate Corp owed Plaintiff a fiduciary
duty, including the following:….” [Emphasis added.]
 
From these inconsistencies, it is uncertain what duty if any
the Broker defendants owed to Plaintiff, and whether such duty was created by
agreement or imposed by law.  Defendant’s
special demurrer to each cause of action against the Broker Defendant’s is
SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.