  Case Number:  21STCV43583    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Claremont Unified School District’s Motion
for Summary Judgment, and in the Alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
of Issues
Respondent: Plaintiff John SJ
Doe
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Claremont Unified School District’s Motion
for Summary Judgment, and in the Alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
of Issues is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing.
BACKGROUND
This
action arises from the alleged sexual abuse of a high school student by school staff.
Defendant Brandy Wilborn was a teacher’s aide employed by Defendant Claremont
Unified School District (CUSD) at Claremont High School. Plaintiff John SJ Doe
was a student at Claremont High School. From December 2014 to May 2015, Wilborn
sexually assaulted, abused, molested, and harassed Doe. Wilborn was then
arrested in 2015 and pled no contest to unlawful sexual intercourse with a
minor.
On
November 29, 2021, Doe filed a complaint for damages against CUSD, Wilborn, and
Does 1 through 50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED) against all defendants; (2) negligence
against CUSD and Does 1-50; (3) negligent supervision against CUSD and Does
1-50; (4) negligent retention/hiring against CUSD and Does 1-50; (5) negligent
failure to train, warn, or educate against CUSD and Does 1-50; (6) breach of
fiduciary duty against all defendants; (7) constructive fraud pursuant to Civil
Code, section 1573 against all defendants; (8) sexual harassment pursuant to
Civil Code, section 51.9 against all defendants; (9) sexual harassment and
abuse in the educational setting pursuant to Education Code, section 220
against CUSD and Does 1-50; (10) sexual battery against Wilborn; (11) gender
violence pursuant to Civil Code, section 52.4 against Wilborn; and (12)
violation of Penal Code, section 647.6, subdivision (a)(1) against Wilborn. On
June 17, 2022, the court sustained CUSD’s demurrer to the Complaint.
On
September 6, 2022, Doe filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
defendants alleging the same causes of action. On February 9, 2023, the court
sustained CUSD’s demurrer to the FAC.
On
March 1, 2023, Doe filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same
defendants alleging the same causes of action. On July 24, 2023, the court
sustained and overruled CUSD’s demurrer to the SAC in part without leave to
amend.
On
June 11, 2024, CUSD filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion
is set for October 4, 2024, along with a post-mediation status conference/trial
setting conference.
ANALYSIS
CUSD
moves for summary judgment or adjudication on the following grounds: (1) CUSD
has immunity pursuant to Education Code section 44808; (2) Doe cannot establish
the elements of negligence including duty, foreseeability, and causation; and (3)
Doe’s IIED and sexual harassment claims fail because Doe cannot establish CUSD had
actual knowledge of Wilborn’s misconduct. For the following reasons, the court CONTINUES the hearing on their motion.
A
party seeking summary judgment or adjudication must support their motion with “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that
the moving party contends are undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(1).) “The separate statement should include only material facts and not any
facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1350, subd. (d)(2).) “‘Material facts’ are facts that relate to the
cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that
is the subject of the motion and that could make a difference in the
disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350, subd. (a)(2).)
Furthermore, there is a distinction between material facts and evidence cited
in support of those material facts. (See Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004)
121 Cal.App.4th 95, 105-106 (Reeves).)
A
party’s failure to provide a code-compliant separate statement itself is
grounds for denial of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); see Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ. Proc. Before
Trial, § 13.18, 13.20.) In fact, “[t]rial courts should not hesitate to deny
summary judgment motions when the moving party fails to draft a compliant
separate statement – and an inappropriate separate statement includes an overly
long document that includes multiple nonmaterial facts in violation of the
Rules of Court.” (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 865, 876.)
In
the present case, CUSD has submitted a 92-page separate statement in support of
their motion for summary judgment. While such a lengthy separate statement may
very well be appropriate if the complexity or number of material facts at issue
demand it, but that is not the case here. Instead, CUSD’s separate statement is
replete with facts that are not material to the issues in their motion. For
example, CUSD includes numerous facts that repeat Doe’s allegations in the Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”). (Defendant’s Separate Statement (DSS), ¶ 1-6.) Although
referencing the pleadings may be proper if CUSD is not disputing certain facts,
CUSD’s separate statement here is not stating facts but rather summarizing Doe’s
allegations. This is not an appropriate use of a separate statement.
The
court also notes that the same fifty-six (56) purported facts are repeated for
each of CUSD’s seven issues without regards to whether those facts are relevant
to each issue. Furthermore, CUSD repeatedly summarizes Wilborn or Doe’s
statements or testimony. (DSS, ¶ 9-11, 13, 19, 21-26, 28-34.) While such
testimony may be used as evidence to support the establishment of fact, the
fact that Wilborn or Doe said something or perceived something itself is not a
material fact. (Reeves, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 105-106 [noting
what a party perceived or said in a deposition is itself not a material fact but
rather possible evidence of such a fact].)
Accordingly,
the court DENIES CUSD’s motion based on their failure to properly craft a code-compliant
separate statement.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the court
CONTINUES CUSD’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication to a date
to be determined at the hearing.
The court intends to permit CUSD an opportunity to file a supplemental separate statement which clearly identifies material
facts and supporting evidence.  The court
likewise intends to permit Plaintiff an opportunity to file a response to CUSD’s
supplemental separate statement.  The
court will set a briefing schedule at the hearing.