 Case Number:  23STCV14984    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Doctors Medical Center of Modesto, Inc., et al.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV14984




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Local Initiative Health Authority for Los Angeles County dba L.A. Care
  Health Plan,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 1, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Local Initiative Health
Authority for Los Angeles County dba L.A. Care Health Plan
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Doctors Medical Center of
Modesto, Inc., Lakewood Regional Medical Center, Inc. and Los Alamitos Medical
Center, Inc.
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Doctors
Medical Center of Modesto, Inc., Lakewood Regional Medical Center, Inc. and Los
Alamitos Medical Center, Inc. sued Defendant Local Initiative Health Authority
for Los Angeles County dba L.A. Care Health Plan, asserting causes of action
for breach of implied in law contract, quantum meruit, negligence and breach of
written contract.
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to
pay Plaintiff the reasonable value of medical services provided to Defendant’s
health plan enrollees.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First, Second, and Third Causes of
Action
 
Defendant demurs to the first through third
causes of action for breach of implied-in-law contract and breach of
implied-in-fact contract on the ground that Plaintiffs may only allege a claim
for quantum meruit against Defendants under County of Santa Clara v.
Superior Court (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1034.
 
In County of Santa Clara, hospitals
sued the County for failure to pay the reasonable value of medical services
provided to the County’s health plan enrollees, asserting causes of action for
quantum meruit and breach of implied contract.
The California Supreme Court held that
the Government Claims Act does not immunize a public entity from a plaintiff’s
quantum meruit and breach of implied contract claims to
enforce a statutory duty of reimbursement. (Id. at 1045-56.) 
 
Defendant argues that the holding in County of Santa Clara
implies that quantum meruit is the only allowable cause of action against a
public entity for failure to comply with the Knox-Keene Act, and the other
claims for breach of implied contract are duplicative of the quantum meruit
claim. Defendant also asserts the holding “did not revive” the hospital’s
claims for breach of implied-in-fact contract, distinguishing this claim from
breach of implied-in-law contract. There is no language in the opinion that supports
either of these assertions. The Court did not limit permissible claims to
quantum meruit, and the Court drew no meaningful distinction between
implied-in-law and implied-in-fact contract claims. 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendant breached its statutory and contractual
duties to Plaintiffs by failing to pay for services rendered by Plaintiffs.
This is sufficient to state causes of action for breach of implied contract. Plaintiffs
may allege alternative theories of liability.
 
The demurrer to the first through third causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth and sixth causes of action for failure to
discharge a mandatory duty per Gov. Code § 815.6 on the grounds that it is contradictory to the cause of action
for quantum meruit and Defendant does not have a mandatory duty under the Knox-Keene
Act. 
 
As stated, Plaintiffs may allege
alternative theories of liability, even if they “conflict” in some ways. 
 
The California Supreme Court did not
address the applicability of Gov. Code § 815.6 in County of Santa Clara. Defendant
cites no cases, other than the reversed Court of Appeal opinion preceding County
of Santa Clara, that show Defendant does not have a mandatory duty under
the Knox-Keene Act.
 
The demurrer to the fifth and sixth
causes of action is OVERRULED.


 