 Case Number:  23STCV00608    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Roy Penuela,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV00608




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
David Notowitz, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
December 1, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants
David Notowitz; Michael Masarof; Matthew Gabler; National Center for Audio and
Video Forensics, Inc.
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Roy Penuela
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS TO THE FIRST THROUGH THIRD, SIXTH
AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. THE DEMURRER TO
THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO
STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
FILE AND SERVE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On August 28, 2023, Roy Penuela filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendants David Notowitz; Michael Masarof; Matthew Gabler;
National Center for Audio and Video Forensics, Inc., asserting causes for (1)
promissory fraud; (2) fraud and deceit; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4)
professional negligence; (5) indemnity; (6) unfair competition; and (7)
declaratory and injunctive relief. Plaintiff alleges Defendants, who advertise
as audiovisual experts, misrepresented their ability to enhance audio and
visual recordings to induce Plaintiff to disclose confidential information to
Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with
specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
 
Defendants assert Plaintiff’s causes of action for fraud fail on the
ground that they are not pleaded with the requisite specificity. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants, who advertise as audiovisual experts, misrepresented their
ability to enhance audio and visual recordings to induce Plaintiff to disclose
confidential information to Defendants. Plaintiff alleges this occurred during
a phone call on August 21, 2022. Plaintiff alleges Defendants represented they
“would truthfully inform the plaintiff of ‘what is possible—and what is not
possible’ and do an ‘assessment of the evidence and determine what we can and
can’t do to enhance and give you the results you need’ of video and audio
recordings submitted to the defendants for their enhancement.” Finally, Plaintiff
complains that Defendant misrepresented the results of the assessment, which
showed the video could not be adequately enhanced for Plaintiff’s "legal
matters.” 
 
Plaintiff has failed to allege fraud. The statements cited by Plaintiff
in the complaint show Defendants represented that they would assess the
recordings to determine if they could be enhanced. Though the FAC alleges
Defendants also misrepresented their ability to enhance the recordings, there
are no statements showing Defendants promised they would enhance the
recordings. Additionally, Plaintiff’s damages are unclear, stating “the plaintiff became potentially liable for
payment for the defendants’ claimed enhancement.” 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the first through third causes of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
B. Professional
Negligence
 
Defendants demur to the cause of action for professional negligence on
the ground that it is duplicative of the other claims and because Defendants
did not owe Plaintiff an “increased duty of care.” These are not grounds for
demurrer. Plaintiff may allege alternative theories of liability and
Defendants’ conclusion that they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care does not
defeat the cause of action.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. UCL
Violations and Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiff’s causes of action for UCL violations and declaratory relief
are derivative of Plaintiff’s fraud claims. As discussed, Plaintiff has failed
to allege fraud.
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
 
D. Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayers for punitive damages and
attorney’s fees. As the Court sustained the demurrer to the fraud claims, the
motion to strike punitive damages is moot. The Court declines to strike the
prayer for attorney fees as a basis for them may appear later in the action.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.


 