  Case Number:  23STCP02375    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition, 
  


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
City of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 1, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Bifurcate and Expedite Review
Moving Party: Respondent City of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety
Coalition
 
T/R:     THE PARTIES ARE ASKED TO ADDRESS THE
QUESTIONS BELOW AT ARGUMENT.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
Respondent City of Los Angeles moves
for an order bifurcating trial in this action between the first through fourth
causes of action and the fifth cause of action, under CCP §§ 598, 1048. 
 
Respondent asserts that the first
through fourth causes of action address Respondent’s CEQA compliance and other
statutory obligations with respect to the specific property at issue in this
case, while the fifth cause of action addresses Respondent’s broader pattern
and practice of statutory compliance. Respondent argues that bifurcation will
promote judicial economy because the first through fourth causes of action will
be tried based on the administrative record only and the fifth cause of action
requires extensive discovery.
 
In opposition, Petitioner asserts that bifurcation
will not conserve time or resources because there are significant overlapping
issues of fact and law. Petitioner argues that the patterns and practices of Respondent
are essential parts of the causes of action relating to the specific property. 
 
The Court requires additional
information. The parties are asked to address at argument:
 
·        
Whether the
administrative record has been completed.
·        
If a party seeks
discovery concerning causes of action 1-4, whether such discovery is permitted,
and if so what discovery is needed.
·        
What discovery
is necessary for cause of action 5, and how long it will take.


 