 Case Number:  23STCV00624    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Aleksandr Gruzman,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV00624




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
David Notowitz, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December
1, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants
David Notowitz; Michael Masarof; Matthew Gabler; National Center for Audio and
Video Forensics, Inc.
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Aleksandr Gruzman
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO
STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish
to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On July 6, 2023, Aleksandr Gruzman filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendants David Notowitz; Michael Masarof; Matthew Gabler;
National Center for Audio and Video Forensics, Inc., asserting causes for (1)
fraud by concealment; (2) promissory fraud; (3) negligent misrepresentation;
(4) unfair competition; (5) declaratory and injunctive relief; (6) professional
negligence; and (7) indemnity. Plaintiff alleges Defendants, who advertise as
audiovisual experts, misrepresented their ability to enhance audio and visual
recordings. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with
specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
 
Defendants assert Plaintiff’s causes of action for fraud fail on the
ground that they are not plead with the requisite specificity. 
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants, who advertise as audiovisual experts,
misrepresented their ability to enhance audio and visual recordings. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants were retained to enhance the recordings, charging $9,090.00
for their services, but those services were not competent or timely. Plaintiff
alleges the results of Defendants’ work was grainy and blurry and a magnifying
glass was better at enhancing the video than Defendants. Defendants also could
not answer the question of what tools were used to enhance the video. Plaintiff
alleges he was sued in small claims by Defendants because of their
misrepresentations. This is sufficient to allege causes of action for fraud.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the first through third causes of action is
OVERRULED.
 
B. UCL
Violations and Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiff’s causes of action for UCL violations and declaratory relief
are derivative of Plaintiff’s fraud claims. As stated, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged fraud.
 
The demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
C. Professional
Negligence
 
Defendants demur to the cause of action for professional negligence on
the ground that it is duplicative of the other claims and because Defendants
did not owe Plaintiff an “increased duty of care.” These are not grounds for
demurrer. Plaintiff may allege alternative theories of liability and
Defendants’ conclusion that they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care does not
defeat the cause of action.
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants move to strike the prayers for punitive damages and
attorney’s fees. As Plaintiff has stated causes of action for fraud, Plaintiff
has alleged entitlement to punitive damages. The Court declines to strike the
prayer for attorney fees as a basis for them may appear later in the action. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 