  Case Number:  22STCV15408    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   January
19, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Irene Przebinda v. Windsor Gardens
Convalescent Hospital, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV15408 (Lead Case);
Consolidated with Case No. 22STCV15487

 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
John T. Liu, M.D.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Irene Przebinda
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Summary
Adjudication as to the Second Cause of Action;
2.      Summary
Adjudication as to the Sixth Cause of Action;
3.      Summary
Adjudication as to the claim for punitive damages.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Summary
Adjudication as to the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED;
2.      Summary
Adjudication as to the Sixth Cause of Action is GRANTED;
3.      Summary
Adjudication as to the claim for punitive damages is GRANTED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 9, 2022, Plaintiff Irene Przebinda (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Windsor Gardens Convalescent Hospital,
Inc., S & F Management Company, LLC, Doe Management Company 1-10, John T.
Liu, M.D., Doe Physicians 1-50, SNP Pharmacy, LLC dba Skilled Nursing Pharmacy,
Doe Pharmacy 1-50, and Doe Pharmacists 1-50 (“Defendants.”) The complaint
alleges one cause of action for general negligence. The complaint alleges that
Defendants caused the death of Plaintiff’s Mother, Sophia Gross, by abusing and
neglecting her.  
 
On
May 10, 2022 Plaintiff Sophia Gross, deceased, by and through her Successor in
Interest, Irene Przebinda (“Decedent”) filed a Complaint against the same
defendants with six causes of action for: (1) Elder Abuse/Neglect Against
Windsor Gardens, (2) Elder Abuse/Neglect Against Dr. Liu, (3) Elder
Abuse/Neglect Against SNP, (4) Negligence, (5) Violation of Resident’s Rights,
and (6) Elder Abuse/Financial (Wrongful Advantage).
  
On August 11, 2022, Defendants filed a Notice of Related
Case as to Case No. 22STCV15487. 
 
On August 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint.   
 
On September 8, 2022, Defendant Windsor Gardens
Convalescent Hospital, Inc., S & F Management Company, LLC, filed an
Answer.  
 
On September 12, 2022, Defendant Liu filed an Answer.  
 
On September 16, 2022, Defendant SNP Pharmacy filed an
Answer.  
 
On December 6, 2022, Defendant SNP Pharmacy filed a Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
 
On January 23, 2023 Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal
as to defendant SNP Pharmacy, LLC dba Skilled Nursing Pharmacy only.
 
On February 16, 2023, Defendant Windsor Gardens Convalescent
Hospital, Inc. and S&F Management Company, LLC filed an Answer.
 
On March 14, 2023, Defendant Liu filed an Answer.
 
On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal
as to Greystone Monticello Commercial Capital, LLC and Greystone Monticello
Funding SH063, LLC only.
 
On May 9, 2023, Defendant Jameel M. Jourani filed an Answer.
 
On August 25, 2023, Defendant Windsor Gardens Convalescent
Hospital, Inc. filed Notice of Bankruptcy. 
 
On October 4, 2023, the court lifted the bankruptcy stay as
to all defendants except Windsor Gardens Convalescent Hospital, Inc.
 
On October 31, 2023, Defendant Liu (Liu) filed the instant
motion for summary adjudication. On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.[1]
On January 10, 2024, Liu filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843). In analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294).  Thus, summary judgment or summary adjudication is granted
when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers
and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (CCP §
437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741). 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520).
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389). A motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must be denied where the moving party's evidence does not prove
all material facts, even in the absence of any opposition or where the
opposition is weak. (See Leyva
v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475; Salesguevara v.
Wyeth Labs., Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.   
 
Once the moving party has met
the burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show via specific
facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or
a defense thereto. (CCP § 437c(o)(2)).  When a party cannot establish
an essential element or defense, a court must grant a motion for summary
adjudication. (CCP § 437c(o)(1)-(2)). 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court need not rule on these objections because they are not material
to the disposition of the motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Second Cause of
Action – Elder Abuse/Neglect
 
Liu contends that summary adjudication is appropriate
because he only rendered medical care to decedent, not custodial care.
Plaintiff argues that Liu did not meet his initial burden because he did not
provide an outside expert declaration and that Liu was responsible for
decedent’s custodial care as an in-patient resident.[2]
Liu replies that standard of care evidence pertains to the medical negligence
claim, not to the elder abuse claim. As such, Liu contends that no outside
expert opinion is needed to establish whether his conduct constitutes elder
abuse under the Elder Abuse Act.[3]

 
California's Elder Abuse Act (“Act”), Welfare &
Institutions Code section 15657, requires a plaintiff to show at trial, by
clear and convincing evidence, that: (1) the defendant is liable for physical
abuse, neglect, or financial abuse of an elderly or dependent adult; and (2)
that such abuse or neglect was done with malice, oppression, fraud, or
recklessness. Welfare & Institutions Code section 15610.57 limits liability
to those persons who have the care or
custody of an elder or dependent adult.” (italics added.) 
 
In Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group,
Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148 (Winn), the
decedent’s heirs alleged that the decedent was provided substandard medical
care by health care providers who treated decedent on an outpatient basis. The defendants’
demurrer was sustained without leave to amend. Thereafter, the Court of Appeal
reversed the trial court’s order. The California Supreme Court granted review
to consider the meaning of the phrase “care or custody” in the context of
liability for health care providers under the Act. Ultimately, the Supreme
Court concluded that “the Act does not apply unless
the defendant health care provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial
relationship, involving ongoing responsibility for one or more basic needs,
with the elder patient. It is the nature of the elder or dependent adult's
relationship with the defendant—not the defendant's professional standing—that
makes the defendant potentially liable for neglect.” (Id. at p. 152, emphasis added.) Recognizing
that there is a significant difference between ordinary professional negligence
committed by medical providers and reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or evil
acts perpetrated by caretakers or custodians of elders or dependent adults, the
Court rejected the suggestion that intermittent,
outpatient medical treatment elevated a provider to a caretaker or custodian.
To be sure, the Court stressed that the Act “contemplates . . . the existence of a
robust caretaking or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party
has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or
more of an elder's basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult
would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” (Id. at. pp. 157-158.) 
 
There have only
been three published decisions involving the Act that have applied Winn’s holding. In the first decision,
an inpatient acute care facility admitted a 78-year-old patient who later died.
(Stewart v. Superior Court (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 87, 91 (Stewart).) The
Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s order granting defendant’s motion
for summary adjudication. (Id. at p.
87.) The Stewart panel found that the
defendant medical provider assumed a custodial relationship because the
decedent could not care for basic needs as evidenced by: (1) displaying
confusion and sleepiness at the time of admission; (2) communicating by
grunting and requiring a feeding tube after admission; and (3) being denied the
right of autonomy in making medical decisions by the facility. (Id. at pp. 102-104.) In the second
decision, while the defendant
medical provider provided
in-home medical treatment to the decedent, the decedent was, otherwise,
entirely dependent on her granddaughter for her basic needs such as dressing,
feeding, furnishing medications, assisting her to the restroom and transporting
to medical appointments. (Oroville
Hospital v. Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 382, 388, 392 (Oroville
Hospital).)
The Court of Appeal
found that since the in-home nursing services’ provider’s treatment of decedent
did not “give rise to a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship,”
defendant was entitled to summary adjudication on the Elder Abuse cause of
action.  (Id. at p. 405.) In the third and most recent decision, decedent presented himself to a medical center’s emergency
room where first an EKG was ordered and then an MRI. (Kruthanooch 83 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1117 (Kruthanooch).) During the MRI, the decedent sustained second degree
burns because, “apparently the EKG electrode was not removed.” (Ibid.) Thereafter, the decedent was
admitted as an inpatient for two days, following which, he received seven weeks
of outpatient treatment. (Id. at pp.
1117-1118.) While the decedent’s estate prevailed at trial, the jury awarded no
damages. (Id. at p. 1120.)  After judgment was entered, the trial court
granted a JNOV finding that the relationship between the defendant medical
provider and the decedent was nothing more than that of a patient and provider
and did not rise to the level of a custodial or caretaking relationship.  (Ibid.)
The Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s ruling concluding that there was
no substantial evidence that the
caretaking relationship between [the defendant and the decedent] was robust and
ongoing” but rather was only of “limited duration and [defendant’s] attention
to [decedent’s] basic needs was incidental to the circumscribed medical care it
provided.” (Id. at p. 1128.) Notably,
the Court reiterated that, following Winn,
“the Act does not apply
unless the caretaking relationship is ‘robust’ and the measure of
responsibility assumed by the caretaker is ‘significant.’ ” (Id. at p. 1129.) The Court also
emphasized that “the ‘substantial relationship’ must involve ‘ongoing responsibility for
one or more basic needs . . . with the elder patient,’ that ‘a party with only
circumscribed, intermittent, or episodic engagement’ is not among those who has
‘care or custody’ of a vulnerable person, and ‘that the distinctive
relationship contemplated by the Act entails more than casual or limited
interactions.’ ” (Ibid, citations
omitted.) Finally, the Court rejected the
notion that an admission into an inpatient treatment facility automatically
meets the substantial relationship test. 
“We are not
persuaded that a hospital necessarily assumes a robust caretaking or custodial
relationship and ongoing responsibility for the basic needs of every person
admitted.”  (Id. at p. 1131.)[4] 
 
Here, Liu met his initial burden of a prima facie showing
that there was no custodial or caretaking relationship with decedent. Notably, just
as in Kruthanooch
and Stewart,[5] there
is no evidence that during this inpatient medical treatment, Liu’s “attention
to [decedent’s] basic needs was [anything more than] `incidental to the
circumscribed medical care [he] provided.” (Kruthanooch,
supra, at p. 1128.) First, Liu and decedent had a prior
patient-physician relationship that preceded her care at Windsor Gardens. (Liu
Decl. ¶ 5.) Second, once decedent was at Windsor
Gardens, Liu performed monthly physical exams of decedent, reviewed
medications, reviewed medical issues, reviewed complaints, and charted findings
from those visits.[6]
(Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts “SSUMF” Nos. 5, 13.) Third, Liu
also issued medical orders, such as orders to check decedent’s TSH levels. (See,
e.g., SSUMF Nos. 20, 22.) Liu expected his orders to be followed. (Liu Depo,
285:25-286:16.) Finally, Liu was not affiliated with, or paid by, Windsor
Gardens. (SSUMF No. 1.) Taken together, while the skilled nursing facility may
have acted as a care custodian for decedent, it is questionable that Liu, was a
care custodian. Therefore, Liu met his prima facie burden in defeating the
substantial caretaking or custodial relationship element for Elder Abuse under
the Act.
 
Plaintiff failed to meet her
burden demonstrating a triable issue of material fact on this issue. On the contrary, Plaintiff’s only offered evidence concerns
Liu’s compliance with the applicable standard of care.[7]
This is consistent with only one reasonable inference, Liu formed a health care
provider relationship with decedent, not a caretaking or custodial
relationship. Accordingly, from these undisputed facts, this court
concludes, as a matter of law, that Liu did not assume ongoing responsibilities for one or more basic
needs of decedent evincing a robust caretaking or custodial relationship with a
significant level of responsibility that elevated their “circumscribed,
intermittent , or episodic engagement” (Winn,
supra, at p. 152) with decedent into
a substantial relationship warranting liability under the Act.
 
Thus, the court GRANTS Liu’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action – Financial Elder Abuse
 
Liu contends that he did not violate Welfare &
Institution Code § 15610.30 because he did not take money for a wrongful use or
with intent to defraud or by undue influence and that decedent did not have a
property interest in the Medicare payments to Liu. Plaintiff argues that she now
needs to pay a Medicare lien for the privilege of being injured by Liu while he
retains an economic benefit (i.e., being paid by Medicare). However, Plaintiff
provides no authority interpreting the Welfare and Institutions Code sections
in favor of this argument. Liu reiterates that he only billed for services
rendered. 
 
Under the Elder Abuse Act: “‘“Financial abuse’ of an
elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the
following: 
1.      Takes …
obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder … for [1] a wrongful
use or [2] with intent to defraud, or both. 
2.      Assists in taking … obtaining, or
retaining real or personal property of an elder … for [1] a wrongful use or [2]
with intent to defraud, or both. 
3.      Takes …
obtains, or retains, or assists in taking … obtaining, or retaining, real or
personal property of an elder … by undue
influence, as defined in Section 15610.70. 
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a) [emphasis
added]; see also Mahan v. Charles W. Chan
Ins. Agency, Inc. 2017 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 856-867 (Mahan).)  
 
“The
purpose of the [Elder Abuse Act] is essentially to protect a particularly
vulnerable portion of the population from gross mistreatment in the form of
abuse and custodial neglect.” (Delaney v.
Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 33.) 
 
Here, Liu met his
initial burden showing no triable material facts as to Plaintiff’s financial
abuse claim. In Mahan, the Court
found wrongful use because the defendants maneuvered the subject transaction to
get $100,000 commission they would not otherwise receive.[8]
(Mahan, supra, at p. 865.) Here, in
contrast, there was no “wrongful use” because Liu did not bill Medicare for
services he did not perform. (SSUMF Nos. 29, 31.) In other words, Liu billed
Medicare for services rendered. Therefore, Liu met his initial burden and the
burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of fact. Plaintiff
has not done so. (See, e.g., SSUMF No. 27.)
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Liu’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the sixth cause of action.
 
Claim for Punitive
Damages
 
“To obtain the remedies provided by the Act pursuant to
section 15657, ‘a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show
reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct.’ [citation]
Recklessness refers ‘to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple
negligence, which has been described as a deliberate disregard of the high
degree of probability that an injury will occur.’ Oppression, fraud and malice
involve intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious
nature.” (Sababin v. Superior Court
(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 81, 88–89 (quoting from Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 23).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is tied to the second and sixth causes
of action. 
 
In
light of the above ruling, the court GRANTS Liu’s motion for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Summary Adjudication as to the
Second Cause of Action is GRANTED;
2.Summary Adjudication as to the
Sixth Cause of Action is GRANTED;
3.Summary Adjudication as to the
claim for punitive damages is GRANTED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              January 19, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


