 Case Number:  23STCV18344    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARCIA D. BRASHEARS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
AMERICAN GUARD
  SERVICES, INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV18344
  Hearing Date:  May 8, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant american guard services,
  inc.’s motion to compel arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff Marcia
D. Brashears filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
American Guard Services, Inc. and AGS Private Security. 
            On April 11, 2024, Defendant
American Guard Services, Inc. filed the instant motion to compel arbitration.
Plaintiff filed her opposition on April 24, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on
May 1, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Proving an Agreement to Arbitrate
“As to the existence of an agreement, [the
moving party bears] the ultimate burden of proof, but the court [is] obliged to
resolve the dispute using a three-step burden-shifting process.” (Iyere v.
Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)   
a. Defendant’s Initial Burden
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) “At this step,
a movant need not ‘follow the normal procedures of document authentication’ and
need only ‘allege the existence of an agreement and support the allegation.’” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.)  
Here, Defendant relies on the declaration
of its prior HR Manager, Tamra Curtis. (See Qualls Decl., Ex. 3 (Curtis
Decl.).) Ms. Curtis avers that Plaintiff electronically signed the arbitration
agreement on April 1, 2019. (Curtis Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. A.) The arbitration
agreement covers “any dispute between an employee and the Company . . . [that] arises
from or relates to employment.” (Ibid.) The last page of the agreement
contains an electronic signature bearing Plaintiff’s name. (Ibid.)
Therefore, Defendant has satisfied its initial burden. 
b. Plaintiff’s Burden to Raise a Factual
Dispute
“If the movant bears its initial burden,
the burden shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual
dispute as to the agreement's existence—in this instance, by disputing the
authenticity of their signatures. To bear this burden, the arbitration
opponent must offer admissible evidence creating a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of their signatures. The opponent need not prove that
his or her purported signature is not authentic, but must submit sufficient
evidence to create a factual dispute and shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature.” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
Plaintiff denies signing an arbitration
agreement, averring that she only signed an employment application which did
not include an arbitration agreement. (Brashears Decl. ¶¶ 4, 10.) Plaintiff
specifically denies signing the document attached as Exhibit A to the Curtis
declaration. (Id., ¶¶ 11, 14, 15.) Therefore, Plaintiff has presented
evidence to raise a factual dispute. 
c. Defendant’s Ultimate Burden
An electronic signature has the same legal
effect as a handwritten signature. (Civ. Code, § 1633.7(a).) An “electronic
signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of the person. The act
of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing of the efficacy
of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which the
electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Id., §
1633.9(a).) “[T]he burden of authenticating an electronic signature is not
great.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
844.) 
In Ruiz, the declarant generally
averred that employees must use a unique ID and password to log in and sign the
employee acknowledgment form but failed to explain how she was able to infer
that the signature on the specific document at issue was “the act of” the
plaintiff. (Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.) The declarant “did
not explain that an electronic signature in the name of ‘Ernesto Zamora Ruiz’
could only have been placed on the 2011 agreement (i.e., on the employee
acknowledgement form) by a person using Ruiz's ‘unique login ID and password.’”
(Ibid.) In light of the plaintiff’s failure to recall signing the
agreement, the court found that the declarant’s generic averments did not
satisfy the defendant’s evidentiary burden. 
 
By contrast, Ms. Curtis avers in her
declaration that the agreement was provided to Plaintiff upon onboarding and
that “Plaintiff’s signature could have only been placed on the signature page
of the Agreement by Plaintiff herself using a unique password known only to
Plaintiff.” (Curtis Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Therefore, unlike the declarant in Ruiz,
Ms. Curtis has “explain[ed] how, or upon what basis, she inferred that the
electronic signature on the . . . agreement was ‘the act of’” Plaintiff. (See
Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.) This is not an “unsupported
assertion” like the one found in Ruiz. (Ibid.) As the HR Manager,
Ms. Curtis had custody of personnel files and avers that Exhibit A is a true
and correct copy of the arbitration agreement presented to Plaintiff. (Curtis
Decl. ¶ 6; see Unifund CCR, LLC v. Dear (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1,
8 [“A qualified witness need not be the custodian, the person who created the
record, or one with personal knowledge in order for a business record to be
admissible under the hearsay exception”].) 
Furthermore, due to the burden-shifting
nature of the analysis, a defendant employer may present evidence in reply to
satisfy its ultimate burden. (See Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755
[at the initial step, the moving party need only allege the existence of an
arbitration agreement, but need not authenticate the document]; Ruiz, supra,
232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844 [employer submitted a reply declaration in
support of its motion to compel arbitration]; Espejo v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1062 [defendant’s
supplemental declaration satisfied the Ruiz standard].) Here,
Defendant’s Compliance Coordinator, who designed the employee dashboard,
explains how a unique password is created for each employee and why only that
employee has access to his or her account. (Wafaa Decl. ¶ 2.) Mr. Wafaa further
avers that the electronic signature bearing Plaintiff’s name could only have
been generated by a person using Plaintiff’s unique ID and password. (Id.,
¶ 3.) This is the type of information missing in Ruiz that would have
authenticated the employee’s signature. Therefore, the Court finds that
Defendant has satisfied its burden of proving an agreement to arbitrate by a
preponderance of the evidence. 
II.
Waiver of FEHA Claims
            “[W]ith respect to statutory
discrimination claims, there is no presumption of arbitrability and the waiver
of a judicial forum must be clear and unmistakable.” (Marcario v.
County of Orange (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 397, 405.) Plaintiff argues that
she could not have knowingly waived her right to bring FEHA claims in court
because the arbitration agreement does not expressly name FEHA as one of the
covered statutes. However, Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition
that a statute must be expressly named in an arbitration agreement in order for
the agreement to cover claims arising under the statute. Here, the agreement
clearly covers any claim arising under “any federal, state or local statute,
ordinance, regulation or common law doctrine regarding or relating to
employment discrimination, terms and conditions of employment, or termination
of employment.” (Curtis Decl., Ex. A.) This constitutes a “clear and
unmistakable” intent to arbitrate statutory discrimination claims such as those
under FEHA.  
III.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it was presented as a condition of
employment and does not contain an opt-out clause. (Opp. 15:25-26:1; 18:20-17.)
However, an adhesion contract, by itself, presents only a minimal degree of
procedural unconscionability. (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations,
Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.) 
Plaintiff also argues that “[t]he
Agreement is procedurally unconscionable as it failed to provide Plaintiff
sufficient time to fully understand the implications of an arbitration
agreement, and the Agreement’s length and complexity made it so that it would
be difficult to Plaintiff to understand exactly what she rights she was waiving
and what each provision meant.” (Opp. 17:21-25.) However, the arbitration
agreement was presented as a standalone document that was clearly labeled as an
“Arbitration Policy.” (Curtis Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) The agreement is four pages
long with clearly labeled sections. The agreement is not “visually
impenetrable,” nor does it “challenge the limits of legibility.” (See OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 128.) Plaintiff provides no evidence
regarding how much time she was given to review the agreement, nor any evidence
that she was pressured to sign quickly. 
Furthermore, “[n]o law requires that
parties dealing at arm's length have a duty to explain to each other the terms
of a written contract.” (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674.) “An arbitration clause within a contract
may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read the clause.” (Mendoza
v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 777.) “[O]ne who signs
an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent to all its
terms.” (Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting &
Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.) Defendant was under no
obligation to specifically explain the terms of the agreement, and Plaintiff
cites no evidence suggesting that she was prevented from obtaining more
information on the agreement or seeking legal advice. Because Plaintiff signed
the agreement, whether she read it or recalls reading it is immaterial.    
Therefore, the Court finds a minimal
degree of procedural unconscionability. 
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.) An agreement “lacks basic
fairness and mutuality if it requires one contracting party, but not the other,
to arbitrate all claims arising out of the same transaction or occurrence or
series of transactions or occurrences.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 120.)
            1.
Arbitration Fees
Plaintiff argues that “[t]he arbitration
clause did not provide that the defendants would pay any fees for the
arbitration and thus it is unconscionable.” (Opp. 16:1-3.) However, the
agreement incorporates AAA rules, which require the employer to cover the costs
of arbitration. (Curtis Decl., Ex. A; Qualls Decl., Ex. 2, p. 33.) 
            2.
Bilaterality 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
one-sided because “the arbitration agreement provided by Defendants would seek
to have Plaintiff relinquish all her rights to bring a claim against Defendant,
while having Defendants waive no specific claims, other than a general waiver.”
(Opp. 17:1-3.) However, the agreement does not waive Plaintiff’s rights to
bring a claim. Rather, it governs the forum in which the claims are brought.
Furthermore, the agreement clearly covers “any dispute between an employee and
the Company,” including “any dispute the Company might have with a current or
former employee which arises or relates to employment.” (Curtis Decl., Ex. A.)
Therefore, the agreement applies equally to Plaintiff and Defendant. The
agreement does not exempt Defendant from its provisions, nor does it allow
Defendant to file claims in court that Plaintiff must arbitrate. 
            3.
Class Action and PAGA Waiver
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
void because it contains a class action and PAGA waiver. The agreement states:
“Any dispute covered by this Policy will be arbitrated on an individual basis,
and the parties mutually waive their right to participate in, or receive money
from, any class, collective, or representative proceeding. No dispute between
an employee and the Company may be consolidated or joined with a dispute
between any other employee and the Company, nor may an individual employee seek
to bring his/her dispute on behalf of other employees as a class or collective
action or other representative proceeding.” (Curtis Decl., Ex. A.) 
To the extent this clause is interpreted
as a wholesale waiver of class action or representative PAGA claims, it may be
severed without affecting the agreement to arbitrate on an individual basis.
(See Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 124; Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906.) Plaintiff has only brought
individual claims and is therefore bound to arbitrate those claims. Even if
Plaintiff had brought class action or representative claims, she would still
have to arbitrate her individual claims. 
4. Defendant’s
Right to Modify or Terminate the Agreement 
   
            “An
employer's unrestricted right to amend, modify, or terminate an
arbitration agreement at any time renders the agreement illusory.” (Peleg v.
Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1425, 1461, emphasis in
original.) An employer’s right to modify or terminate an arbitration agreement
is properly limited (and the contract is thereby not illusory) where the
modification or termination does not apply to claims that have already accrued.
(Id. at p. 1462.) 
            Here, the arbitration agreement
provides that Defendant may amend, modify, or terminate the arbitration policy
only with 60 days advance notice. (Curtis Decl., Ex. A.) Furthermore, “[n]o
such amendment or termination shall affect any arbitration procedure which has
already been commenced pursuant to this Policy.” (Ibid.) The clause
limits Defendant’s ability to modify or terminate the agreement to ensure that
Defendant cannot retroactively alter the terms of arbitration or absolve itself
from arbitration once a dispute arises. Therefore, the agreement is not
illusory. 
            In sum, the Court finds no
substantive unconscionability. With only a minimal degree of procedural
unconscionability and no substantive unconscionability, the contract remains
enforceable.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant American Guard Services,
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The Court hereby stays the case
in its entirety. 
            