 Case Number:  23STCV06764    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06764




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Person Most Qualified’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Brayden Medina Molina 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Target Corporation 



 
 
BACKGROUND

 
Plaintiff Brayden Medina Molina (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant
Target Corporation’s (“Defendant”) deposition of its Person Most Qualified and
to compel production of documents. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
 
The party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition
to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying
the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) If a motion is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450
(g).
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Nadine Khedry does not describe the facts
surrounding a meet and confer but provides email correspondence showing that
the parties have communicated about the issues in this deposition. (Khedry
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 3, 4.) In the future, the Court expects that the parties will
cooperate with each other in scheduling telephone conferences to attempt to
resolve their disputes.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks to depose Defendant’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) to
determine if similar incidents involving knife attacks have occurred at
Defendant’s stores. On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition, set
for January 18, 2024. (Khedry Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) The notice sought testimony
surrounding any and all records (contained in Defendant’s “Origami Risk
Application”) regarding stabbings and knife brandishings in any Target store. 
 
On January 11, 2024, Defendant objected based on unavailability, and argued
the topic was overbroad, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence, and protected by third-party privacy rights. (Id., Exh. 2.)
However, the objection also noted that Defendant would meet and confer with
Plaintiff to agree on a limited, reasonable scope. 
 
 Plaintiff asserts that
Defendant contends that prior incidents do not exist, but Plaintiff speculates
it has not conducted a diligent search. (Motion, 7.) Plaintiff also notes that
Defendant has not moved to quash the deposition notice.
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff refused to meet and confer
before filing this motion. It also argues that the notice is overbroad because
it does not contain a time limitation and applies to all of Defendant’s stores.
Defendant also contends that the law surrounding third party criminal acts limits
knowledge of similar past acts to the location in question. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to respond to his
meet and confer effort and the request is not unduly burdensome since all
records are contained in a database and depositions can be conducted via zoom. Plaintiff
also notes that Westman v. Clifton's Brookdale (1948) 89 Cal.App.2d 307,
which Defendant relies upon, does not discuss the discoverability of prior
acts. 
 
First, there appears to be no request for production of documents in
the deposition notice. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request to compel production of
documents is denied. 
 
Turning to the main issue regarding the scope of the notice, the
deposition notice is overbroad since it involves all stabbings and knife
brandishings within Target stores and without any time limitation. It does not
distinguish between incidents where someone brought in an outside knife and
where a knife was taken from a Target store display shelf. In addition,
Plaintiff does not explain why all incidents without any time limitation would
be discoverable.
 
Accordingly, the Court grants in part the motion to compel. Target is
ordered to produce a person most knowledgeable as to records contained in the
Origami Risk Application regarding stabbings and brandishings with knives taken
from a Target store at the time of the stabbing or brandishing, in any Target store
within the United States for the past five years. The Court urges the parties
to meet and confer regarding any request for production of documents to avoid
further motion practice.
 
The Court declines to award sanctions since
Plaintiff did not request any in the notice of motion, and Defendant acted with
substantial justification. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant’s Person Most Qualified’s Deposition is GRANTED in
part. Defendant’s PMQ shall appear for a deposition within 10 days. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 