 Case Number:  23STCV20665    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 



DEPARTMENT 


32 




HEARING DATE 


May 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


23STCV20665




MOTION  


Motion to Set Aside Entry
  of Default 




MOVING PARTY 


Defendant Cedar Restaurant
  Group, LLC d/b/a Yamashiro Hollywood 




OPPOSING PARTY 


Plaintiff Margarit Akopian



 
MOTION 
 
             Defendant
Cedar Restaurant Group, LLC d/b/a Yamashiro Hollywood (“Defendant”) moves
to set aside entry of default on December 20, 2023.  Plaintiff
Margarit Akopian (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), a
court “may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” In addition, a court must vacate a default or dismissal
when a motion for relief under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed timely and
accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the attorney’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)   
 
The party or the legal representative must seek such relief
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b);
see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011)
200 Ca.App.4th
712, 721 [motion for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months”]).  “The six-month limit
is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the six-month
period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
333, 340, citations omitted.)   
Defendant moves to set aside entry of default and default
judgment due to excusable neglect or mistake. Its insurance carrier, Allianz, repeatedly reached out to
Plaintiff's counsel for information, but each time, closed the file for failure
on the part of Plaintiff to respond. (Bodie Decl. ¶ 18.) Then, due to a
computer glitch, Allianz had generated two separate claims on the same matter
with conflicting information, hampering its efforts to assign this matter.
(Bodie Decl. ¶ 9; Exh. A.) In fact, this technical glitch even made the claim
files, at times, inaccessible. (Bodie Decl. ¶ 12; Exh. C.) With little
information or cooperation, assignment of defense counsel was further delayed.
(Id.) Defendant was unaware the claim was being delayed and prevented
from being timely answered. (Id.) Through genuine mistake and surprise,
Defendant had inadvertently not provided a timely response. 
First, default was entered against Defendant on
December 20, 2023.  Defendant filed the subject motion on March 12, 2024,
which was within six months of entry of default and thus, the subject motion is
timely.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).)   
Second, Defendant also filed a copy
of its proposed Answer, as Exhibit G to the declaration of counsel in support
of the motion to set aside default, as is required to seek discretionary relief
under section 473, subdivision (b).  (Code Civ. Proc., §
473(b).)   
 
Next, the
Court notes that Defendant seeks relief under the discretionary portion of
section 473, subdivision (b), as Defendant does not attribute fault to its
attorney, and therefore cannot move under the mandatory prong. The Court finds
that Defendant has made a sufficient showing of mistake, surprise or excusable
neglect in that each time its insurance carrier reached out to Plaintiff, no
response was provided, and thus the file was closed multiple times. Then, due
to a glitch, Allianz had generated two separate claims on the same matter with
conflicting information, hampering its efforts to assign this matter. “[I]t is
the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the merits whenever possible,
so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved in favor of the
application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in court and a trial
upon the merits.”  (Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt (1960) 180
Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928 (Bobbitt).)  “Even in a case where the
showing under section 473 is not strong, or where there is any doubt as to
setting aside of a default, such doubt should be resolved in favor of the
application.”  (Ibid., quoting Van Dyke v. MacMillan (1958)
162 Cal.App.2d 594, 598, italics in Bobbitt.)  “[D]uring the period
when relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public policy in
favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in
court.”  (In re Marriage of Stevenot (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 1051,
1071.)  
Further, a showing of diligence is required when
seeking discretionary relief.  (Huh v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th
1406, 1420.) Defendant provides that neither Defendant nor its carrier had any
knowledge of the default until March 5, 2024. Prior to that, its insurance
carrier was having difficulty finding the file and the case assignment to an
attorney was therefore delayed. Plaintiff’s opposition supports this argument,
as Plaintiff’s counsel concedes he provided notice of the default on Defendant
on this date. (Opp., pg. 3:7-8.) As such, the Court finds Defendant was
diligent in seeking relief.
Plaintiff does not present any
argument regarding any prejudice or demonstrate that it would suffer any
prejudice if the court were to grant the requested relief.   
 
Given the strong public policy that
favors resolving disputes on their merits, the court finds it appropriate to grant
the motion under the discretionary portion of section 473, subdivision (b) and
to set aside entry of default against Defendant Yamashiro.  (See Bobbit,
supra, 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. at p. 928.) 
            Penalties
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (c), “[w]henever the court grants relief from a
default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this
section, the court may do any of the following: (A) impose a penalty of no greater
than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party. 
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.  (C)
Grant other relief as appropriate.”  
Plaintiff seeks a penalty against Defendant. Plaintiff also
requests the imposition of monetary sanctions against Defendants but does not
provide statutory authority in support of this request.  Accordingly, the
Court finds it just to order Defendant to pay Plaintiff a penalty in the
amount of $1,000 within 30 days of this order.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to set
aside entry of default.  Defendant is ordered to pay Plaintiff a
penalty in the amount of $1,000 within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant
is ordered to provide notice of this Order and file
proof of service of such.   
 
 
 