 Case Number:  21STCV24666    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV24666




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defense Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Diego Ruiz  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
    



 
 
BACKGROUND

 
            Defendant
Diego
Ruiz (Defendant) now moves to compel Plaintiff Christina
Shores’ (“Plaintiff”) physical examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.220. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has
been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Gabriella Guthner, Defendant’s counsel, states the
following: “On April 17, 2024 Defense counsel email Plaintiff’s counsel in an
attempt to meet and confer regarding Plaintiff’s failure to attend the defense
medical examination and has not heard back.” (Guthner Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 3.)
Defendant’s counsel asserts that Plaintiff’s counsel refuses to meet and
confer. (Id. ¶ 6.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is met.     
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff alleges she suffered physical injuries due to a motor
vehicle accident caused by Defendant. (Complaint ¶ 9–10.)
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendant served a Demand for Defense
Examination on Plaintiff, setting an orthopedic examination for April 4, 2024
with Paul Kaloostian, M.D. (Guthner Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. 1.) On March 29, 2024, Defendant
attempted to confirm the exam with Plaintiff’s counsel, but no response was
provided. (Id. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff did not serve an objection and has not
responded to Defendant’s attempts to schedule the examination. Plaintiff does
not oppose this motion and has not objected that the exam will contain a diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive, or that the examination is over 75 miles from her
residence. The April 4, 2024 demand also states that no tests are intended to
be painful, protracted, or intrusive. Therefore, because Plaintiff did not
attend the April 4, 2024 exam and does not oppose this motion, the motion to
compel is granted. 
 
Defendant seeks $1,060 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel of record, representing a $200 hourly rate and the $60 filing fee. The
Court finds sanctions are warranted since Plaintiff did not respond to the
Demand. However, the amount requested is excessive given the type of motion and
the fact no opposition was filed. Therefore, the Court awards $460.00 in
sanctions (2 hours of attorney time, plus the filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s defense medical examination is GRANTED.  Plaintiff shall appear for an examination with
Dr. Kaloostian on June 4, 2024 at 4 p.m. at his office located at 960 E. Green
Street, Suite 320, Pasadena, Ca. 91106. 
 
The Court further grants monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $460.00.
Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 