  Case Number:  18STCV04392    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


18STCV04392




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Aida Sedano-Herrera




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on April 23, 2024 by Petitioner Aida Sedano-Herrera (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Ayhden Elijah Herrera, age 9. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must complete item 3b since it appears this
action was settled without a trial. 
 
In the last petition, the medical records and reports did
not show that Claimant was fully recovered. (Min. Order, 4/16/24.) The letter
dated April 17, 2024 from Nanaz Pirnia, Ph.D, from Mind Therapy Center, states
that Claimant did not return after the initial consultation. Therefore, Dr.
Pirnia assumed Claimant was recovered. If there are no other current medical
records or reports, the Court would accept a declaration from Claimant’s
parent, attesting that he is fully recovered. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 