  Case Number:  21TRCV00073    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 9, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00073
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Iman Peykar v. BMW of North America, LLC
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, Iman Peykar
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
BMW of North America, LLC
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Tax Costs
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Tax Costs GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
Plaintiff Iman Peykar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant BMW of North America, LLC (“Defendant”) on February 2, 2021. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2; and (4)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.22 – Tanner Consumer Protection Act. 
 
This case proceeded to trial, and on February 28, 2024, the
jury returned a verdict in favor of BMW on all of Plaintiff’s causes of action.
On March 14, 2024, BMW filed a Memorandum of Costs. 
 
Now,
Plaintiff has filed this Motion to Tax costs. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Motion to Tax Costs. On April 26, 2024, Defendant, BMW filed an
opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
 
“Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be
served and filed 15 days after service of the costs memorandum.  If the
cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code
of Civil Procedure section 1013.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b)(1).)  The failure to timely file a motion to tax or strike costs
constitutes a waiver of the right to object to costs, unless the Court in its
discretion grants relief under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, such as
based upon a finding of excusable neglect.  (Douglas v. Willis
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 287, 289; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(b)(3)
[“The party claiming costs and the party contesting costs may agree to extend
the time for serving and filing the cost memorandum and a motion to strike or
tax costs.  This agreement must be confirmed in writing, specify the
extended date for service, and be filed with the clerk.  In the absence of
an agreement, the court may extend the times for serving and filing the cost
memorandum or the notice of motion to strike or tax costs for a period not to
exceed 30 days.”].) 
 
A prevailing party claiming
costs must file and serve a memorandum of costs either (1) within 15 days after
the date of service of a notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk
under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5, (2) 15 days after the service of
written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or (3) within 180 days after
entry of judgment, whichever is first. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (a).) Any motion to
strike or tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of
the memorandum, plus an additional 5 days if served by mail or 2 days if served
electronically. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b)(1).) “Unless objection
is made to the entire cost memorandum, the motion to strike or tax costs must
refer to each item objected to by the same number and appear in the same order
as the corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of costs and must
state why the item is objectionable.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5,
subdivision (a), sets forth items allowable as costs.  And section 1033.5,
subdivision (b) lists the items that are not allowable as costs.  The
court has discretion to allow costs that are not barred by subdivision (b), but
are not listed under subdivision (a).  (Science Applications
International Corporation v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1095,
1103.)  If an item of costs is expressly allowed by statute and if items
appear on their face to be proper, the verified memorandum of costs is prima
facie evidence of their propriety, shifting the burden of proof to the
objecting party to show that the items are not “reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation” or “reasonable in amount.”  (Benach v.
County of L. A. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836, 855; (Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131-32 [“trial court erred in requiring additional
proof from” the party claiming costs, where the party attacking costs had the
burden]; Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broad. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
102, 116, 121 [after a prima facie showing based on verified cost memorandum,
objecting party has the burden to prove costs should be disallowed]; Ladas
v. Cal. State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773.)  But if an
item of cost does not appear proper on its face, the burden of showing that it
is reasonable and necessary shifts to the party claiming the cost.  (Nelson
v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131; Jones v. Dumrichob
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1267; but see Bach v. County of Butte (1989)
215 Cal.App.3d 294, 308 ["Only after such costs are challenged by a motion
to tax do the parties need to justify their claims by submitting documentation
of the costs they have incurred."].)Accordingly, the court must determine
whether section 1033.5 expressly allows the particular item and whether it
appears proper on its face.  (See Nelson, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at
131.)  
 
 
B.    Discussion
 
Here,
Plaintiff moves on this Motion to Tax Costs, seeking to tax Defendant’s claimed
costs by $42,661.81, which reduces the total costs by 85%.  Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s claimed
fees and costs were unnecessary, excessive, or unrecoverable as follows: 
 
1.     Item
4 (deposition costs): The Court should tax the amount of $11,8350.58 because
Defendant has not satisfied its burden of demonstrating that these claimed
costs are necessary and reasonable under section 1033.5. 
2.     Item
8 (witness fees): The Court should tax the amount of $2,500.00 because fees of
experts not ordered by the court are not allowable as costs. 
3.     Item
11 (court reporter fees as established by statute): The Court should tax the
amount of $24,200.00 because fees of court reporters are established in the
Government Code, section 69948(a): “The fee for reporting testimony and
proceedings in contested cases is fifty-five dollars ($55) a day, or any
fractional part thereof.” 
4.     Item
12 (models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits): The Court should tax
the entire amount of $2,710.92 because Defendant has not satisfied its burden
of demonstrating that these models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits
were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact. 
5.     Item
16 (other): The Court should tax the entire $1,420.31 because parking and
mileage are not recoverable, cannot be recovered by Defendant under the
Song-Beverly Act, and Defendant has not satisfied its burden of demonstrating
that these claimed costs are necessary and reasonable under section 1033.5.
 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendant’s submission of the above contains entries are not recoverable
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(a) and (c). Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has not and cannot meet its burden of proof to establish these costs
were reasonably necessary. BMW largely disagrees, so the Court will parse out
the items on a line by line basis.  
 
Item No. 4
 
            Item No. 4 seeks to recover costs
for deposition. Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s claimed deposition costs
are inflated and are unnecessary and unreasonable.  The Court agrees in part and disagrees in
part.
 
Michael
McCaffrey’s Deposition Costs
            
            Plaintiff contends that he should
not be charged with having to pay for three (3) of Michael McCaffrey’s
Defendant’s PMK deposition transcripts. Plaintiff argues that McCaffrey’s
deposition should have only taken place one time, however, he notes he was forced
to take McCaffrey’s deposition a second time in the Court’s jury room because
Defense counsel instructed McCaffery not the answer the most vital question
pertinent to Plaintiff’s case in chief – How many electric mils can the subject
vehicle obtain on battery-mode only? Further, at the second deposition,
Plaintiff asserts that McCaffrey was supposed to produce, but failed to
produce, any Service Information Bulletins, which the Court addressed and ruled
McCaffrey was to produce at the time of his deposition (which necessitated the
third deposition). Thus, Plaintiff argues he should only be responsible for
McCaffrey’s first deposition on June 8, 2023 in the amount of $374.75. Further,
Plaintiff asserts this Court should tax McCaffrey’s deposition in the amount of
$2,369.28 and be charged no more than the amount of for McCaffrey’s first
deposition on June 8, 2023. The Court tentatively GRANTS the motion to tax the
costs claimed for the second and third sessions of McCaffrey’s deposition, which
was required because of BMW’s failure to comply with its discovery obligations
until the Court granted a motion to compel. 
The Court DENIES the motion to tax the costs of the first McCaffrey deposition.
 
            
Plaintiff,
Iman Peykar’s Deposition Costs 
 
            Next, Plaintiff argues that
Plaintiff’s deposition cost in the amount of $1,500.20 is excessively high and
unreasonable. Plaintiff notes that Veritext legal Solutions charged $655.20 for
transcript services; $400 for professional attendance; $150 for logistics;
Processing & Electronics Files; and $295 for Virtual Services. Plaintiff
asserts that the costs for professional attendance, logistics, processing &
Electronic files, and virtual services are not recoverable under section
1033.5. Thus, Plaintiff has requested that his deposition cost taxes in the
amount of $845 and be charged no more than the amount of $7 for the transcript
services regularly charged by Steno for one deposition. The Court tentatively DENIES
the motion to tax the costs claimed as the amount charged is within the range
of other deposition transcripts in civil litigation since the COIV 19 pandemic
began.  
 
James
Langan’s Deposition Costs 
 
            As to James Langan’s deposition
costs, Plaintiff notes that Defendant did not submit any bills for James
Langan’s deposition costs, and thus, Plaintiff contends there is no evidence
that it did in fact pay for the deposition. Therefore, Plaintiff argues that
this deposition cost be taxed in the amount of $575 as the Defendant has not
met its burden of proof that it reasonably incurred James Langan’s deposition
costs. The Court will consider continuing the hearing on this part of the motion
pending BMW’s submission of the corroboration, i.e., invoice, for the Langen deposition
which is claimed in the Cost Bill.  
 
Joe
Grijalva’s Deposition Costs
 
            Next, Plaintiff asserts that he
should not be charged with having to pay for two of Joe Grijalva’s expert deposition
transcripts. With this deposition, like McCaffrey’s, Plaintiff asserts that Joe
Grijalva’s deposition should have only taken place one time, but that Plaintiff
was forced to take Grijalva’s deposition a second time because Defense counsel
interfered with Plaintiff’s taking of Grijalva’s deposition and did not let the
deposition finish. Plaintiff argues that this led to Defendant’s unnecessary ex
parte application to limit Grijalva’s deposition. As such, Plaintiff argues
that Grijalva’s second deposition could have been entirely avoided if Defense
counsel allowed Plaintiff to finish Grijalva’s deposition for the first time.
Further, Plaintiff argues that this Court should tax the second deposition as
there was no reason for Defendant to order expedited transcripts of the
deposition. 
 
The Court tentatively GRANTS the motion to tax the costs
claimed for the second deposition, which was required because of BMW’s
failure to comply with its discovery obligations until the Court granted a
motion to compel.  The Court DENIES the
motion to tax the  costs of the first Grijalva
deposition.
 
Thomas
Lepper’s Deposition Costs 
 
            Lastly, as to the Thomas Lepper
deposition, Plaintiff argues that he should not be charged for Lepper’s second
deposition because Defendant failed to timely produce documents regarding
similar defects by the first deposition. Further, Plaintiff argues the second
deposition was totally unnecessary because Mr. Lepper testified he did not have
any new or changed opinions based on the document production that was
eventually and finally produced by Defendant. Plaintiff argues that the first
deposition being $4,249.45  and $1,237.85
for his second deposition is unreasonable and excessive. Part of the costs of
the depositions include: (1) for the first deposition, Vertitext Legal
Solutions charged $1,795.00 for transcript services; $1,624.50 for Priority
Request, $350 for professional attendance; $34.45 in Exhibits; $150.00 for
Logistics; Processing & Electronic Files; and $295.00 for Virtual Services;
and (2) for the second deposition, Vertitext Legal Solutions charged $495.00
for transcript services; $122.85 for Priority Request, $175 for professional
attendance; $34.45 in Exhibits; $150.00 for Logistics; Processing &
Electronic Files; and $295.00 for Virtual Services.
 
            Plaintiff argues that these
deposition costs should be taxed in the amount of $4,912.30 and that Plaintiff be
charged no more than the amount of $575 for the transcript services regularly
charged by Steno for one deposition. 
 
            Opposition Brief
 
            In opposition to this argument as to
Item No. 4, BMW argues that Plaintiff required all of the additional depositions,
and that it is claiming deposition costs which are expressly provided for in
Section 1033.5. 
 
            Tentative Ruling:  The Court GRANTS the motion to tax $1,237.85
for the second deposition, which was required because of BMW’s failure to
comply with its discovery obligations until the Court granted a motion to
compel.  The Court DENIES the motion to
tax the $4,249.45 in costs for the first deposition.
 
 
Item No. 8 
 
            Next, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s claimed expert expenses are not allowable costs. Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(b)(1), fees of experts not ordered by the
court are not allowable as costs, except when necessary authorized by law. Here,
Plaintiff notes that Defendant is claiming costs in the amount of $2,500 for
Thomas Lepper’s expert fees for his two depositions are not recoverable because
they were not ordered by the Court. 
 
            In opposition, BMW asserts that Defendant
deposed Plaintiff’s expert, Thomas Lepper, on two occasions. BMW contends that
prior to the second deposition, Plaintiff demanded that Defendant pay for Mr.
Lepper’s time in advance of the deposition, which Defendant consented to do. BMW
contends that these were not expert fees associated with DEFENDANT’s own expert
– these were fees necessary to take the deposition of Plaintiff’s expert. 
 
            This Court finds that the $2500
advance for Mr. Lepper’s time was not a fee for the defendant’s expert but
rather was a cost of the PLANTIFF’s expert witness.  Thus, these are not “fees of experts” as
prohibited by Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(b)(1).   The Court will entertain oral argument as to
why all costs BMW incurred for the second Lepper deposition should be
chargeable against Plaintiff rather than borne by BMW, which had failed to
comply with its discovery obligations until the Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion to compel.  
 
Item No. 11
 
            Plaintiff further asserts that
Defendant is not entitled to recover court reporter fees except as established
by statute. Plaintiff notes that Defendant claims $24,750 for court reporter
fees. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(b)(5), transcripts of
court proceedings not ordered by the Court are not allowable as costs, except
when expressly authorized by law. However, as noted by Defendant, BMW, Court reporter
fees as established by statute are allowable costs. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5(a)(11).) California Government Code section 68086(c) states that “[t]he
costs for the services of the official court reporter shall be recoverable as
taxable costs by the prevailing party as otherwise provided by law.” Plaintiff
asserts that California Government Code Section 69948(a): “The fee for
reporting testimony and proceedings in contested cases is fifty-five dollars ($55)
a day, or any fractional part thereof.” Plaintiff asserts that the trial was
ten (10) days, and thus, the maximum recoverable amount should be $550.
 
            In opposition, Defendant BMW notes
that reporter fees are authorized by statute, but does not state the statute
which it is bringing this request under. BMW merely argues that the court
reporter fees are reasonable and necessary. 
 
            The Court’s tentative ruling is to
DENY this aspect of the motion to tax, because the Court appointed Ms. Cabello
as an official pro tem court reporter for the trial, her official record of the
proceedings thus being available to both parties for post-trial motions or
appeal.  With the Los Angeles Superior Court
having discontinued the use of court-employed court reporters for civil
matters, parties who desire an official record of the proceedings are obliged
to provide their own reporters and thus provide millions of dollars a year in
net savings to the court system.  Had Ms.
Cabello been a court employee, there would be no doubt that her reasonable fees
would be recoverable on a Cost Bill by the prevailing party.  
 
Item No. 12

 
            Plaintiff also asserts that Defendant
cannot recover costs for models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits. As
noted by Plaintiff, Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(a)(13) allows
recoverable costs when models and blowups of exhibits and photocopies of
exhibits may be allowed if they were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of
fact. Plaintiff asserts that none of the items listed in this section fall
under the category of recovery, nor were any of the items listed actually used
by Defendant at trial as all exhibits were shown to the witnesses via Defendant
Counsel’s iPad. 
 
            In opposition, Defendant does not
disagree that the items listed in this section were not used at trial. Instead,
Defendant contends that it nonetheless prepared them as it had to prepare to
defend against every argument Plaintiff might have raised. This Court does not
find this to be a particularly persuasive argument. The models and/or
enlargements were not needed at trial and thus do not fit the criteria of
section 1033.5(a)(13) as they did not aid the trier of fact. 
 
            Thus, this Court GRANTS this motion
as to Item No. 12 and taxes the claimed exhibits, models and blow-up costs
asserted int eh Cost Bill. 
 
Item No. 16
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant is not entitled to recover Defendant’s “other”
claimed costs, including parking and mileage. Plaintiff asserts that Code of
Civil Procedure, section 1033.5(a) does not contemplate the recovery of
Defendant’s counsel’s parking and mileage costs. Defendant’s memorandum of
costs accounts for $1,420.31 in court fees parking & mileage. Plaintiff
also notes that Defendant does not attach an Attachment 16a to its memorandum
of costs, and is asking for an additional $44.47 without any support. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant merely argues that these claimed “other” costs were all
reasonable and necessary, but provides nothing more than some citations to
declarations. Defendant offers no case precedent, statute, etc., that would
warrant these “other” costs being awarded. 
 
As
such, this Court GRANTS this motion as to Item No. 12 and taxes the entire cost
of this category.
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Tax Costs is Granted in part and Denied in part.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to calculate
the amounts the Court taxed, provide a proposed order to BMW’s counsel within 7
calendar days of this ruling (for review, edits, and approval), and then submit
the proposed order to the Court on or before May 20, 2024.  If Plaintiff fails to do so, then BMW shall
submit a proposed order to the Court within 7 calendar days after the Plaintiff’s
May 20 deadline reflecting its calculations and the resultant net costs award. 
 