  Case Number:  22STCV38821    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
10, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  August 14, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Raymond Salazar v. L.A.
Downtown Medical Center 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV38821
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
L.A. Downtown Medical Center LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Raymond
Salazar
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
slip and fall case.  On December 14, 2022,
plaintiff Raymond Salazar (Plaintiff or Salazar) commenced this action against defendant
L.A. Downtown Medical Center, LLC (erroneously sued and served as L.A. Downton
Medical Center) (hereafter, Defendant or LADMC) for injuries arising from a
slip and fall on Defendant’s premises at 1711 W. Temple St., Los Angeles,
California 90026.  Plaintiff alleges that
he was lawfully on Defendant’s premises as a patient when he slipped on water.  On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (FAC) for (1) negligence and (2) premises liability.
 
            On April 23,
2024, Defendant filed this Motion for Summary Judgment.  
 
            On December
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 

 
On December 31, 2024, Defendant replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
When reviewing a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿¿A motion for summary
judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (Scalf).)¿
A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of persuasion that there
is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850 (Aguilar).)¿ A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant
need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿¿¿ 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of
evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891 (Gaggero).)¿
The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿¿¿ 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff
opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by showing one or more triable
issues of material fact exist as to the challenged element. (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)¿ “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should
be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿¿¿ 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary
judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the
opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿
[Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants conclusively negated
a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial?”¿ (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853,
860, internal citation omitted.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840;
see also Weiss v. People ex rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)¿¿¿ 
III.      EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff submits twelve (12) objections to the medical
records attached as Exhibit C to Defendant’s Evidence in Support of Motion for
Summary Judgment and one (1) objection to the Declaration of Sergio Avila.  
 
            The
objections to Exhibit C are OVERRULED.  The
Declaration of Guadalupe Garibay, the custodian of records, is attached to the
medical records.  (See Kim Decl., Ex. C,
p. 000468.)  
 
            The
objection to the Declaration of Sergio Avila is OVERRULED.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
            
A.  Material Facts
On December 9, 2021, Salazar was admitted to the Los
Angeles Downtown Medical Center (LADMC) pursuant to California Welfare &
Institutions Code § 5150 hold for severe delusional paranoia.  (Defendant’s Undisputed Material Facts (UMF)
1.)  On December 14, 2021, at approximately 10:45 p.m., Salazar
experienced a fall in the hallway of LADMC’s Behavioral Health Unit (BHU).  (UMF 8.) 
Aristotle Oris, R.N. (Nurse Oris), observed the fall.  (UMF 9.)  
At his deposition, Salazar testified there was water
leaking from a thermostat for the A/C unit running down the wall and coming
onto the floor.  (Salazar Depo., p.
65:10-23.)  Salazar further testified
that his clothes “were wet all on my back.” 
(Id.)  
Nurse Oris did not observe any foreign substance on the
floor where Salazar fell, nor did he observe any water or slippery substance
coming down from the walls.  (Oris Decl.,
¶ 7.)  Nurse Oris did not observe any
conditions or circumstances that caused him to believe they were the cause of
Salazar’s sudden fall.  (Id.)  
There is no thermostat or air conditioning unit in the
North Station of the BHU.  (Avila Decl.,
¶ 4; Oris Decl., ¶ 15.)  The temperature
in the North Station of the BHU is regulated by centralized air conditioning.
The conditioned air flows into the North Station of the BHU through a ductwork.  (Avila Decl., ¶ 4.)  There is no record of any repairs or
maintenance to the centralized air conditioning system that services the North
Station of LADMC’s BHU on or subsequent to December 14, 2021, to address a
leak, pooling water, or any similar condition. 
(Avila Decl., ¶ 8.)  Avila has never received a report or
information suggesting there has ever been an air conditioning unit-related
leak that occurred in the North Station of the BHU.  (Avila Decl., ¶ 9.)  
According to the custom and practice at LADMC’s BHU, a
janitorial staff would sweep and mop the area and abate any such slippery
conditions on a daily basis.  (Avila
Decl., ¶ 6.)  According to the
custom and practice at LADMC’s BHU, all hospital staff are required to correct
hazards when they find them, such as wiping up slippery substances on the
floor.  If hospital staff are unable to
correct hazards, they are to notify the appropriate staff member.  (Id.) 

B.  Analysis 
 
Two issues predominate: (1) whether there was a substance which
caused Plaintiff to slip and fall, and (2) whether Defendant had notice of the
condition.  For the reasons stated
herein, the court finds there are triable issues of material fact.
 
1.     
Legal Principles re:
Premises Liability
 
The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.¿ (McIntyre
v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671; Civ. Code, §
1714, subd. (a).)¿ To prevail on a claim for premises liability, the plaintiff
must prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2)
defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3)
plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (See CACI No. 1000; Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)¿¿A defendant may be negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property if (1) a condition on the property created an
unreasonable risk of harm; (2) the defendant knew or, through the exercise of
reasonable care, should have known about it; and (3) the defendant failed to
repair the condition, protect against harm from the condition, or give adequate
warning of the condition.  (CACI No. 1003.)  A substantial factor in
causing harm is a factor that a reasonable person would consider to have
contributed to the harm.  It must be more than a remote or trivial
factor.  It does not have to be the only cause of the harm.  (CACI
No. 430; Yanez v. Plummer (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 180, 187.) ¿ 
A property owner is not the insurer of the safety of its
guests.¿ (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205 (Ortega).) 
The owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is key
to establishing liability.¿ (Hall v. Rockcliff Realtors (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-40.)  Whether a defendant had constructive notice
of the condition that created the risk of harm depends on whether, under all
the circumstances, the condition was of such a nature and existed long enough
that defendant had sufficient time to discover it and, using reasonable care:
(1) repair the condition; or (2) protect against harm from the condition; or
adequately warn of the condition.  A defendant must make reasonable
inspections of the property to discover unsafe conditions.  If an
inspection was not made within a reasonable time before the accident, this may
show that the condition existed long enough so that the owner using reasonable
care would have discovered it.  (CACI No. 1011.)  
2.      Application
 
            Defendant argues it is entitled to
summary judgment because Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice
of the alleged dangerous condition and Plaintiff’s alleged harm was not
foreseeable.[1]  In support, Defendant offers the declarations
of Sergio Avila and Aristotle Oris to establish (1) there is no air conditioning
unit or thermostat where Plaintiff fell (Avila Decl., ¶ 4; Oris Decl., ¶ 15);
(2) there was no substance flowing from the wall or pooling on the floor where
Plaintiff fell at the time the incident occurred (Oris Decl., ¶ 7); (3) janitorial
staff sweep and mop the area and abate any such slippery conditions on a daily
basis (Avila Decl., ¶ 6); (4) all hospital staff are required to correct
hazards when they find them, such as wiping up slippery substances on the floor
(Avila Decl., ¶ 6); and (5) there is no record of any repairs or maintenance to
the centralized air conditioning system that services the North Station of
LADMC’s BHU on or subsequent to December 14, 2021, to address a leak, pooling
water, or any similar condition (Avila Decl., ¶ 8).  Based upon the foregoing Defendant meets its
initial burden to demonstrate there was no dangerous condition which could have
caused Plaintiff to fall and further, even if it existed, Defendant did not
have actual or constructive notice of the condition.   
The burden
shifts.  Plaintiff argues there are
triable issues of material fact concerning the existence of the dangerous
condition and Defendant’s notice of the same. 
In support, Plaintiff argues that after falling, his clothes “were wet
all on my back.”  (Salazar Depo., p.
65:10-23.)  The reasonable inference to
be drawn is that there was a liquid substance on the floor which caused
Plaintiff to fall which wet the back of his clothes.  “Courts deciding
motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence
but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party.”  (Weiss v. People ex rel.¿Department of
Transportation, supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 864.)¿ Plaintiff’s
testimony stands unrebutted.  
Plaintiff
also points to the absence of any evidence presented by Defendant to establish
whether any inspections of the premises where Plaintiff fell were conducted
prior to Plaintiff’s fall, and if so, with what frequency.  Defendant submitted evidence to establish
that “janitorial staff … sweep and mop the area and
abate any such slippery conditions on a daily basis.”  (Avila Decl., ¶ 6.)  However, there are no records to support the
assertion.  More to the point, there are
no records that establish that the area where Plaintiff fell was inspected, or
if so, when.  “If an inspection was not
made within a reasonable time before the accident, this may show the condition
existed long enough so that the [Defendant] owner using reasonable care would
have discovered it.” (CACI No. 1011.)  Because there is no evidence establishing when,
where, or if an inspection took place, the condition could have existed for any
amount of time prior to Plaintiff’s fall. 
The court cannot find as a matter of law that Defendant’s inspection
efforts were reasonable.  
In sum, the
court finds there are triable issues regarding the existence of a dangerous
condition and whether Defendant had constructive notice of the condition.
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   January 10,
2025                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


