 Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-29-24
Case #23CHCV02662, Golden Hammer Ops, LLC vs. JETNET,
LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
APPLICATION TO SEAL
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant and Cross-Complaint JETNET, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Golden Hammer Ops, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
JETNET is requesting that the Court seal certain
documents that were filed with the court because they are protected by a
contractual confidentiality and non-disclosure clause.
 
RULING: Application to seal is denied without
prejudice.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 5, 2023, Golden Hammer Ops, LLC (Golden
Hammer) sued JETNET, LLC (JETNET), Daniel Streufert, and ADSBEXCHANGE.com (ADSB)
for misappropriation of trade secrets, intentional interference with contractual
relations, and violations of the California Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.
 
On October 30, 2023, JETNET cross-complained against
Golden Hammer and its owner, Gregory Rowlee (Rowlee), alleging causes of action
for breach of contract, intentional interference with contractual relations,
and declaratory relief. JETNET alleges that Golden Hammer and Rowlee breached
an agreement between the two parties and interfered with JETNET’s contract with
a third party, AWS.
 
ADSB demurred to the complaint, relying in part on the
asset purchase agreement (APA) by which JETNET acquired ADSB.  Pursuant to the parties’ stipulated
protective order, redacted versions of the APA were attached to the parties’ points
and authorities, and selected portions of the APA were quoted in their papers. An
unredacted version was lodged with the court by Golden Hammer conditionally
under seal.  The court overruled the
demurrer, and did so without reliance on the APA, although it had been raised as
an issue.
 
While the demurrer was pending, JETNET filed a motion to
seal the following: (1) “Portions of Golden Hammer Ops Opposition to the
Demurrer of Defendant [ADSB]…; (2) “Portions of the [APA] attached as Exhibit A
to the Declaration of Nicholas Sethi in Support of the Opposition.”; and (3) “Portions
of [ADSB’s] Reply in support of its Demurrer…”
 
JETNET contends that sealing those materials is proper
because the APA states that its contents are confidential and are not to be
disclosed or otherwise communicated to anyone other than the parties to that
contract.  JETNET argues that it is part
of a small industry with few other players and that the confidentiality of
“transactional documents” is needed to maintain one’s competitive standing and
to foster economic activity in the field. 
On the other hand, JETNET contends, there is limited public interest
involved, particularly where the terms of the APA played no role in the court’s
order overruling the demurrer.  Finally,
JETNET contends that the sealing order is necessary to further the goals of the
parties’ stipulated protective order, and that failing to do so would render
that order meaningless.  The motion is
supported by the declaration of JETNET lawyer Andrew Winetroub, who addressed
only the circumstances surrounding the demurrer, references to the APA, and the
existence of the APA’s confidentiality provision. Golden Hammer opposes the
motion, primarily on the basis that the public has an interest in the facts
surrounding the ADSB acquisition and because JETNET’s application fails to meet
the standards required for an order to seal court documents. 
 
ANALYSIS
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution
provides for a qualified right of public access to court proceedings, both
civil and criminal.  So too does the
California Constitution, which states in Article I, § 3(b)(1), that “the people
have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s
business, and therefore the meetings of public bodies and the writings of
public officials and agencies shall be open to public scrutiny.”  Section 3(b)(2) provides that a statute or
court rule that limits the right of access shall be narrowly construed, while
one that furthers the right of access shall be broadly construed.
 
Likewise, Code of Civil Procedure section 124 states that
“[e]xcept as provided in Family Code § 214 or any other provision of law, the
sittings of every court shall be public.”
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” (California
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c) (Rule 2.550).) Rule 2.550(d) states that: “The
court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds
facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” If a trial court fails to make the required
findings, “the order is deficient and cannot support sealing.” (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
 
The party seeking to seal the documents must establish with
“specificity” that a serious injury is likely to occur if the materials are not
sealed and that protecting this interest overcomes the public’s right of access
to court records and items of public interest. (Universal City Studios, Inc.,
v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1282 (Universal
City Studios).)  Accordingly, any
order sealing a record must support its finding of the need to seal the record
with facts, and “[d]irect the sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if
reasonably practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contained
the material that needs to be placed under seal. All other portions of each
document or page must be included in the public file.” (Rule 2.550(e)(1)(B).)
 
Relying on Universal Studios, supra, 110 Cal.App.4th
at page 1273, JETNET contends that an overriding interest exists based
on the APA’s contractual nondisclosure provision.  However, the existence of such a provision by
itself is not enough.  Instead, the party
seeking to seal a record on the basis of such a contractual provision must also
submit facts establishing both likely injury from the record’s disclosure and
that the means of redaction or exclusion are limited to preventing such injury.
(Ibid.)
 
Golden Hammer opposes the motion, contending that the APA plays
an important role in this litigation, that there is a strong public interest in
the operations of flight tracking companies such as JETNET, that JETNET has
failed to establish prejudice from leaving the documents unsealed, and that the
request is not narrowly tailored.  JETNET
argues that it only seeks to seal those portions of the APA that are not
already unredacted in the public record following ADSBs demurrer. It is only
the unredacted portions of the APA in the public record, JETNET argues, that
are relevant to determining the outcome of the demurrer and any further
disclosure would be prejudicial and unnecessary.
 
Finally, JETNET argues in its motion that the proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored and that no less restrictive means exists to
achieve the overriding interest. 
 
The Court concludes that JETNET has failed to meet the
standards for a sealing order.  First, it
has not provided the Court with the actual language of the APA’s
confidentiality provision.  Second, apart
from argument, it has made no showing of why a sealing order is required in
this context.  Instead, the factual
assertions concerning the effect of disclosure in the industry is unsupported
by any factual showing.  Next, the
request is not narrowly tailored.  As to
the APA itself, JETNET has not addressed whether any portions of the APA might be
exempt from a sealing order.  As to the
papers filed in connection with ADSB’s demurrer, its motion refers to only
unspecified portions of those documents. 
Finally, as Golden Hammer’s opposition points out, the APA includes
multiple provisions that are either prefatory, definitional, or that otherwise need
not necessarily be sealed, and JETNET has failed to explain why any such
provisions must be sealed. In short, JETNET has failed to establish a
likelihood of serious injury apart from the contractual provision itself, or
that its proposed redactions are limited to preventing such injury.  (Universal City Studios, supra, 110
Cal.App.4th at p. 1281; accord In re Providian Credit Card Cases
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 292, 309 [courts should view with skepticism
overbroad sealing requests].)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that JETNET has failed to override
the public’s interest in access to court proceedings.  In recognition of the possibility that JETNET
may yet be able to do so, however, the court denies the motion without
prejudice.
 
 Opposing party Golden
Hammer to give notice.