  Case Number:  22CHCV00236    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-29-24
Case #22CHCV00236,
Monocent Inc., vs. Mina Kateb
Trial Date: 6-17-24
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF
THIRD PARTY
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Mina Kateb
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Kateb has
requested an order compelling compliance with a deposition subpoena to third
party Doug Bend, Esq., for production of business records.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Mina Kateb (Kateb) filed this motion to compel compliance with
deposition subpoena of business records after serving the subpoena on Doug
Bend, Esq., (Bend) on December 5, 2023. Bend was involved in transactions relating
to Monocent and drafting documents for Monocent, the company that Kateb claims
to be a shareholder for.
 
Kateb’s
subpoena sought non-privileged documents and communications related to Monocent
and Kateb; documents relating to Kateb’s corporate shares; documents relating
to the corporate status of Monocent; and documents relating to the creation
and/or preparation of Monocent’s governing documents and Secretary of State
filings.
 
In a letter
dated December 28, 2023, Bend refused to produce any documents responsive to
the subpoena and claimed that the attorney-client privilege applied to all of
the communications and documents. He also stated that he could provide
responsive information if there were a court order requiring him to do so. Kateb’s
counsel attempted to meet and confer with Bend regarding the documents and
communications at issue, but the efforts were fruitless. Kateb filed this
motion to compel compliance with deposition subpoena on February 26, 2024.
 
No opposition
has been filed to Kateb’s motion. Kateb filed a reply on April 22, 2024, in
which she represents that counsel for Monocent stated in a letter that “my
client has approved Mr. Doug Bend, Monocent Corporate attorney, to provide you
with all non-privileged material you have requested through your subpoena.”
(Reply at p. 2.)
 
ANALYSIS
A party “may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved . . . if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.) A party may obtain discovery regarding
relevant material. (CCP § 2017.010.)
 
Evidence is
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement.” (Glenfed Development
Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Any doubt on relevance
is resolved generally in favor of production. (Mercury Interactive Corp. v.
Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 98.)
 
California law
permits litigants to subpoena records from nonparties. (CCP § 2020.010.) Subpoenas
solely seeking the production of business records, rather than appearance at
deposition, are specifically authorized. (CCP § 2020.410.) Such business
records subpoenas must command compliance “on a date that is no earlier than 20
days after the issuance, or 15 days after the service, of the deposition
subpoena, whichever date is later.” (CCP § 2020.410(c).) 
 
Service of a
deposition subpoena obligates the production of whatever documents or things
are specified in the subpoena, and to appear in any proceeding to enforce
discovery. (CCP § 2020.220(c).) A deposition subpoena is enforceable through a
motion to compel compliance with the subpoena. (CCP § 1987.1.) If a deponent
fails to produce any document under the deponent’s control that is specified in
a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move for an order
compelling that production. (CCP § 2025.480.)
 
In this case,
the disputed facts of consequence include (1) whether Kateb is a shareholder of
Monocent; (2) the percentage of Monocent that Kateb owns; (3) whether
Defendants have taken actions to defraud Kateb out of her interest in Monocent;
and (4) the current value of Monocent. The documents and communications that
Kateb seeks from Bend are related to whether Kateb is shareholder of Monocent,
and if so, what percentage she owns. Kateb also seeks information related to
the current corporate status of Monocent. Therefore, the documents and
communications that Kateb wants to obtain are relevant to this action and
likely to lead to discoverable information.
 
Furthermore, Kateb
argues that the subpoena on its face does not call for the production of
privileged documents because the requests are for “non-privileged” documents
and communications. If Bend does claim that the documents that Kateb seeks are
privileged, then he must list then on a privilege log so that Kateb may
determine the basis for the objection. (Bank Of America, N.A. v. Superior
Court (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099-1100 (“The party claiming the
privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to
support its exercise”); Wellpoint Health Networks v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 129-143 (ordering that party withholding documents
responsive to subpoena on the ground of attorney-client privilege should
prepare a privilege log for all such documents and “[t]he information in the
privilege log must be sufficiently specific to allow a determination of whether
each withheld document is or is not [in] fact privileged”).)
 
Currently, Bend
has failed to demonstrate that the documents sought are subject to the
attorney-client privilege. Kateb also argues that he has failed to even
demonstrate that Monocent is his client. Additionally, Kateb argues that the
documents responsive to the subpoena would fall within exceptions to the
attorney-client privilege. Any communications shared with third parties would
not be privileged unless (1) the disclosure was confidential and (2) the
confidential disclosure was reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the
purpose for which the lawyer was consulted. (Seahaus La Jolla Owners Assn.
v. Superior Court (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 754, 768.) Kateb claims that the
documents she seeks are communications with third parties.
 
Kateb also
argues that documents transmitted to or from an attorney are not automatically
privileged and that for communications to privileged, the dominant purpose of
the communications must have been for obtaining legal advice. Kateb argues that
business advice would not be privileged.
 
Finally, Kateb
argues that communications between Taheri and Bend are subject to the crime
fraud exception to the attorney-client privilege. Under Section 956(a) of the
Evidence Code “[t]here is privilege under this article if the services of the
lawyer were sought or obtained to enable or aid anyone to commit a crime or
fraud.” (See B.P. Alaska Exploration, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (1988) 199
Cal.App.3d 1240, 1262 (the proponent of the crime fraud exception must make a
showing of “evidence from which reasonable inferences can be drawn to establish
the . . . fraud”).) Kateb claims that she has made a prima facie showing of
fraud by alleging that Taheri sought the services of Bend to assist him in
concealing material information about Monocent from Kateb, despite his express
admission to Bend that Kateb was a shareholder of Monocent. She argues that
this would strip the attorney-client privilege from any communications between
Taheri and Bend. (BP Alaska, 199 Cal.App.3d at 1262 (holding that the
crime fraud exception applies to “communications sought to enable the client to
plan to commit a fraud, whether the fraud is successful or not).)
 
Given the
foregoing arguments and the lack of opposition from Bend and Monocent, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance with the deposition
subpoena of Doug Bend. Bend must produce any non-privileged documents and
communications in his possession that are responsive to Kateb’s requests. To
the extent that he claims privilege, he must produce a privilege log.
 
Moving party to
give notice.