  Case Number:  22STCV11413    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



OSCAR VALLE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SANTA CLARITA STUDIOS CORP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV11413
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 18, 2023



 
On
March 10, 2023, Defendant Santa Clarita Studios Corp. propounded Request for Production
of Documents, Set One, on Plaintiff Oscar Valle.  (Gershfeld Decl. ¶ 4.)  On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff served objections.  (Gershfeld Decl. ¶ 5.)  The parties met and conferred before Defendant
filed a motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 20-22 on July 7, 2023.  (Gershfeld Decl. ¶¶ 6-10.)
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
RFP
No. 20 requests “All COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and any PERSON in 2020 about Covid-19.”
Defendant
“assumes that documents responsive to this request would involve communications
from October 17, 2020 to December 31, 2020, during which time Plaintiff will have
obtained his diagnoses, the severity of his condition, his prognosis, his need for
an accommodation, his need for a leave of absence, and what information he sought
about his rights in the workplace.”  (Motion
at p. 7; see Reply at p. 4.)  But this limitation
is not what Defendant requested.  Defendant
acknowledges that the requested time period is longer, and “responsive documents
would include information from March 4, 2020, when Governor Gavin Newsom declared
a state of emergency in California, to December 31, 2020, and whether (for instance)
[Plaintiff] educated himself on the municipal, county, state or federal guidelines
to quarantine and return to the workplace.” 
(Motion at p. 7; see Reply at pp. 4-5.) 
Plaintiff correctly points out that “this time period was at the height of
the pandemic, and everyone was constantly talking about COVID-19 to family, friends,
coworkers, neighbors, health professionals.” 
(Amended Opposition at p. 7.)  As phrased,
RFP No. 20 is overbroad and burdensome.  The
motion is denied for RFP No. 20.
RFP
No. 21 requests “All COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and any health care provider in
2020 about Covid-19.”
Defendant
contends that because Plaintiff alleges a COVID-19 diagnosis on October 21, 2020,
“Defendant’s document request would encompass communications between October 17,
2020 and December 31, 2020.  In other words,
only eight-five (85) days of possible communications with a health care provider
after he had already been diagnosed with COVID-19.  It is hard to imagine a more reasonable and relevant
request for documents.”  (Motion at p. 8.)  Defendant argues that it “has no other way of
learning whether or not Plaintiff’s COVID-19 diagnosis limited any major life activities,
whether or not Plaintiff had any physical effects related to his diagnosis, Plaintiff’s
real-time disclosures about the physical effects (if any) of his COVID-19 diagnosis
and his recovery from COVID-19, the alleged accommodations he might have needed,
whether or not Plaintiff could perform the essential functions of his job for Defendant,
any potential witnesses with whom Plaintiff communicated about his physical condition
as a result of his COVID-19 condition, whether Defendant and its employees failed
to take steps necessary to prevent discrimination/retaliation, or whether Defendant
and its employees refused to grant Plaintiff leave.”  But again, this is not what Defendant requested.  This request, as phrased, could include private
medical records and communications from long before Plaintiff’s diagnosis and alleged
disability.  As phrased, RFP No. 21 is overbroad.  The motion is denied for RFP No. 21.
RFP
No. 22 requests “All DOCUMENTS which reflect any investigation YOU conducted in
2020 about Covid- 19.”
Defendant
contends that it is seeking information about “whether Plaintiff undertook any investigation
by consulting internet or other sources about his condition, his prognosis, his
obligation to disclose his condition, his duty to quarantine and the like.”   Again, this limitation is not what Defendant
requested.  Plaintiff correctly notes that
this request “could conceivably encompass any phone call, any text, any Google search,
any news article, and a seemingly endless and unspecified types of documents over
the course of a calendar year.  During the
pandemic, the whole world was seeking out news and information on COVID-19 daily
or multiple times per day.”  (Amended Opposition
at p. 8.)  As phrased, RFP No. 22 is overbroad
and burdensome.  The motion is denied for
RFP No. 22.
The
motion is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 18th day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 