  Case Number:  24CHCP00366    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/19/24
Case #24CHCP00366
 
PETITION FOR
COURT ORDER REDUCING THE PERCENTAGE
OF VOTES
NECESSARY TO AMEND CC&Rs, AND 
RESERVATION OF
EASEMENTS
 
Petition filed on 9/13/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner Brookside Walk Corporation
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondents The Members of Brookside
Walk Corporation
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
reducing the percentage of votes necessary to amend Declaration of Covenants,
Conditions and Restrictions and Reservation of Easements.
 
RULING: The petition is granted.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY  
 
Petitioner Brookside Walk Corporation (Petitioner) is a homeowners
association for a condominium residential development comprised of 162 units.  Petitioner is managed by a Board of Directors
consisting of volunteer homeowners with the assistance of a professional
management company, PMP Management  (PMP).  Petitioner
is responsible for the enforcement of certain equitable servitudes, commonly
known as covenants, conditions, and restrictions under a recorded document
entitled, “Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions and
Reservation of Easements for Brookside Walk” (Declaration).  (Petition, Ex.A).  Respondents are the Members of Petitioner who
each own a condo within the development and are entitled to vote on membership
matters.
 
One of the matters that Members must vote to approve is
amendments to the Declaration.  Pursuant
to Article XXI, Section 6(b) of the Declaration, amendments require 67%
membership approval.  The existing
Declaration requires Petitioner to maintain insurance on the individual
Condominium Units known as “walls-in” insurance coverage.  Additionally, the existing Declaration
requires that Petitioner to carry 100% replacement cost coverage of all common
property and improvements, including certain portions of the Unit.  With rising insurance costs these requirements
are becoming costly which requires Petitioner to levy special assessments to
cover the cost of the insurance premiums. 
Petitioner’s Board of Directors (Board) worked with Petitioner’s
attorney to draft the "Proposed First Amendment to the CC&Rs"
(Proposed Amendment) to lessen the financial burden of insurance coverage on
Petitioner and prevent future special assessments to cover increasing premiums.  (Petition, Ex.D).  
 
After considerable effort and consideration, on or about
12/4/23, pursuant to the procedure in its Governing Documents, Petitioner caused
a voting package, with copies of the Proposed Amendment and a letter to be
mailed to its Members requesting that they vote, “yes” or “no,” for the
adoption of the Proposed Amendment and setting forth, generally, the purpose of
the amendment to the Declaration.  (Moskovyan
Decl. ¶4-5); (Petition, Ex.E).  Despite
diligent efforts on the part of Petitioner to have Members vote, only 92
ballots were returned.  (Moskovyan Decl.
¶¶6-7); (Petition, Ex.F-H).  
 
Of the 92 Members who voted, 87 voted “yes” in favor of adopting
the Proposed Amendment.  (Petition, Ex.I).  To obtain the 67% needed to pass the proposed
Amendment, 109 “yes” votes were needed.
 
Based on the foregoing, on 9/13/24, Petitioner filed the
instant petition seeking an order reducing the percentage of votes necessary to
amend Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions and Reservation of
Easements.  On 9/17/24, the Court set the
hearing on the petition for 11/19/24 and ordered Petitioner to provide notice
to the Members via each Member’s preferred delivery method pursuant to Civil
Code 4041 and all others entitled to notice pursuant to Civil Code 4275(c)(1),
via first-class mail.  
 
Pursuant to Article XXI, Section 6(d) of the Declaration,
Petitioner required consent of the City of Santa Clarita before amending or
modifying any provision of the CC&Rs. 
On 7/22/24, the City of Santa Clarita consented to the amendment.  (See Ketchum Decl. filed 10/31/24); (Petition,
Ex.J).  Pursuant to the CC&Rs, eligible
lender approval is also required to amend the insurance provisions in the
CC&Rs.  An “Eligible Mortgage Holder”
is defined to mean “the holder, insurer, guarantor of a first Mortgage on a
Condominium who has filed with the Corporation a written request for notice of
certain information as provided herein.”  (Petition, Ex.A, Article XVII, §1).  Based on information and belief, Petitioner
indicates that no such lenders have requested to receive notice from Petitioner.  Therefore, there are no known Eligible
Mortgage Holders as defined by the CC&Rs. 
(Moskovyan Decl. ¶8).
 
Notice was provided to the Members on 10/4/24 via each
member’s preferred delivery method.  (See
Mathews Decl.).  No response/opposition
from any Member has been filed or received by Petitioner.  (See Notice of Non-Opposition).  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Civil Code 4275(a) provides: 
 
If in order to amend a declaration,
the declaration requires owners having more than 50 percent of the votes in the
association, in a single class voting structure, or members having more than 50
percent of the votes in more than one class in a voting structure with more
than one class, to vote in favor of the amendment, the association, or any
member, may petition the superior court of the county in which the common
interest development is located for an order reducing the percentage of the
affirmative votes necessary for such an amendment. The petition shall describe
the effort that has been made to solicit approval of the association members in
the manner provided in the declaration, the number of affirmative and negative
votes actually received, the number or percentage of affirmative votes required
to effect the amendment in accordance with the existing declaration, and other
matters the petitioner considers relevant to the court's determination. The
petition shall also contain, as exhibits thereto, copies of all of the
following: 
(1) The governing documents. 
(2) A complete text of the
amendment. 
(3) Copies of any notice and
solicitation materials utilized in the solicitation of owner approvals. (4) A
short explanation of the reason for the amendment. 
(5) Any other documentation
relevant to the court’s determination.”
 
As set forth above, Petitioner failed to obtain the
required 67% of votes necessary to pass the Proposed Amendment.  The Court finds that the instant petition
meets the statutory requirements for such relief.  (See Petition and exhibits attached
thereto; (Moskovyan Decl.; Ketchum Decls.; Mathews Decl.) See also Civil
Code 4275(c), (d), (e).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The petition is granted.