..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 19STCV46989
Plaintiff's Name: Adela Sanchez, Livia Larios
Defendant's Name: Kia America, Inc.
People-Names: Adela Sanchez, Livia Larios, Robert B. Broadbelt III
Company-Names: Kia America, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: January 3, 2025
Events: Motion to bifurcate trial, trial
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To bifurcate trial and determine liability and damages separately
Facts: Plaintiffs brought claims against Kia America, Inc. for punitive damages, civil penalties, and compensatory damages. Defendant moved to bifurcate trial to separate issues of liability and damages.
Disputes: Defendant's motion to bifurcate trial was disputed by Plaintiffs
Acts: The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the motion.
Agreements: The court agreed to bifurcate trial as to the issue of Plaintiffs' claim for punitive damages.
Laws: Civil Code section 3295, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, Code of Civil Procedure section 598
Case Citations: Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, Grappo v. Country Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496
Statutes: Civil Code section 3295, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, Code of Civil Procedure section 598
Roles:
  * Judge: Robert B. Broadbelt III
Significant Statements:
  * "The court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant's profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section 3294." (Civ. Code, ยง 3295, subd. (d))
  * "While the statute refers only to evidence of the defendant's financial condition, in practice bifurcation under this section means that all evidence relating to the amount of punitive damages is to be offered in the second phase, while the determination whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages (i.e., whether the defendant is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is decided in the first phase along with compensatory damages." (Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 919)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has considered the defendant's motion to bifurcate the trial in this action brought by plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios against Kia America, Inc. The court has granted the motion in part, ordering that the trial will be bifurcated into two phases. In the first phase, the jury will decide the issues of liability for compensatory damages, civil penalties, and whether the defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. In the second phase, the jury will decide the issue of punitive damages against the defendant, if applicable. The court has denied the defendant's request to bifurcate the trial to separately determine the issue of civil penalties, finding that it is not in furtherance of convenience, the avoidance of prejudice, or judicial economy and efficiency.
