 Case Number:  23STCV05303    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




amber height

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
downtown crenshaw rising

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV05303




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   3, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant downtown crenshaw rising
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Indira J. Cameron-Banks
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Amber Height
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Downtown Crenshaw Rising
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with this
motion.  
DISCUSSION
Indira J. Cameron-Banks (“Defendants’ Counsel”) moves to be relieved as
counsel for defendant Downtown Crenshaw Rising (“Defendant”).
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿¿¿ 
            First, the court finds that
Defendants’ Counsel has not filed “a declaration stating facts showing that”
the service address is the current address for Defendant as required because
Defendants’ Counsel did not, on the supporting declaration, check the box
establishing that counsel confirmed within the past 30 days that the address of
service is Defendant’s current address. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1) [declaration must state
facts showing that the service address is the current address; “‘current’ means
that the address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion
to be relieved”]; MC-052 as to Downtown Crenshaw, ¶ 3, subd. (b).)  Thus, the declaration is incomplete.  Moreover, although Defendants’ counsel
stated, under subdivision (d) (labeled “by other means”), “electronic service
to Damien Goodmon at dg@libertyecosystem.org[,]” it is unclear whether
Defendants’ Counsel (1) is asserting that the address was confirmed to be
current by contacting defendant Damien Goodmon at his email address, or (2) is
asserting that the moving papers were also served by electronic service, as
stated in the accompanying proof of service. 
(MC-052 as to Downtown Crenshaw, ¶ 3, subd. (b)(1)(d); POS-040, ¶¶ 4, 5
[stating service was made on defendant Goodmon as agent for all defendants “by
mail and follow-up with email”].)  
Thus, the court finds that Defendants’ Counsel did not submit a
declaration stating facts showing that the address of service is Defendant’s current
address and therefore did not comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362,
subd. (d)(1)(A).)  The court therefore
denies Defendants’ Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendant. 
Second, to the extent that Defendants’ Counsel’s requests an order relieving
them as counsel for defendants Liberty Community Land Trust (“Liberty”), and
Damien Goodmon (“Goodmon”), the court denies that request.  
Defendants’ Counsel filed two separate “Declaration[s] in Support of Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” forms as to Liberty and Goodmon, each
of which identified the hearing date thereon to be January 3, 2025.  (MC-052 as to Liberty, p. 1; MC-052 as to
Goodmon, p. 1.)  However, Defendants’
Counsel (1) did not identify Liberty and Goodmon as clients in the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil in connection with the
motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendant, and did not file separate
motions to be relieved as their counsel, and (2) did not identify Liberty and
Goodmon as clients in the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil.  (MC-051, ¶
1 [identifying the client to be only Downtown Crenshaw]; MC-052 as to Liberty;
MC-052 as to Goodmon; MC-053, ¶ 1 [identifying, on the proposed order, the
subject motion to be the motion of Defendants’ Counsel “to be relieved as
counsel of record for” Downtown Crenshaw only].) 
Thus, to the extent that Defendants’ Counsel moves to be relieved as
counsel of record for defendants Liberty and Goodmon as well, the court finds
that Defendants’ Counsel did not file all required documents (i.e., the Notice
of Motion and Motion and proposed Order on Judicial Council forms MC-051 and
MC-053) and therefore did not comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.
ORDER
The court denies Indira J. Cameron-Banks’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for defendant Downtown Crenshaw Rising, without prejudice to Indira J.
Cameron-Banks’s filing a new motion to be relieved as counsel that complies
with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.
            The court orders Indira J.
Cameron-Banks to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 3, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court