  Case Number:  19STCV46989    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




adela sanchez

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
kia america, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV46989




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   3, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to bifurcate trial
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Kia America, Inc.  
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios     
Motion to Bifurcate Trial
The court considered
the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Kia America, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
bifurcating trial in this action, filed by plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia
Larios (“Plaintiffs”), to separate the issues of (1) Plaintiffs’ claim for
punitive damages, and (2) Plaintiffs’ claim for civil penalties.
“The court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the
admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until
after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages
and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in
accordance with Section 3294.¿ Evidence of profit and financial condition shall
be admissible only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the
plaintiff and to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.¿ Evidence of profit
and financial condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found
for the plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice,
oppression, or fraud.”¿¿(Civ. Code, §¿3295, subd. (d).)¿ “While the statute
refers only to evidence of the defendant’s financial condition, in practice
bifurcation under this section means that all evidence relating to the amount
of punitive damages is to be offered in the second phase, while the
determination whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages (i.e.,
whether the defendant is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is decided in
the first phase along with compensatory damages.”¿ (Holdgrafer v. Unocal
Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to other issues, “trial courts have broad discretion to determine
the order of proof in the interests of judicial economy.”¿ (Grappo v.
Country Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)¿ Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1048, “[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice . . . may order a separate trial . . . of any separate issue
or of any number of causes of action or issues . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1048, subd. (b).)¿ Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 598 provides that
“[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby
. . . make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall
precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., §¿598.)¿¿¿ 
First, the court finds that Defendant is entitled to an order
bifurcating trial as to the issue of Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages in
the manner required by Civil Code section 3295, and therefore grants that
request and makes the orders set forth below. 
(Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d); Holdgrafer, supra, 160
Cal.App.4th at p. 919.) 
Second, the court finds that it is not in furtherance of convenience, the
avoidance of prejudice, or judicial economy and efficiency to bifurcate trial
to determine whether Plaintiffs are entitled to civil penalties from Defendant
and the amount thereof after liability is determined because (1) Defendant has
not shown, with adequate argument and analysis, that bifurcating trial in this
manner is justified to prevent prejudice or jury confusion, and (2) the court
finds that bifurcating trial to separate these additional issues would not
promote the efficiency and economy of the court and judicial resources.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598, 1048, subd. (b).)  The court further notes that Defendant has not
shown that it is in furtherance of convenience and judicial efficiency and
economy to bifurcate trial to determine issues relating to Plaintiffs’ claim
for civil penalties (i.e., whether Defendant willfully failed to comply with
the Song-Beverly Act) since the first phase of trial will require Plaintiffs to
prove that Defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, which may be based
on the same or similar presentations of evidence and arguments.  The court therefore exercises its discretion
to deny Defendant’s request to bifurcate trial to separately determine the
issue of Plaintiffs’ claim for civil penalties. 
(Ibid.) 
ORDER
            The court grants in part defendant
Kia America, Inc.’s motion to bifurcate as follows. 
            The court orders that trial of this
action will be bifurcated as follows: (1) the jury will first decide the issues
of whether to impose liability for compensatory damages and, if so, the amount
of compensatory damages, whether to impose a civil penalty and the amount of
any civil penalty, and whether defendant Kia America, Inc., is guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) only after making findings in plaintiffs
Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios’s favor on the issues of whether to impose
liability for compensatory damages, the amount of compensatory damages, and
whether defendant Kia America, Inc. is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud,
the jury will then decide the issue of whether to impose punitive damages
against defendant Kia America, Inc.
            The court denies all other relief
requested.
            The court orders plaintiffs Adela
Sanchez and Livia Larios to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 3, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court