 Case Number:  23STCV10684    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




mcgausa llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
michelle s. liu

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV10684




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   3, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  CROSS-DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
(2)  
  CROSS-DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Cross-defendants McGausa LLC and
Joshua Melville                        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-Complainant Michelle S. Liu
(1)  
Demurrer
to Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Second Amended Cross-Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike.  
BACKGROUND
Michelle S. Liu
(“Cross-Complainant”) filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint in
this action on June 12, 2024, against plaintiff and cross-defendant McGausa,
LLC (“McGausa”) and cross-defendant Joshua Melville (“Melville”) (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”).  Cross-Complainant
alleges four causes of action for (1) breach of lease covenants, (2) breach of
covenant restricting transfer, (3) nuisance, and (4) harassment. 
Cross-Defendants now move the
court for an order (1) sustaining their demurrer to each cause of action
alleged against them in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint, and (2) striking from
the Second Amended Cross-Complaint various of Cross-Complainant’s prayers for
relief. 
DEMURRER
The court overrules cross-defendant
McGausa’s demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of covenants of
contract because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 394, 402 [elements of breach of contract].)  
The court notes, as McGausa
argues, that the parties’ lease, which is attached to the cross-complaint,
states that the agreed use for the subject premises includes “permitted
smoking,” and that Cross-Complainant alleges that McGausa breached the lease
by, inter alia, using the premises as a cigar lounge.  (SACC Ex. A, p. 1, ¶ 1.8; SACC ¶ 14.)  But (1) the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
does not allege what conduct constitutes “permitted smoking” (SACC Ex. A, ¶
1.8), and the allegations that McGausa (i) covenanted that it would use the
premises for the specified activity purposes only (SACC ¶ 13) and (ii) breached
that covenant by using the premises as a cigar lounge (SACC ¶ 14), liberally
construed, sufficiently allege that the use of the premises as a cigar lounge
does not constitute “permitted smoking,” and (2) even if McGausa had shown that
the use of the premises as a cigar lounge could, as a matter of law, be
considered a permitted use pursuant to the parties’ lease, Cross-Complainant
also bases this cause of action on other alleged breaches by McGausa (e.g.,
renting the premises out for parties, failing to pay the amount due for
increased insurance premiums, and failing to ensure that its customers would
park only in certain assigned spaces (SACC ¶¶ 14, 16, 18)), such that McGausa
has not shown that this cause of action fails in its entirety.[1]  (Munoz v. Patel (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th
761, 780, n. 9 [“a general demurrer does not lie as to a portion of a cause of
action and if any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the demurrer
will be overruled”] [internal quotation marks omitted].) 
            The court sustains cross-defendant Melville’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of covenants of contract, to
the extent that it is alleged against Melville,[2] because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against him since (1)
Cross-Complainant does not allege that Melville is a party to the lease that is
the subject of this cause of action (SACC ¶ 10 and Ex. A, ¶ 1), and the lease
attached to the pleading shows that Melville was not a party thereto, and (2)
the allegations in support of this cause of action set forth the alleged
breaches of contract on the part of McGausa, not Melville (SACC ¶¶  11-19). 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Miles, supra, 236
Cal.App.4th at p. 402.)
            The court overrules cross-defendant McGausa’s
demurrer to the second cause of action for breach of covenant restricting
transfer because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
it since Cross-Complainant has alleged that (1) the parties agreed that the
leased premises would not be assigned or sublet without Cross-Complainant’s
written consent (SACC ¶ 21), and (2) McGausa breached the lease by assigning,
transferring, and/or subletting the leased premises without Cross-Complainant’s
written consent (SACC ¶ 23).[3]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Miles,
supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at p. 402.) 
            The
court sustains cross-defendant Melville’s demurrer to the to the second cause
of action for breach of covenant restricting transfer because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, to the extent it is alleged
against Melville, since Cross-Complainant did not allege that Melville is a
party to the contract that is the subject of this cause of action (SACC ¶¶ 10,
23), as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the first cause of
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Miles, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at p. 402.)
            The court overrules cross-defendant McGausa’s
demurrer to the third cause of action for nuisance because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Cross-Complainant has alleged
that (1) McGausa’s conduct, which produced and caused noxious odors from
excessive smoke, loud music, and the excessive trash around the building,
interfered with Cross-Complainant’s use and enjoyment of the land as a property
owner (SACC ¶ 26), (2) the invasion of Cross-Complainant’s interest caused her
actual damage (SACC ¶ 29), and (3) the interference was unreasonable (SACC ¶¶
28-30).[4]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176 [elements of private nuisance].)
            The
court sustains cross-defendant Melville’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for nuisance because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Melville, to the extent that it is asserted against him,
since Cross-Complainant has not alleged facts establishing that Melville
created the subject nuisance, and instead has alleged facts establishing that cross-defendant
McGausa is the entity that “changed the permitted use of the Premises
from a workspace, office and business incubator, to a cigar lounge and a rental
space” which led to the creation of the nuisance (SACC ¶ 26).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Today’s
IV, Inc., supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1176.) 
            The court sustains Cross-Defendants’ demurrer
to the fourth cause of action for harassment because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
            Cross-Complainant
appears to allege this cause of action pursuant to section 12940 of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) (“FEHA”).  (SACC ¶ 32 [alleging that Cross-Complainant
was a person providing services under a contract pursuant to section
12940].)  Under that statute, it is an
unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment
agency, apprenticeship training program or any training program leading to
employment, or any other person, because of[,]” inter alia, race,
national origin, marital status, sex, gender, or gender identity or expression,
“to harass an employee, an applicant, an unpaid intern or volunteer, or a
person providing services pursuant to a contract.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).)  
            Cross-Complainant
does not allege that Cross-Defendants acted as her employer, labor
organization, employment agency, or apprenticeship training program or any
training program leading to employment, or that she is an employee, applicant,
or unpaid intern or volunteer of Cross-Defendants’.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).)  While Cross-Complainant has asserted that she
is a “person providing services pursuant to a contract” (SACC ¶ 32), the court
finds that those allegations are conclusory, unsupported by sufficient factual
allegations, and therefore do not show that Cross-Complainant may bring a cause
of action for harassment under FEHA. 
Specifically, a “person providing services pursuant to a contract” means
a person who (1) has the right to control the performance of the contract for
services and discretion as to the manner of performance, (2) is customarily
engaged in an independently established business, and (3) has control over the
time and place the work is performed, supplies the tools and instruments in the
work, and performs work that requires a particular skill not ordinarily used in
the course of the employer’s work.  (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(5).)  Cross-Complainant
did not allege specific facts establishing that she was providing services
to Cross-Defendants—instead acting as a landlord to McGausa (SACC ¶ 6 and Ex.
A)—or that she had control over the time and place such services were
performed, and that the work requires a particular skill not ordinarily used in
the course of the employer’s work.  (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subds. (j)(5)(A), (j)(5)(C).) 
Moreover, Cross-Complainant did not present adequate authority and
analysis to show that a landlord may sue a tenant for harassment under section
12940 of FEHA, which sets forth unlawful employment practices. 
            The
court notes that McGausa has also argued that Cross-Complainant’s requests for
damages and other relief are defective. 
However, those arguments are not properly raised on demurrer.  (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los
Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1562 [“a demurrer tests the sufficiency
of the factual allegations of the complaint rather than the relief suggested in
the prayer of the complaint”].) 
The burden is on the plaintiff
or cross-complainant “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render
it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff or
cross-complainant “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how
that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  The court finds that
Cross-Complainant has not met her burden to articulate how she can amend (1)
her cross-complaint to render it sufficient against cross-defendant Melville,
and (2) her fourth cause of action to render it sufficient against
McGausa.  
The court therefore sustains (1)
Melville’s demurrer to the first through fourth causes of action without leave
to amend, and (2) McGausa’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action without
leave to amend. 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Cross-Defendants move the court for an order striking
Cross-Complainant’s (1) prayer for termination of the lease (Prayer, ¶ 3), (2) prayer for diminution, impairment,
or depreciation of the value and/or rental value of the premises (Prayer, ¶ 4),
(3) prayer for discomfort, annoyance, mental and physical distress (Prayer, ¶
5), (4) prayer for medical expenses (Prayer, ¶ 6), (5) prayer for statutory
fines (Prayer, ¶ 7), and (6) prayer for punitive damages (Prayer, ¶ 8).
First, the court denies as moot cross-defendant Melville’s motion to
strike because the court has sustained Melville’s demurrer to the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint without leave to amend. 
Second, the court finds that McGausa has not shown that
Cross-Complainant’s prayer for termination of the lease is improper on the
ground that Cross-Complainant did not file an unlawful detainer action since
(1) Cross-Complainant does not pray for possession of the premises using the
unlawful detainer statutory scheme, and (2) McGausa did not present adequate
authority, argument, and analysis establishing that Cross-Complainant may not
seek to terminate the parties’ lease. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436; SACC, Prayer, ¶ 3.)  The court therefore denies McGausa’s motion
to strike that request. 
Third, the court denies cross-defendant
McGausa’s motion to strike the prayers for diminution, impairment, or
depreciation of the value and/or rental value of the premises, discomfort,
annoyance, mental and physical distress damages, medical expenses, and
statutory fines because McGausa did not meet its burden to present argument and
authority establishing that those requests for relief are irrelevant, improper,
or not made in conformity with the laws of this state.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; PH II, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683 [uses of motions to strike should be
cautious and sparing, and should not be used as a procedural line-item veto for
the civil defendant].)
Fourth, the court denies cross-defendant
McGausa’s motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages because punitive
damages may be recovered in connection with a cause of action for
nuisance.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Hassoldt
v. Patrick Media Group, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 153, 168, n. 13, abrogated
on other grounds as set forth in People v. Rogers (2013) 57 Cal.4th 296,
330; Hutcherson v. Alexander (1968) 264 Cal.App.2d 126, 136 [“when the
facts warrant, exemplary or punitive damages may be recovered in a nuisance
case”]; Mot., p. 9:19-20 [arguing that punitive damages cannot be sought
because this case involves a breach of lease].) 
The court notes that McGausa did not argue that Cross-Complainant’s
prayer for punitive damages should be stricken for any other reason. 
ORDER
            The court overrules in part and
sustains in part plaintiff and
cross-defendant McGausa, LLC and cross-defendant Joshua Melville’s demurrer as
follows. 
The court sustains cross-defendant Joshua Melville’s demurrer to
cross-complainant Michelle S. Liu’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint without
leave to amend. 
            The court sustains plaintiff and
cross-defendant McGausa, LLC’s demurrer to cross-complainant Michelle S. Liu’s fourth
cause of action for harassment without leave to amend. 
            The court denies as moot cross-defendant Joshua Melville’s motion to
strike.
            The
court denies plaintiff and cross-defendant McGausa, LLC’s motion to strike.
            The court orders cross-defendant
Joshua Melville to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal
from cross-complainant Michelle S. Liu’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint within
10 days of the date of this order.
            The court orders plaintiff and
cross-defendant McGausa, LLC to file an answer to cross-complainant Michelle S.
Liu’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint within 10 days of the date of this order.
            The court orders cross-defendant
Joshua Melville to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 3, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


