 Case Number:  23STCV11077    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV11077




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Food 4 Less of California Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
May 17, 2023, Plaintiff Brendan Hainer (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Food 4 Less of California, Inc. (“Defendant”). 
 
On August 7, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  
 
Defendant now moves for leave to file a cross complaint against American
Guard Services, Lester Finnell, and Rolando Vega. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross complaint setting forth “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The proposed cross-complaint arises
out of the same occurrence alleged in the complaint and generally seeks
indemnification. Accordingly, the Court finds that granting leave to file the
cross-complaint would be in the interest of justice. No opposition has been
filed asserting any reasons why allowing the filing would not be in the
interest of justice. Therefore, the motion for leave is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint. Defendant is ordered
to file and serve its proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days of the date
of this Order. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 