  Case Number:  20STCV07830    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV07830




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Patricia Reyes-Uribe




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the Petition
to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, filed on by Petitioner Patricia Reyes-Uribe
(Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Eligh Molina, age 8. The Court denies the petition without prejudice
for the following reasons. 
 
Petitioner states that Claimant was involved in a motor
vehicle accident when he was two years old. The medical records in attachment
8 show that Claimant was taken to the emergency department on the date of the
accident. The records show Claimant had a lip contusion and was instructed to
follow-up with a primary care physician in 1-2 days. (Petition, pdf., p. 23.)
There are no records of a follow-up examination. Nevertheless, Petitioner
asserts Claimant is recovered. However, given the type of incident, the Court
requires a more recent medical record/report verifying Claimant’s current
condition, or other evidence that claimant is fully recovered.  
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 11b(6), describing the
reasons for varying settlements of Claimant and the other plaintiffs.  
 
Attachment 12b(4)(c) must include the most recent DHCS
letter showing the $49.60 lien amount. 
 
Since it appears Petitioner’s attorney is representing
other parties in this case besides Claimant, the response in item 17e must be
changed and applicable attachment must be provided. 
 
In MC-351, Petitioner should include the information from
attachment18b(5) in item 8b(2). 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 