 Case Number:  21STCV10370    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV10370




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Racquel Wills




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the Petition
to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, filed on by Petitioner Racquel Wills (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Jayda Brisco,
age 16. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons. 
 
Petitioner asserts Claimant was injured in a rear-end motor
vehicle accident on February 6, 2021 and had neck, low back, and head pain,
headaches, and depression. Petitioner asserts Claimant is not recovered from the
neck and back pain and depression, but that the symptoms are temporary. However,
the medical records attached do not indicate that the injuries are temporary. 
 
In item 12b(5)(b)(iii), based on the reduction, it appears
the amount paid should be $1,100. (However, the proposed order shows $1,500
being reimbursed to Advanced Imaging Center.)
Additionally, the total lien amounts in item 12b5 and
attachment12b(5) do not equal $14,457 as Petitioner indicates. 
 
Petitioner requests $99,000 in
attorney fees which represents 33% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be
reasonable. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 