 Case Number:  22STCV17326    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25690




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Reopen Discovery
(2)
  Motion to Compel Defendant Shayon Stamper’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Kysean Ferreira  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Long Beach Unified School District, Shayon Stamper, Virginia Divers, Jason
  Heesch, and Saul Hernandez



 
 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff
Kysean Ferreira (“Plaintiff”) moves to reopen discovery to complete the
depositions of Jason Heesch and Renny Chu, and complete the further deposition
of Shayon Stamper. Plaintiff also separately moves to compel the deposition of
Shayon Stamper, which was partially completed on April 18, 2024. Defendants
Long Beach Unified School District, Shayon Stamper, Virginia Divers, Jason
Heesch, and Saul Hernandez (“Defendants”) oppose both motions, and Plaintiff
replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint
was filed on May 25, 2022.
 
On June 1, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”).  
 
On July 28,
2022, Long Beach Unified School District filed a notice of removal to
federal court. According to the federal court docket for this case, the parties
stipulated to dismiss Plaintiff’s federal cause of action and Judge Josephine
L. Staton ordered Plaintiff to file an amended pleading. (See (Notice of
Remand, filed 3/6/23, page 6.) On February 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second
amended complaint (“SAC”).  
 
On February 27, 2023, the action was remanded to the
Superior Court. (Notice of Remand, filed 3/6/23.)  
 
On July 12, 2023, the Court held a trial setting conference,
scheduling the jury trial for May 9, 2024. All discovery and pre-trial motion
cut-off dates were associated with the trial date. (Min. Order, 7/12/23.) 
 
On April 24, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application
to continue trial and reopen discovery. The Court observed that no motion to
reopen discovery was filed. However, in light of the then-pending motion for
judgment on the pleadings, the Court continued trial to May 23, 2024. All
discovery remained closed and the pre-trial motion cut off remained in effect.
(Min. Order, 4/24/24.) 
 
On May 3, 2024, the Court granted in part, Plaintiff’s ex parte
application to continue trial and reopen discovery, by continuing trial from
May 23, 2024 to August 23, 2024. The order specified that “all discovery and
pre-trial motion cut off dates shall be associated with the previous trial date
unless otherwise stipulated by the parties or otherwise ordered by the Court.”
(Min. Order, 5/3/24.) 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Kyle J. Scott, Plaintiff’s counsel, states the
following: “On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer email to
defendants’ attorney requesting that she agree to provide dates for Defendants
Shayon Stamper and Jason Heesch and Defendants’ Principal Renny Chu.
Plaintiff’s attorney stated if defendants would not comply with the properly
noticed depositions then he would have move to reopen discovery.” (Scott Decl.
¶ 4.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
This
case arises out of an alleged battery by Shayon Stamper (“Stamper”)
on
Plaintiff at Perry Lindsey Academy on October 5, 2021. Jason Heesch (“Heesch”)
is alleged to be a Special Education Aid that observed the incident. Renny Chu
(“Chu”) is the Principal who is alleged to have conducted meetings and
interviews to investigate the incident. Plaintiff noticed the depositions of
Stamper and Heesch on March 1, 2024, scheduled for March 14, 2024. (Scott Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Chu’s deposition was noticed on March 7, 2024, set for March 19,
2024. Objections were served based on unavailability. (Id., Exh. 2.) The
parties met and conferred. On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff requested deposition
dates and the depositions were scheduled for April 18, 2024. As a result, on
April 18, 2024, Stamper’s remote deposition began at 10:00 a.m. The parties
took a 30-minute lunch break at 1:37 p.m. When the lunchbreak ended and the
parties resumed, Stamper was not present. Defendants’ counsel asserted that
Stamper was no longer available. The depositions of Heesch and Chu did not
proceed because there was insufficient time. 
 
Plaintiff
argues these depositions are needed for their experts, Marian Stephen, Ed.D.
and Scott DeFoe, to formulate their opinions.
 
In
opposition, Defendants contends Plaintiff has stipulated to not put his mental
condition at issue. Therefore, the issues of this case are limited to the
physical altercation between Plaintiff and two employees. (Opp., 2.) Defendants
argue trial is approaching and they would be prejudiced if fact discovery is
reopened. Defendants also argue the deponents at issue were previously made available
and note that Plaintiff was dilatory in bringing this motion after his ex parte
application to reopen discovery was denied on April 24, 2024. 
 
However,
the Court notes that this motion to reopen was filed on April 30, 2024.
Therefore, it appears Plaintiff acted reasonably diligently in bringing this
motion. Additionally, the discovery appears important since it could reveal
information about the subject incident from percipient witnesses. Trial is
currently set for August 23, 2024. Therefore, it appears the depositions could
be concluded before trial. Accordingly, the Court grants the request to reopen
discovery for the limited purpose of conducting the depositions of Jason
Heesch, Renny Chu, and for hearing the motion as to Shayon Stamper. 
 
The Court
declines to award sanctions since none are requested. 
 
The Court
will consider the motion to compel Stamper’s further deposition. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  
 
“A motion under subdivision (a)
[above] shall comply with both of the following:  
 
1. The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.  
2. The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.”  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).)  
 
If a motion is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450
(g).) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel the further deposition of Stamper, who did not re-appear to
conclude the deposition following the lunch break on April 18, 2024.
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue this is an improper motion for reconsideration
that violates Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, since the Court previously
denied this motion on May 31, 2024. The Court denied the previous motion
because the discovery motion cut-off had passed, and Plaintiff had not moved to
reopen discovery under section 2024.050. (Min. Order, 5/31/24.) Defendants also
argue that under section 2025.450, the motion cannot be granted since no
deposition notice was ever served for Stamper’s April 18, 2024 deposition. 
 
Alternatively,
Defendants move for a protective order under section 2025.420(b)(1), (16),
preventing any further questioning. In the alternative, Defendants ask for a
protective order under section 2025.420(b)(6),(7), (10), that the deposition be
written, or limited to a half hour of questions not previously asked.
Defendants also seek monetary sanctions. 
 
Defendants
argue that all relevant questions were asked during Stamper’s deposition and
the remainder were irrelevant and harassing. (Opp., 5; Evenstad Decl. ¶ 5, Exh.
C.) The deposition was set without a notice, as a courtesy, before the four
noticed depositions for that day of Jason Heesch, Saul Hernandez, Virginia
Divers, and Renny Chu. The depositions were scheduled to begin at 11:30 a.m. It
appears the Stamper deposition was scheduled at 10:00 a.m. in order to complete
it before the subsequent scheduled depositions. However, the Stamper deposition
went longer than planned and encroached on the other depositions that day.
Based on the deposition transcript, it appears the parties intended to complete
as many depositions as possible. (Evenstad Decl., Exh. C, 36:15–19.) 
 
In reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendants did not separately file a motion for a protective order.
Notably, Plaintiff does not substantively address the argument that a motion
for reconsideration was required, and only briefly states the Court did not
deny the May 31, 2024 on the merits. (Reply, 5.) However, Plaintiff provides no
authority to show why a motion under section 1008 was not required in this
instance. 
 
On April
15, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application and noted that no
motion to reopen discovery had been filed. (See Minute Order Dated April 15,
2024.) On April 22, 2024, rather than file a motion to reopen discovery,
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Stamper’s deposition. After the Court denied
the motion on May 31, Plaintiff filed another motion to compel, the instant
motion, which seeks an order to compel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450(a). (See Notice of Motion at p. 2.) However, that provision
provides that if, “after service of a deposition notice, a party … without
having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it,” the party “giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony...” Here, it is undisputed that a
notice of deposition was not served. The Court denies the motion to compel
Stamper’s deposition.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED in part. The parties should meet and confer
promptly to ensure that the depositions can be completed by the current trial
date.
 
The
motion to compel Defendant Shayon Stamper’s Deposition is DENIED.

 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 