 Case Number:  22STCV12812    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV12812




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside and Vacate Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Mary Frances Theresa Villavelez
  Catane




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff Mary Frances Thresa Villavelez Catane moves to set aside the
dismissal entered on March 11, 2024. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            As
an initial matter, this motion is timely because it was filed within six months
after the complaint was dismissed. 
 
            The
Declaration of Igor Fradkin, Plaintiff’s counsel (“Counsel”), states that on January
23, 2024, a notice of settlement was filed, after which the Court set an Order
to Show Cause for March 11, 2024. (Fradkin Decl. ¶ 6.) Counsel further
declares: “Plaintiff’s counsel’s staff unintentionally did not have the March
11, 2024 date on our calendaring system and thus, the date was not on our
calendar. Plaintiff’s counsel’s failure to appear was due to counsel’s
inadvertence and mistake.” (Id. at ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
            Therefore,
based on the declaration, the Court finds that Counsel’s absence at the OSC was
through inadvertence. 
            
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal
(Settlement) for August 19, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 