 Case Number:  24CHCV00365    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 John Labidi
vs. Don Bratton
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Don Bratton
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is requesting
attorney fees in the amount of $1,000 from Plaintiff
 
RULING: Motion
for attorney fees is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This was an
unlawful detainer case filed by Plaintiff John Labidi (Plaintiff) against
Defendant Don Bratton (Defendant). On July 8, 2024, this Court granted
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment on the basis that the Three-Day Notice
to Pay Rent or Quit that Plaintiff served on Defendant failed to comply with
the requirements of the LAMC and the LAJCO.
 
Defendant filed
this motion for attorney fees on July 11, 2024. Defendant is requesting $1,000
in attorney fees from Plaintiff. Defendant argues in his motion that the rental
agreement entitles him to an award of attorney fees. He also argues that the
fees sought are reasonable. Defendant’s evidence in support of his request for
attorney fees include declarations from his attorneys, Ben Gharagozli and Kevin
Hermansen. The attorney declarations indicate that while the attorneys spent
several hours on this case and incurred more than $1,000 in fees, they are only
requesting $1,000 in attorney fees. (Gharagozli Decl., ¶ 9; Hermansen Decl., ¶
11.) They also indicate that they have not provided an hourly log because they
have only requested $1,000 in attorney fees. (Id.)
 
ANALYSIS
A prevailing party
is entitled to recover its attorneys’ fees when authorized by contract,
statute, or law. (See CCP § 1033.5(a)(10); Cal. Civ. Code § 1717(a).) “A
successful party means a prevailing party, and [a party] may be considered
prevailing parties for attorney’s fees purposes if they succeed on any
significant issue in litigation which achieves some of the benefit the parties
sought in bringing suit.” (Bowman v. City of Berkeley (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 173, 178.)
 
Defendant is
the prevailing party because the Court granted summary judgment in his favor.
The rental agreement that was attached to Plaintiff’s complaint provides for
attorney fees for the prevailing party in a dispute stemming from the agreement,
and those attorney fees are not to exceed $1,000. (Ben Gharagozli, Ex. A, p. 6,
¶ 36.)
 
In determining
the reasonableness of fees, courts look to the factors from Church of
Scientology v. Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, disapproved on other
grounds by Equilon Enters. v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53,
68 n.5. The factors from Wollersheim are (1) the amount of money
involved in the litigation; (2) the nature of the litigation and its difficulty
and the intricacies and importance of the litigation; (3) the skill required
and employed in handling the litigation, the necessity for skilled legal
training and ability in trying the case, and counsel’s education and experience
in the particular type of work involved; (4) the attention given to the case; (5)
the success of the attorneys efforts; and (6) the time consumed by the
litigation. (Id.)
 
Defendant has
requested the maximum allowable attorney fees under the rental agreement, which
is $1,000. This amount is more than reasonable because Defendant’s attorneys stated
that they actually incurred fees in excess of this amount, but they are only
requesting this amount because it is the maximum amount that they can request.
 
Defendant’s
motion is granted in the full requested amount.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion
for attorney fees is granted in the amount of $1,000.
 
Moving party to
give notice.