 Case Number:  23TRCP00286    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




Nick
  Marier
 
 


 
 
Petitioner/Plaintiff
 
 


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCP00286




v.
 
 
Belen
  Katzen, Barry Katzen, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive. 
 
 


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
 


Respondents/Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 19, 2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Nick Marier                
Responding Party:                  N/A - Unopposed
Petitioner Nick
Marier’s Motion for an Order Compelling Arbitration
 
RULING
Plaintiff
Nick Marier’s Motion for an Order Compelling Arbitration is GRANTED.

 
BACKGROUND
A summons
on the petition was filed on July 13, 2023. Petitioner Nick Marier then filed
the instant Petition for an Order Compelling Arbitration (hereinafter,
“Petition”). Petitioner alleges that on April 13, 2022 petitioner and
respondents Belen Katzen and Barry Katzen entered into a Residential Income
Property Purchase Agreement and Joint Instructions (hereinafter, “RPA”) for the
sale of real property located at 620 S. Fir Ave., Inglewood, California 90301.
Petition, ¶ 1. Under the provisions of the RPA the parties are to bring any
dispute or claim in law or equity to arbitration. Petitioner asks that this
Court grant an order for the parties to arbitrate because respondents refuse to
do so. No opposition papers were filed; therefore, the petition is unopposed.       
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard – 
Under both
the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. Winter v. Window Fashions Professions,
Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947. The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties. CCP § 1281.2. This is usually done by presenting a copy of
the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration
or to stay proceedings pursuant to CCP sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state,
in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference.” CRC, 3.1330. The moving party must
also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. CCP §
1281.2. The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversy
clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes
the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. Hyundai Amco
America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.
 
Analysis - 
Here, petitioner has established the existence of a written arbitration
agreement between the parties and has attached a copy that recites the
provisions of the arbitration agreement verbatim. See Petition, Exh. A, ¶¶ 36
& 38. Additionally, petitioner argues that the refusal of respondents to
arbitrate is demonstrated by their attempt to cancel the RPA arguing that
petitioner provided “fraudulent proof of funds.”
 
Respondents accusation of “fraudulent proof of funds” likely stems from
when petitioner mistakenly provided an incorrect document for the verification
of funds. Petition, ¶ 7. Petitioner realized this error and later corrected it,
providing the corrected proof of funds. Id. Petitioner also alleges that
the “Cancellation of Contract” may have been prompted by petitioner exercising
his right to purchase the subject property for a lower sum. Petition, ¶ 9.
However, petitioner asserts that neither of these are valid reasons to cancel
the RPA under its terms. After review, the court agrees. Moreover, the attempt
to cancel the RPA is sufficient to establish the party’s refusal to arbitrate
the controversy.    
 
CONCLUSION
Accordingly,
Plaintiff Nick Marier’s Motion for an Order Compelling Arbitration is GRANTED.

 
 
 
 
            [Moving
party or prevailing party on motion] is ordered to give notice of ruling.