  Case Number:  23GDCV02700    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR ORDER TO PROCEED UNDER PSEUDONYMSI.        INTRODUCTION           In this action, Plaintiffs Jane Doe KC 1, Jane Doe 3, Jane  Doe 4 allege Defendants Gloria De Los Angeles Trevino Ruiz aka Gloria Trevi  (herein “Defendant Trevino”); Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez aka Sergio  Andrade; and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary Boquitas and Mary  Raquenel (herein “Defendant Andrade” and Portillo”) sexually abused Plaintiffs  while Plaintiffs were children. Defendants are a music group and colloquially  known today as the “Trevi-Andrade Clan.” Notably, Defendant Trevino was and  continues to be a celebrity in Mexico due to her prominence as a pop star. Plaintiffs  allege that Defendants used their power, money, and fame to recruit Plaintiffs  into their entourage and inflict ongoing sexual, physical, and mental abuse  against Plaintiffs, including beating them with electrical cords, forcing them  to work and exercise for hours, and withholding food and sleep. Plaintiffs  further allege that Defendants forced Plaintiff Jane Doe KC to eat from the trash  and restricted her food only to trash.            On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant action  pursuant to the California Child Victims Act. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiffs  filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) which is now the operative complaint,  alleging fifteen causes of action for the following five claims with respect to  each of the three Plaintiffs: (1) sexual battery (civil code § 1708.5); (2)  sexual assault; (3)battery; (4) intentional and/or negligent infliction of  emotional distress (IIED); and (5) aiding and abetting sexual battery, sexual  assault, battery, and intentional/negligent infliction of emotional distress. Before  the Court is a Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonyms filed concurrently with the  Declaration of Plaintiffs’ attorney, Karen Barth Menzies, which moves the Court  to protect Plaintiffs’ privacy interests and minimize the risk of threat,  harassment, or intimidation that may come with the filing of the instant  action. That same day, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Seal Plaintiffs’ Motion to  Proceed Under Pseudonyms.  Defendant  Trevino filed her Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonyms  on July 24, 2024, along with Evidentiary Objections and a Request for Judicial  Notice. Defendant also filed a Motion to Seal as to Defendant’s Opposition.  On  July 25, 2024, a Stipulation of a continuance was granted to continue the  hearing of the instant motion to September 5, 2024.  On  August 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Reply, a Request for Judicial Notice, a  Response to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, a Proposed Order, and a  Motion to Seal Plaintiffs’ Reply a.                Related Case The Court acknowledges that on December 30, 2022, other Jane Doe  plaintiffs sued Defendants anonymously, making similar allegations of childhood  sexual abuse pursuant to the California Child Victims Act. (Jane Doe, et al.  v. Gloria De Los Angeles Trevino Ruiz, et al (22GDCV01128), Dept., P, Honorable  Margaret L. Oldendorf.) The Court deemed this case related to the instant case on  January 2, 2024. Those  plaintiffs also moved the Court to proceed under pseudonyms to protect their privacy  and safety. Judge Oldendorf issued an Order granting that motion on August 29,  2023.  This Court does not consider that  order binding or persuasive but simply notes this fact to indicate that the  issues addressed today are not matters of first impression.   II.      EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS Defendants’ Evidentiary  Objections as to the Affidavit of Jane Doe K.C. 1 Sustained   ·        19 (amend “did nothing to stop it to  extent I was aware”); 27—28; 30—31; 41—42; 44, 45, 48 (BER); 49 (relevance); 50  (conclusory) Overruled ·        3—18; 20—26; 29, 31—40; 43, 46—47; 51,  (except as to the first sentence which is sustained” “Defendant Trevi, along  with her husband and representatives, have a wide platform and fanbase to  control the narrative regarding my horrific experience, and she continues to  speak out in the media”); 52—57      Defendants’ Evidentiary  Objections as to the Affidavit of Jane Doe 3 Sustained  ·       27  (BER); 31 (conclusory); 32 (BER); 33 (lacks foundation); 60 (lacks foundation  as is); 83 (conclusory); 86 87, 90, 91, (BER); 92 (conclusory);   Overruled ·       3—26;   28—30;   34—59; 61—82; 85—85; 88—89; 93 (except as to the first sentence which is  sustained” “Defendant Trevi, along with her husband and representatives, have a  wide platform and fanbase to control the narrative regarding my horrific  experience, and she continues to speak out in the media); 94—99   Defendants’ Evidentiary  Objections as to the Affidavit of Jane Doe 4 Sustained  ·       50  (lacks foundation); 56 (sustained only as to the last sentence); 66, 69, 70,  73, 74 (BER); 75 (conclusory); 66 Overruled ·       3—49;  51—65; 67, 68, 71, 72, 77—82  Defendants’ Evidentiary  Objections as to the Declaration of Karen Barth Menzies Sustained ·       None Overruled ·       4—14     III.          REQUEST  FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Defendant’s Request for  Judicial Notice Defendant  Trevino requests this Court take judicial notice of Exhibits (1)-(14) which  Plaintiffs filed a response to. Plaintiffs do not object the exhibits’  admissibility, but instead, object to Defendant Trevino’s conclusions about  them. The Court agrees that the exhibits can be judicially noticed as to their  existence and not as to Defendant’s conclusions asserting that the Court take  notice of “widespread media coverage and other publicity regarding this matter,  much of which has publicly disclosed the names of one or both of the Plaintiffs’.”  (Resp. to Def’s RJN, pg. 2.)  Furthermore,  Plaintiffs wish this Court to be in receipt of the following facts about the  foregoing exhibits: ·        Eleven of the exhibits are dated after this lawsuit  was filed (RJN Exhibits 1-9, 12-13);  ·        Seven of the exhibits are from 2024 and are about  Jane Doe 3’s book (RJN Exhibits 3-8, 12); and  ·       Two are from 2000  and 2004 (RJN Exhibit 10, 14). Thus, the Court grants Defendant’s Request and hereby judicially  notices Exhibits (1)-(14) as to their existence.  Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice Plaintiffs move the court to grant judicial notice of Exhibits  (1)-(3) which contain the following documents: 1.      Brief of Voices in Action as Amicus Curiae in  Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion to Proceed Using Pseudonyms, filed on January 12,  2024, in Case No. 22GDCV01128, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 1.  2.     Brief of Caroline  Heldman, Ph.D., Stand with Survivors in Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion to  Proceed Using Pseudonyms, filed on January 12, 2024, in Case No. 22GDCV01128, a  copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2.  3.     Order granting  Plaintiffs’ Motion to Proceed Using Pseudonyms, entered on March 25, 2024, in  Case No. 22GDCV01128, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.  Defendant Trevino does not object or oppose the exhibits therein.  The Court hereby grants judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ Exhibits (1)-(3).   IV.     LEGAL  STANDARD “‘[A]  party may preserve his or her anonymity in judicial proceedings in special  circumstances when the party’s need for anonymity outweighs prejudice to the  opposing party and the public’s interest in knowing the party’s  identity.’”  (Doe v. Lincoln Unified  School Dist. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 758, 767, quoting Does I thru XXIII  v. Advanced Textile Corp. (9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068.) A court may  permit plaintiffs to use pseudonyms in three situations: “(1) when  identification creates a risk of retaliatory physical or mental harm [Citation];  (2) when anonymity is necessary ‘to preserve privacy in a matter of sensitive  and highly personal nature’ [Citation]; and (3) when the anonymous party is  ‘compelled to admit [his or her] intention to engage in illegal conduct,  thereby risking criminal prosecution.’” (Does I thru XXIII v. Advanced  Textile Corp. (9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068.) Where the request for  anonymity is based on the purported need “to preserve privacy in a matter of  sensitive and highly personal nature,” the proper test is whether “the party’s  need for anonymity outweighs prejudice to the opposing party and the public’s  interest in knowing the party’s identity.” (Id.; Doe v. Lincoln  Unified School District (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 758, 767.)   “[F]ictitious names are allowed when necessary  to protect the privacy of children, rape victims, and other particularly  vulnerable parties or witnesses.” (Doe v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield  United of Wisconsin (7th Cir. 1997) 112 F.3d 869, 872.)           The decision whether to allow a party to proceed by  pseudonym is a constitutional question that courts of appeal review under an  independent judgment standard.  (Department  of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court (2022) 82 Cal. App. 5th  105, 112.) DISCUSSION           a. General Nature of This Case This  is a case involving allegations of childhood sexual abuse/assault. Plaintiffs  cite numerous cases involving childhood sexual assault victims being allowed to  proceed anonymously due to the sensitive nature of the case. (See, e.g., Doe  No. 2 v. Kolko 195 (E.D.N.Y. 2006) 242 F.R.D. 193; Doe v. Evans  (E.D. Pa. 2001) 202 F.R.D. 173, 17; Doe v. Superior Ct. (2011) 194  Cal.App.4th 750, 752-753; Doe v. Epic Games, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2020) 453  F.Supp.3d 1024, 1045.)  Courts in other  jurisdictions have recognized that the risk of retaliatory physical or mental  harm may justify anonymity of the plaintiffs in certain circumstances. (See,  e.g., Southern Methodist Univ. Assoc. of Women Law Students v. Wynne &  Jaffe (5th Cir. 1979) 599 F.2d 707, 713; Does I thru XXIII v. Advanced  Textile Corp. (9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068.) b.  Did Plaintiffs Insert Themselves into the Public Eye? In her opposition, Defendant Trevino urges that public access to  the courts is constitutionally required, citing CRC 2.550(c). CRC 2.550(c)  provides that courts are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required  by law. (CRC 2.550(c).) Defendant Trevino further argues that because  Plaintiffs’ names have already been in the public sphere, they are not entitled  to privacy. (See Sipple v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1984) 154  Cal.App.3d 1040, 1047.) (Opp., pgs. 8-16.)  Defendant Trevino cites case law for the  proposition that a pseudonym is not warranted when a Plaintiff’s name is  already known to the public in connection with the issues in the case. (See Doe v. Megless (3d Cir. 2011) 654  F.3d 404, 410.) (Opp., pg. 9.)  Defendant  Trevino  also cites United States Supreme Court case Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn (1975)  420 U.S. 469, 494-95 (“the interests in privacy fade when the information  involved already appears on the public record”); and California Appellate law  case, Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 724 (no privacy right as to  the identity of a victim of sexual abuse who had already disclosed her identity  in a publicly filed document). (Opp., pg. 8, footnote ¶13.)  However, the Court finds these last two cases not entirely on  point.  First, each case involves  litigation in which plaintiffs sued Defendants for torts related to invasion of  privacy and public disclosure of private facts.   The cases addressed the question of whether plaintiffs had grounds not  to prevent disclosure but to seek damages and relief for past disclosures.  Second, both cases found that when facts had been disclosed to the public  through a public filing with the judiciary, any disclosures thereafter were not  actionable via statute or tort law as unlawful disclosures and invasions of  privacy. The case at bar involves neither assertion. That is, Defendant Trevino  does not argue that Plaintiffs made their cases public through filing documents  with the Court containing their names.   Furthermore, Defendant Trevino is not defending herself against an  action for a breach of privacy tort or violation of privacy statute.   Plaintiff  KC 1 admits that she gave public interviews in 2002 and earlier about the  alleged abuse. (Menzies Decl. Exh. 1: KC Declaration ¶¶ 27, 28.) Plaintiff KC  also urges that she is not on social media now.   In their reply, Plaintiffs urge that though their names are known in the  public sphere, the potential for social media backlash (which has apparently already  occurred) supports their request to proceed with pseudonyms. (Reply p. 4).  c.  Social Media           In their motion, Plaintiffs assert that Defendant Trevino,  Trevino’s spouse, and fans of Trevino have already started posting messages  about the case, harassing Plaintiffs and threatening them. (Mot., pgs. 10-11.) Specifically,  Plaintiffs attach tweets by Trevino’s husband, Armando Gomez. These tweets  concern this case and the two Plaintiffs whom Defendant opposes in the instant  motion.[1] (See (1/4/23  Tweet) “Everything in due time at least they continue to feed what they have  been so scared of for years...”; (6/30/23 Tweet) “Let what has to burn burn and  whoever has to burn ….” (Mot., pg. 11.)  It  would not be unreasonable for Plaintiffs to find these tweets threatening. Additionally,  Plaintiffs assert that another survivor of abuse has received death threats  from Trevino’s fans over the social media app Instagram. Specifically, the  woman posted a photo of her family attending a soccer game and in response,  someone posted in a comment “This one [the woman’s son] will die soon, you will  pay for what you did to Gloria’s daughter.” (KC Decl., ¶ 55.) Plaintiffs  also note calls for support Defendant Trevino has made at her concerts (KC  Decl. ¶¶ 43-48). Moreover, Defendant Portillo has started a podcast and made  reference to the abuse allegations at the heart of this case. (KC Decl., ¶ 49;  Decl., ¶¶ 55-56.)  In  support of their motion, Plaintiffs provide their own declarations and  affidavits. (Mot., Exs. 1-8.) The declarations state “I am extremely fearful  that, if forced to use my name rather than a pseudonym in this lawsuit, nothing  will prevent the defendants, their fans, the media, people on social media and  anyone else from identifying me as one of the victims who brought this action,  and I will be personally targeted and attacked by name.” (See K.C Affidavit, ¶  30, Doe 3 Affidavit, ¶ 72, and Doe 4 Affidavit, ¶55.) Jane Doe KC states that  she has been re-traumatized by Defendants’ comments, and fears further  re-traumatization. (Id. at ¶ 53.) Jane Does 3 and 4 make the same  assertion. (Doe 3 Affidavit, ¶ 95; Doe 4 Affidavit, ¶ 78.) In  her opposition, Defendant Trevino argues that Plaintiffs’ assertions about harm  they would suffer if not allowed to proceed anonymously are unsupported by  evidence and Plaintiffs fail to establish how the disclosure of their names  would cause extraordinary hardship. (Opp., pg. 13.)  The Court notes that Defendant Trevino does  not cite legal authority requiring a showing of extraordinary hardship, nor  defining a standard for it. Furthermore, Defendant Trevino relies on the  argument that this is an unusual case, which has been the subject of widespread  discussion in the press, on social media, in books, magazines, television  shows, news reports, and elsewhere for many years. (Opp., pg. 2.)  Defendant  contends that Plaintiff’s Motion is calculated to further an ongoing publicity  campaign by the various Plaintiffs to smear Defendant Trevino  by “implying to the public that this action  has been commenced by new, unknown accusers—when in reality, these same  plaintiffs have been making these same allegations in public and under their  own names for decades, and continue to do so in the media and via an upcoming  book release in August.” (Opp., pg. 2.) Defendant Trevino asserts that Jane Doe  3 has a new book about the underlying events, which is set to be released  worldwide in August 2024 under Jane Doe’s real name. (Opp., pg. 3.) Thus,  Defendant Trevino concludes that Plaintiffs cannot establish an overriding  privacy interest because their identities and allegations have been widely  known to the public for decades. (Opp., pg. 2.) On  Reply, Plaintiffs do not dispute Defendant Trevino’s contention that Jane Doe 3  is publishing a book, nor that Jane Does 3 and 4 have both made statements in  the media in the past.  Plaintiffs do not  dispute that there has been substantial media of the underlying events in this case.  However, Jane Doe 3 disputes Defendant’s argument of a waived privacy interest  by asserting it is not that she fears the public being aware of her story or  the underlying allegations. Instead, Doe 3 asserts that her book concerns  numerous victims, so the general public is not and should not be aware of which  victims have filed the underlying action. Thus, the publicity surrounding the underlying  events does not nullify Plaintiffs’ needs for privacy because Plaintiffs fear  threats, intimidation, and harassment, which could result from the general  public being made aware that they are the litigants in this case.  Plaintiffs  contend that what is not publicly known is which of the many alleged victims known  to the public are plaintiffs in this case.   (Reply, pg. 3.) Plaintiff Doe 3’s published book does not identify her  or the other two Does as Plaintiffs in this case. (Reply, pg. 4.) Plaintiffs do  not identify themselves in the media or through any other public medium as the  victims who have sued Defendant specifically because they fear harassment,  threats, and retaliation. (Id.) As such, Plaintiffs privacy interest is  not their privacy as victims but as litigants taking legal action against  Defendant Trevino who, Plaintiffs claim, has the money, power, and fame to  exert her influence and cause further chilling-effect not just on Plaintiffs,  but on other similarly situated victims. Plaintiffs do not wish their status as  litigants to result in mistreatment or intimidation which could deter future  victims from seeking justice from the legal system.  d.  Potential Prejudice to Defendant Trevino Lastly,  Defendant Trevino urges that she will suffer severe prejudice if the motion is  granted. (Opp., pgs. 2, 14.) Specifically, she argues that she will be  prejudiced because proceeding by pseudonyms would dramatically increase the  challenges and costs of third-party discovery if Defendants cannot freely  disclose the identities of the Plaintiffs to witnesses or other courts. (Opp.,  pg. 14.) Moreover, the case at bar concerns cross-claims of sexual assault in  which Defendant Trevino asserts that Defendant (and Cross-Defendant) Andrade  sexually assaulted her and that Plaintiffs were complicit. (Id.) Defendant  Trevino also cites negative press she has received as a result of the lawsuit,  implying Plaintiffs should be exposed to similar scrutiny.  (See Opposition pg. 7, 14.) The Court finds  these arguments unconvincing, particularly given that this case involves the alleged  sexual assault of minors.  e.  The Circumstances Weigh In Favor Of Using Pseudonyms The  Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown a reasonable fear of severe harm.  This case is highly sensitive, involving allegations  of sexual assault and abusive treatment of children by, among others, a highly  popular public figure with a large fan base. The fact that these Plaintiffs are  now adult women does not negate this reasonable fear of severe harm.   While  this motion involves important considerations on both sides, the Court finds  that the circumstances as a whole weigh in favor of permitting Plaintiffs to  proceed using pseudonyms.  The risk of  harm to the Plaintiffs -- physical as well as emotional -- compels this  conclusion.  This is especially so in the  current time, where the use of social media is so ubiquitous and the potential  consequences of such use are so dire.             V.       CONCLUSION  AND ORDER           The Plaintiffs’ motion to proceed by using pseudonyms is GRANTED. Counsel  for Plaintiffs is ordered to give notice.                 Dated:  September 5, 2024                                                                                                                                            JARED D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO SEAL PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO PROCEED UNDER PSEUDONYMS
AND DEFENDNANT’S MOTION TO SEAL OPPOSITIONI.        INTRODUCTION          In this action, Plaintiffs Jane Doe KC 1, Jane Doe 3, Jane
Doe 4 allege Defendants Gloria De Los Angeles Trevino Ruiz aka Gloria Trevi
(herein “Defendant Trevino”); Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez aka Sergio
Andrade; and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary Boquitas and Mary
Raquenel (herein “Defendant Andrade” and Defendant Portillo”) sexually abused
Plaintiffs while Plaintiffs were children. Defendants are a music group and
colloquially known today as the “Trevi-Andrade Clan.” Notably, Defendant
Trevino was and continues to be a celebrity in Mexico due to her prominence as
a pop star. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants used their power, money, and fame
to recruit Plaintiffs into their entourage and inflict ongoing sexual,
physical, and mental abuse against Plaintiffs, including beating them with
electrical cords, forcing them to work and exercise for hours, and withholding
food and sleep. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants forced Plaintiff Jane
Doe KC to eat trash and restricted her food only to trash.           On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant action
pursuant to the California Child Victims Act. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) which is now the operative complaint,
alleging fifteen causes of action for the following five claims with respect to
each of the three Plaintiffs: (1) sexual battery (civil code § 1708.5); (2)
sexual assault; (3)battery; (4) intentional and/or negligent infliction of
emotional distress (IIED); and (5) aiding and abetting sexual battery, sexual
assault, battery, and intentional/negligent infliction of emotional distress.
Before the Court is a Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonyms filed concurrently
with the Declaration of Plaintiffs’ attorney, Karen Barth Menzies which moves
the Court to protect Plaintiffs’ privacy interests and minimize the risk of
threat, harassment, or intimidation that may come with the filing of the
instant action. That same day, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Seal Plaintiffs’
Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonyms. Defendant
Trevino Ruiz filed her Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion to Proceed Under
Pseudonyms on July 24, 2024, along with Evidentiary Objections and a Request
for Judicial Notice. Defendant also filed Motion to Seal as to Defendant’s
Opposition. On
July 25, 2024, a Stipulation of a continuance was granted to continue the
hearing of the instant motion to September 5, 2024. On
August 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Reply, a Request for Judicial Notice, a
Response to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, a Proposed Order, and a
Motion to Seal Plaintiffs’ Reply.  Both
Plaintiffs’ and Defendant’s Motion to Seal are unopposed.  II.      LEGAL
STANDARDThe
court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds
facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest. (California Rules of Court Rule 2.550, subd.
(d).) California
Rules of Court Rule 2.551 sets forth the procedure for filing records under
seal, namely, that a motion or application must be filed and served on all
parties to the action. (CRC 2.551(b).) DISCUSSION          Plaintiffs
assert that Defendants are already aware of the Plaintiffs’ identities (Menzies
Decl., ¶ 4) and that the Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonyms and accompanying
exhibits contain information that could be used to identify them to the public.
Thus, Plaintiffs’ anonymity as litigants would be destroyed without the sealing
of the current pleadings. Defendant Trevino argues that the moving and
opposition papers include Plaintiffs’ names (Vasquez Decl., ¶ 4) and that the filing
of these documents would impact Plaintiffs’ anonymity if filed without
redaction or seal. Defendant clarifies that she does not agree there is any
overriding interest in the anonymity of Plaintiffs. However, to the extent that
the Court ultimately concludes otherwise, any overriding interest would be
materially prejudiced by the failure to maintain portions of the papers under
seal. Thus, Defendant Trevino’s motion is narrowly tailored and seeks only to
seal portions of the Opposition to the Pseudonym Motion that could potentially
enable the public to determine the Plaintiffs’ true names.  (Def. Mot. Seal Opp., pg. 4.)Here, because the documents reference
potentially sensitive information (information that would reveal the identities
of alleged sexual abuse survivors), the Court finds that an overriding interest
exists to supports sealing the records. Given that the Court is granting Plaintiffs’
motion to proceed using pseudonyms, it follows that the Court must also order
the moving and opposition papers sealed to protect Plaintiffs’ anonymity. The
interest in preserving that anonymity overrides the need for immediate public
disclosure in these circumstances. Although Defendant Trevino seeks her opposition
be sealed only as to portions of it that could enable the public to guess
Plaintiffs’ true names, the Court finds that the moving and opposition papers
should be sealed entirely.           VI. CONCLUSION AND ORDER          The Plaintiffs’ motion to seal their moving papers and
Defendant’s motion to seal her Opposition is GRANTED.Counsel
for Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.                    Dated:  September 5, 2024                                                                                                                                   JARED
D. MOSES    JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT







































                                                                                                                                               