 Case Number:  22TRCV15708    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
PAULA
  RENEE PRUITT, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV15708




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
PROVIDENCE
  HEALTH SYSTEM – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 30,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Providence Health
System – Southern California
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Paula Renee Pruitt
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers. 
RULING
The demurrer to the first cause of
action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first cause of action and prayer at
no. 1 for attorney’s fees and prayer at no. 3 for punitive and exemplary
damages.  
BACKGROUND
On May 11, 2022, plaintiff Paula
Renee Pruitt filed a complaint against Providence Health System – Southern
California dba Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center Torrance, Knd
Development 53, LLC dba Kindred Hospital South Bay, Kindred Healthcare Operating,
LLC, and Hosayn Khaleeli for (1) dependent adult abuse/neglect and (2) medical
negligence.
On November 16, 2023, plaintiff
dismissed Knd Development 53, LLC dba Kindred Hospital South Bay, Kindred
Healthcare Operating LLC, and Hosayn Khaleeli.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Providence demurs to the
first cause of action for dependent adult abuse/neglect on the grounds that it fails
to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that
plaintiff was a patient at Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center
Torrance and its associated Transitional Care Center at various times between
February 6, 2021 and April 7, 2021.  Plaintiff
was also a patient at Kindred Hospital South Bay between April 7, 2021 and
January 22, 2022.  While a patient at
defendants’ institutions, she was a dependent adult as defined in Welf. &
Inst. Code §15610.23.  Hosayn Khaleeli is
a physician who had the responsibility for the care and treatment of
plaintiff.  Complaint, ¶1.  While plaintiff was a patient of defendants’
healthcare institutions, she was bedridden, helpless, and totally reliant on
the hospital care providers for all of her needs including nutrition and
repositioning.  As a result of improper
withholding of care and reckless neglect, she developed several decubitus
ulcers including at least one Stage IV decubitus ulcer.  These defendants and their agents and
employees were either plaintiff’s “care custodians” as defined by Welf. &
Inst. Code §15610.17, or her medical providers who owed a professional duty of
care.  Id., ¶2.
            First
cause of action for elder abuse
In order to state a cause of action
under the Elder Abuse Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially
equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.” Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 789.   There must be a showing of recklessness,
fraud, malice, or oppression.  Id.
at 783.
“[T]he facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.”  Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407
(citing Covenant Care). 
“Allegations of misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not
state a cause of action against another defendant against whom the allegations
of misconduct are not directed.”  Id.
at 410 (citation omitted).  “[W]hen a
plaintiff asserts a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is
nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.”  Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc.
(2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation omitted).  Citing to the content of the definition of
“neglect” in Welf. and Inst. Code §15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated,
“[w]hat they each seem to contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking
or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has
assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of
an elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.
(2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58.  “What seems
beyond doubt is that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing between –
and decidedly not lumping together – claims of professional negligence and
neglect.”  Id. at 159.
The complaint alleges that as care
custodians of plaintiff, defendants owed duties of care to her but recklessly
neglected her health needs and violated applicable federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and codes that apply to those providing services to persons such
as plaintiff. Among defendants’ acts and omissions constituting a withholding
of care and reckless neglect were the failure to monitor and assess the
condition of plaintiff’s skin, the failure to properly reposition her while
confined to bed, and the failure to adequately monitor plaintiff’s nutrition
all of which was necessary to prevent the formation of decubitus ulcers.  Complaint, ¶11.  The conduct of defendants constituted
statutory neglect of plaintiff as defined by Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.57.  Said defendants and/or agents and employees
under their supervision, recklessly neglected plaintiff and withheld essential care
and services from her and allowed her skin integrity to deteriorate to such a
degree that a Stage IV decubitus ulcer was permitted to form.  Id., ¶12. 
At all times, defendants authorized, ratified, assisted and encouraged
the acts of all nurses by failing to establish and implement skin care policies
and procedures and by failing to sufficiently train/retrain their employees,
and by failing to take other reasonable actions to ensure that the dependent
patients in their care and custody, including plaintiff, were not neglected or
abused in violation of the Elder/Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect Act.  Id., ¶13. Defendants knew that if they did
not comply with respective duties of care, and if they did not provide adequate
care, supervision, reassessment, appropriate care planning, and provision of
care consistent with the plan of care, plaintiff would probably sustain serious
skin injury.  In particular, and without
limiting
the generality of the foregoing, defendants knew that because plaintiff was in
a totally dependent state, she was unable to voice complaints of pain or demand
that she be fed or repositioned.  These
defendants also knew that their failure to provide such care as appropriate
would pose the peril that plaintiff would suffer serious pain and suffering as
a result of the formation of decubitus ulcers. 
Id., ¶16.
Defendant argues that allegations
relative to the provision of substandard medical services by a hospital “have
the gravamen of a theory of medical negligence, not elder abuse” and that the
patient-medical provider relationship is not the sort of relationship the
Legislature was addressing in the Elder Abuse Act.  Defendant also asserts that theories of
professional negligence and elder abuse are mutually exclusive.  Defendant further contends that Providence’s
hospital services do not implicate elder abuse because the services were not
for the basic needs that “an able-bodied adult would ordinarily manage without
assistance.”  Defendant argues that
plaintiff’s allegations that Providence failed to properly assess, reposition,
and provide adequate nutrition to plaintiff to prevent skin breakdown and the
formation of pressure injuries does not transform the hospital from its
capacity as provider of medical services to just a care custodian.  Moreover, defendant argues, plaintiff has
failed to plead with particularity.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient, and that alternative pleading is not
subject to demurrer.  Plaintiff also
contends that hospital nurses can be liable for elder neglect.  Plaintiff further asserts that she has alleged
with sufficient particularity.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to meet the elements.  The allegations do not show oppression,
fraud, or malice or a conscious disregard of the high probability of such
injury (decubitus ulcers, including Stage IV). 
Plaintiff has also not alleged with sufficient factual particularity.  As to moving defendant, it appears that
plaintiff is alleging that she was a patient at both the hospital and
transitional care facility over a period of two months at various times.  Plaintiff has only generally alleged moving
defendant’s conduct that purportedly caused plaintiff’s decubitus ulcers,
including a Stage IV one.  Plaintiff also
lumps defendants together and does not allege the specific conduct of moving
defendant, whether it be at the hospital or transitional care facility.  Further, the allegations are insufficient as
to ratification as they are conclusory.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Motion to Strike
            Defendant Providence requests that
the court strike the first cause of action in its entirety, prayer at no. 1 for
attorney’s fees and at no. 3 for punitive and exemplary damages. 
In light of the ruling on the first
cause of action, the motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.        
ORDER
The demurrer to the first cause of
action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first cause of action and prayer at
no. 1 for attorney’s fees and prayer at no. 3 for punitive and exemplary
damages.  
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling. 