 Case Number:  23TRCV04009    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MAHIN
  GOLCHIN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04009




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LAX
  PHYSICAL MEDICINE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 30,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants LAX Physical
Medicine and Matthew Araghi
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Mahin Golchin
Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first
cause of action in the FAC.  Defendants
are ordered to file an answer within 20 days.
BACKGROUND
            On December 6, 2023, plaintiff Mahin
Golchin filed a complaint against LAX Physical Medicine, LAX Physical Therapy,
and Matthew Araghi for general negligence; and against DJO Global, Inc. for
product liability.  
            On January 26, 2024, plaintiff filed
an amendment designating Doe 1 as Matthew Szkalak.
            On March 14, 2024, the court
sustained defendants LAX Physical Medicine and Matthew Araghi’s demurrer with
leave to amend based on uncertainty because there were no allegations against
LAX Physical Medicine.
            On March 14, 2024, plaintiff filed a
FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants LAX Physical Medicine
and Matthew Araghi demur to the first cause of action for general negligence in
the complaint on the ground that it fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action.
Under the first cause of action for
negligence, the FAC alleges that on September 5, 2023, plaintiff was a patient
of LAX Physical Therapy and LAX Physical Medication, which are subsidiaries and
DBA businesses owned, operated, controlled, and supervised by owner defendant
Matthew Araghi.  Defendants, including
LAX Physical Therapy and LAX Physical Medicine, both working at the control,
order, and supervision of Araghi, agreed to perform and undertook to perform physical
therapy services for plaintiff, including heat pads for her legs.  Defendant Araghi, treating plaintiff at LAX
Physical Therapy and LAX Physical Medicine, owed a reasonable duty of
observation, attention, examination, evaluation, diagnosis, proper and safe
treatment of plaintiff while she was under their care for treating her leg pain
at their therapy centers.  Defendants negligently
failed to conform to the standard of care and duty owed with respect to the
care and treatment rendered to plaintiff when she was prescribed heat pads at
defendants, under the control of Araghi, without proper care, supervision,
administration, that burned plaintiff’s legs, causing her permanent injuries.
Defendants argue that although
plaintiff is asserting a cause of action for “general negligence,” the
allegations sound in medical malpractice, and that plaintiff fails to allege a
cause of action for medical malpractice. 
Defendants argue that the two causes of action, while both rooted in
negligence, “are two distinct and separate theories with different standards
and difference recoveries.”  Demurrer, at
5.  Yet, defendants cite to Flowers v.
Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 992,
997-98, which determined that there are no “separate and independent”
distinctions between a claim for ordinary negligence and professional
negligence as to the elements of duty, breach, causation, and damages.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that she has properly pled the elements for negligence.
The court rules as follows:  Courts must overrule a demurrer if the
complaint states a cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title of
the cause of action.  See Quelimane
Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (“If the
complaint states a cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title
under which the factual basis for relief is stated, that aspect of
the¿complaint¿is good against a demurrer”). 
At the pleading stage, the court need not, and should not, decide whether
this case is a general negligence case or a medical negligence case.  As defendant’s own citation to Flowers,
supra, indicates, the difference between a general negligence case and a
medical negligence case is if the wrongdoer is a professional, the factfinder
considers additional circumstances in determining what constitutes ordinary
prudence in the situation.  See also Donnelly
v. Southern Pacific Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 871 (“There are no ‘degrees’
of care, as a matter of law; there are only different amounts of care, as a
matter of fact . . . .”).  So long as the
complaint states a cause of action under any theory, the factual distinctions
between the “amounts of care” that may have been owed by moving defendants are
not relevant on demurrer, and such factual issues cannot be resolved on
demurrer.
            The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient as to the elements to constitute a cause of action
against defendants, regardless of the title of the cause of action.
            The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.
ORDER
            The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.  Defendants are
ordered to file an answer within 20 days.
            Defendant’s request that the Court
issue an order under CCP §
116.1 is DENIED.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.