 Case Number:  22STCV18887    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      6/9/22 
 
¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative
Ruling 
 
Hearing Date:           3/13/2024 
Case No./Name:       22STCV18887 YOUNATAN SAMOUHA vs KAMYAR ANSARI,
et al.
Motion:                    MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant Tal Ohana
Notice:                     Sufficient¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling:                     Plaintiff's motion to vacate the
dismissal of Defendants Massachi and Crystal Investments is DENIED
 
Plaintiff's motion to vacate the dismissal of Defendant
Ohana is GRANTED.
 
Background 
 
On 6/9/22, Plaintiff filed the
original complaint alleging he was violently thrown by a security guard at an
event hosted by Defendants on 5/11/21. On 9/22/22, Plaintiff filed the first
amended complaint against Defendants Kamyar Ansari, Botanique, Crystal
Investments LLC, Albert Massachi, and Tal Ohana. On 2/21/23, Defendants Leon
Group and Stranger Than Us LLC were added to the lawsuit. On 4/10/23, Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Albert Massachi and Crystal Investments, LLC. On 6/13/23,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Tal Ohana.
 
On 11/15/23, Plaintiff moved to
vacate these dismissals, attributing the decision to the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect. Plaintiff asserts that there was an
agreement with the Defendants, stipulating that the litigation would focus on
Stranger Than Us LLC and Leon Group, contingent upon the cooperation of these
entities following the dismissal of Massachi, Crystal Investments, and Ohana.
However, Plaintiff claims that, contrary to this agreement, the Defendants have
not engaged in meaningful settlement discussions or fulfilled their cooperation
promises. Consequently, Plaintiff now moves the court to set aside the
dismissals of Massachi, Crystal Investments, and Ohana.
Legal Standard 
 “It is … well
established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the
merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved
in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in
court and a trial upon the merits.”  (Frank E. Beckett
Co. v. Bobbitt (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d
Supp. 921, 928.)  
CCP
Section 473, subdivision (b) provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly
differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or
proceedings in the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.) “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a
showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court
has discretion to allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against’ a party or his or her attorney.  Under the
mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court shall
vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’” (Ibid.,
internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd.
(b).)   
 
An application for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) must be made within a reasonable time and in no case
exceeding six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought. 
Analysis and Conclusion 
Plaintiff's motion to vacate the
dismissals of Defendants Albert Massachi and Crystal Investments, LLC is
untimely, as these parties were dismissed on April 10, 2023, and the motion was
not filed until November 15, 2023, exceeding six months. Thus, Plaintiff's
motion to vacate the dismissal of Defendants Massachi and Crystal Investments
is too late.
Plaintiff's motion to vacate the
dismissal of Defendant Ohana is timely and is supported by an affidavit from
Plaintiff's attorney, Joshua Kohanbash, acknowledging his mistake,
inadvertence, or negligence. For mandatory relief from a dismissal due to an
attorney's fault, California law requires only a demonstration of the
attorney's neglect, without necessitating that the neglect be excusable. (J.A.T.
Entertainment, Inc. v. Reed (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 1485, 1492.) The
affidavit suggests that Plaintiff's counsel was negligent as he relied on
promises from the opposing party without specific written agreement for
cooperation in exchange for dismissing Defendant Ohana.
The Court is not persuaded by
Defendant's various miscellaneous arguments against mandatory relief. First,
the statute of limitations has not lapsed as the addition of Ohana relates back
to the original complaint. Second, the court retains jurisdiction over the case
since the case itself has not been dismissed. 
For the foregoing reasons,
Plaintiff's motion to vacate the dismissal of Defendant Ohana is GRANTED; the
same motion is DENIED as to Defendants Massachi and Crystal Investments.
 ¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 