  Case Number:  19STCV10557    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      3/27/2019 
¿¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           3/13/2024
Case No./Name:       19STCV10557 OLEKSANDR MELNYK vs
BEVERLY HILLS BMW, et al. 
Motion:                              DEFENDANT’S MOTION
TO COMPEL REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET FIVE
Moving Party:                 Defendant BEVERLY HILLS BMW
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                     Sufficient¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, SET FIVE, IS GRANTED.¿ 
 
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
IS GRANTED.  
 
Background
 
On March 26, 2019, Plaintiff filed the present
lawsuit, alleging that Defendant was negligent in repairing his vehicle,
causing him to crash his car. On June 9, 2023, Defendant Beverly Hills BMW
served its Request for Production of Documents (Set Five) on Plaintiff. On July
11, 2023, Defendant granted Plaintiff's request for a 30-day extension to serve
the discovery response at issue by August 11, 2023. However, Plaintiff did not
serve any responses by this deadline. Subsequently, Defendant had numerous correspondences
with Plaintiff to provide the discovery responses without objections. Despite
these requests, Plaintiff has failed to provide the discovery responses.
Defendant now moves the court to compel Plaintiff to provide discovery
responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set Five). In
opposition, Defendant argues that (a) Plaintiff’s motion did not include a
separate statement, (b) Plaintiff’s attorney had already provided a response
through a phone call, and (c) the documents requested are protected by the work
product doctrine. The opposition does not dispute that no discovery responses
have been served.
Legal Standard
 
  A plaintiff
may make a demand for production of documents and propound interrogatories
without leave of court at any time 10 days after the service of the summons on,
or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs
first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020,
subd. (b).) The demand for production of documents is not limited by number,
but the request must comply with the formatting requirements in Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.030. A party may propound 35 specially prepared
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action
and any additional number of official form interrogatories that are relevant to
the subject matter of the pending action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd.
(a)(1) - (a)(2).)   
¿ 
The party whom the request is
propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a
demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and
confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a)
- (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)¿¿ 
¿ 
If a party fails to timely respond
to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request
is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
 
Analysis
 
 
It is
undisputed that Plaintiff did not serve timely initial responses to Defendant's
Request for Production, Set Five. Despite several extensions granted by
Defendant, no responses were provided. Plaintiff, in the opposition, made
several arguments that the Court finds unpersuasive. First, Plaintiff claimed
to have responded to the discovery requests based on his counsel's telephone
call and email to Defendant’s counsel. However, these communications do not
equate to verified discovery responses. Second, contrary to Plaintiff’s
contentions, a separate statement is not required for a motion to compel
initial responses. (Cal Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345.) Third, Plaintiff's
attempt to now raise the work product objection is moot because the responses are
untimely, thereby waiving any objections. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a)) 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
compel is GRANTED and Plaintiff is hereby ORDERED to provide verified discovery
responses without objections within 30 days of today.¿ 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s failure to serve timely
discovery requests necessitated the present motion to compel. Defendant
requests $1725 in attorney’s fees. Due to the simplicity of the issues
involved, the Court exercises its discretion to reduce the sanctions to $1000.
Plaintiff and his counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions
of $1000 to Defendant within 20 days of today’s date.  
 
¿¿ 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
 