 Case Number:  23VECV01887    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  W AARON
KOONCE V. KIA MOTORS AMERICA, INC.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:        March
27, 2024                                             Trial Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        23VECV01887
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Aaron Koonce           
Responding Party:     Defendant
Kia Motors America, Inc.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Cohen Decl. ¶¶9-21.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On May 1, 2023, Plaintiff Aaron Koonce
filed a complaint against Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc. for Violation of
Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code
Section 1793.2; and Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Aaron Koonce moves for an order to strike
Defendant Kia Motors’ meritless objections and compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents to Defendant, Set One Nos. 1,
2, 3, 7, 17, 20, 22, 24, 30, 35, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 48, 54, 55, 56, 65, 73,
75, 76, 77, and 85 (collectively, the “Requests”) and production of all
responsive documents corresponding to those Requests. Plaintiff makes the
motion on the grounds Defendant has failed to provide adequate responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests, which seek documents directly relevant to their Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act claims, and failed to meet and confer with Plaintiffs in good
faith. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
 
Upon receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete; a representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too
general. (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
 
Plaintiff argues each and every request in RFP seeks
discovery regarding Transmission Defects in other 2019 Kia Niro vehicles;
however, Kia has responded by either limiting the scope of discovery to include
only the Subject Vehicle, or by claiming in some responses an inability to
comply. Moreover, Kia has not produced all responsive documents. According to
Plaintiff, the requested documents are relevant to the issues related to Kia’s
good faith compliance with the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, including
the breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, as well as Plaintiff’s
negligent repair claim. Moreover, Plaintiff is entitled to internal
investigation, analyses and correspondence (i.e., emails) in cases brought
under the Song-Beverly Act. (See Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 334, 347.) 
 
Kia first opposes the motion on the grounds Plaintiff did
not sufficiently meet and confer. The parties dispute whether the meet and
confer was sufficient. The court has reviewed the submitted correspondence and
has reservations about whether either party made a good faith effort to
informally resolve the dispute. 
Nevertheless, as the correspondence makes clear that the parties have
reached an impasse as to this issue, the court will address the motion on its
merits.  (See Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 332.)  
 
Kia next opposes the motion on the grounds it has already
produced all documents that pertain to the Subject Vehicle and all responsive
policies and procedures. In reply, Plaintiff maintains to date, Kia has not
served Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One. The parties are ordered to meet and confer with what documents have
been actually produced. If they have not been so produced, as discussed further
below, Kia is to produce all documents pursuant to the Protective Order. 
 
Kia further argues the broad discovery that plaintiff seeks
is neither proportional to the amount in controversy nor important to resolving
the issues in this case. Specifically, the discovery requests propounded by
Plaintiff are vastly disproportionate to the claims at issue in this matter
involving only one vehicle. Kia contends Plaintiff’s discovery must be tailored
to the dispute in this lemon law case—Plaintiff’s vehicle. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
template Motion and the Declaration of Rosario Stoliker are devoid of any accurate
facts necessary to show good cause or other justification for the class action
style discovery that Plaintiff seeks.
 
The court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for
the documents sought. Good cause “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) Plaintiff has done so by demonstrating the documents
sought relate to Kia’s s good faith compliance with the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. Specifically, some of the requested documents may show that Kia
had knowledge of Plaintiff’s alleged defects from complaints by other consumers.
This is relevant to willfulness. However, the court finds the “Kia Vehicles”
definition should not be limited just to the defect alleged but should be
further limited to vehicles
purchased or leased in California of the same year, make, and model of the
subject vehicle, for the period of the date of purchase to the present. 
 
Lastly, Kia has provided no evidence that the quantum of
work required to perform these tasks will be so unduly burdensome that Kia
should be entirely excused from producing the requested documents. If Kia is
unable to produce any of the requested documents with the new limitations, Kia
is required to make a statement of inability to comply and affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made, and state why Kia is
unable to comply.  (See CCP §§
2031.10(a)(2), 2031.230.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED, in
part. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,160.00
due to Kia’s unjustifiable discovery obstruction, including its response to the
majority of the Requests consisting of meritless, boilerplate objections along
with severely deficient document production.
 
There being substantial justification, with merit to both
sides, the court denies the request for sanctions.¿¿¿ 