  Case Number:  20STCV38882    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Determination of Good Faith SettlementMoving Party: Defendants Best American Toxicology Testing Services LLC dba BATTS Laboratories (Doe 2); Defendant in Intervention Best American Toxicology Testing Services LLC Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a premises liability case. Plaintiff Evan McNiel (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on October 15, 2018 he fell through a T bar ceiling to the floor while working for Cantrell Aire at a property owned by Defendant Northwest Industrial Center. Defendant Best American Toxicology Testing Services (“BATTS”) — named as Doe 2 to the Complaint — had leased the premises from Northwest Industrial Center and contracted with Cantrell Aire for the duct work. BATTS was later named as a Defendant-in-Intervention in a Complaint-in-Intervention filed by Benchmark Insurance, the workers compensation carrier for Cantrell Aire which subrogates for payments it made to Plaintiff. Plaintiff later named Defendant The Bell Organization Ltd., dba Associates Material Handling, as Doe 5 (“AMH”). (Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, p. 4.)On August 22, 2024 the parties in the case including Plaintiff, BATTS and AMH, attended a mediation. Plaintiff claimed multiple injuries, with medical bills paid by Benchmark amounting to approximately $60,000, and disability payments of approximately $44,000. At the mediation, BATTS, Plaintiff, and Benchmark reached a tentative settlement of $75,000 — split evenly between Plaintiff and Benchmark — conditioned on the granting of a good faith settlement motion. The settlement was confirmed on August 27, 2024. BATTS requested a stipulation for good faith settlement from AMH, which refused.MOVING PARTY POSITIONBATTS argues the Court should grant the motion for determination of good faith settlement based on the settlement, contending the settlement was made in good faith after the recent completion of mediation and represents triple BATTS’ potential maximum liability, and far more than BATTS would owe if it were to prevail on its Privette defense. (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal. 4th 689.) BATTS contends there is no collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at the non-settling Defendants. OPPOSITIONNo opposition was filed in response to this motion. ANALYSISI. Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has commenced. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a).) [T]he intent and policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.] Finally, practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement. “[A] defendant's settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be.” [Citation.] The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue [citation], should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500 (Tech-Bilt).)  The Court finds BATTS’ motion is well-supported and construes the lack of opposition from the other parties to this action as a tacit admission that the motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶¿9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”]) The Court also notes the lack of opposition because there is no argument or evidence this settlement was made in bad faith, and the party asserting bad faith bears the burden of proof. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500.) Additionally, there is no indication that this settlement was the result of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at any other party.   Moreover, the Court finds the amount of $75,000.00 to be fair and reasonable considering the contested issues between the parties with respect to BATTS’ liability, the likelihood that BATTS would be found not liable, and the damages associated with Plaintiff’s injuries. Having no reason to conclude otherwise, the Court therefore finds that BATTS’ motion represents a good faith settlement.RULINGThe Court GRANTS BATTS’ motion for determination of good faith settlement. 