  Case Number:  22STCV23235    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, December 01, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV23235
CASE NAME:                        James Joseph Frank v. Evolv Integrated Technologies Group Inc., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants KBLED, Inc., All-In
Energy Group LLC, Kenneth Bruce Shaevel, Jamie Shaevel (erroneously sued herein
as Jaime Shaevel), and Bruce Merino
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff James Joseph Frank
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                    Special Motion to Stike First
Amended Complaint Pursuant to CCP § 425.16
OPPOSITION:                        20 October 2023
REPLY:                                  25
October 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         moving
Defendants’ special motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees is denied. Moving Defendants’ request for attorney’s fees as
the prevailing party shall be decided by separate motion. Court sets OSC re Why
Action Should Not Be Dismissed for December 22, 2023.   

                                                                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDING:                    Demurrer to FAC with Motion to Strike
 
OPPOSITION:                        20 October 2023
 
REPLY:                                  25
October 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Moving Defendants’ demurrer to FAC and motion
to strike are denied as moot.

                                                                                                                                                            

                                                                                                                                    
 
Background
 
On
July 19, 2022, James Joseph Frank filed a Complaint against Evolv Integrated
Technologies Group, Inc.; KBLED, Inc. (“KBLED”), All-In Energy Group LLC (“All-In”),
Inesa International Corp.; Feilo International
Trade Co. Ltd. (Felio”); Kenneth Bruce Shaevel (“Kenneth”), Jamie Shaevel (erroneously
sued herein as Jaime Shaevel) (“Jamie”), and Bruce Merino (“Merino”), and Does
1 to 50. 
 
The operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleges four causes of action: (1) breach of written contract
against Defendants Felio, Jamie, Merino and Does 1 to 50; (2) Declaratory
relief against all Defendants; (3) injunctive relief again all Defendants; and
(4) fraud against all Defendants. 
 
On July 19, 2023, Defendants
KBLED, All-In, Kenneth, Jamie, and Merino (collectively “Moving Defendants”)
filed a Special Motion to Strike the FAC pursuant to CCP § 425.16 and a
demurrer with a motion to strike the FAC. Plaintiff opposes. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
request for judicial notice
 
The Court may
take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United States.
(Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially notice the
existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
In support of their Special
Motion to Strike and Demurrer with Motion to Strike, Defendants request
judicial notice of the following documents filed in the underlying action entitled
Frank v. EVOLV Integrated Technologies Group, Inc. et al. (LASC Case No.
BC722025) and the Opinion of the Second District Court of Appeal Case No.
B31479: 
1)    
Fourth
Amended Complaint filed in Action 1, a true and correct copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
2)    
Motion for Security for Costs, a true and correct copy
of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.
3)    
Exhibits
to Motion for Security for Costs, a true and correct copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit 3.
4)    
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative for Summary Adjudication of Issues
(the “MSJ”) filed in Action 1 on December 18, 2021, a true and correct copy of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.
5)    
Exhibits
to Motion for Summary Judgment (deleting all Exbibits but “A” (Joint Venture
Agreement), “B” (EVOLV Shareholders’ Agreement), and “C” (Employment Agreement
sued on), a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 5. 
6)    
Second Supplemental Declaration of Rosemary
Amezcua-Moll dated June 7, 2021, filed in Opposition to MSJ, a true and correct
copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 6.
7)    
Minute Order
on Motion for Summary Judgment, a true and correct copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit 7.
8)    
Declaration of Rosemary Amezcua-Moll in support of
Motion to File Fifth Amended Complaint (Ex. “B” thereto, the proposed Fifth
Amended Complaint), a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit 8. 
9)    
Memorandum of Points and Authorities and Declaration of
Robert F. Kul in Opposition to Application to Continue Trial, a true and
correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 9.
10)
Notice of Ruling on Motion for Leave to Amend
(attaching Minute Order of August 27, 2021, denying leave to amend), a true and
correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10. 
11)
Judgment in Action 1 of September 10, 2022, a
true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 11.
12)
Respondents’
Brief on appeal, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit
12.
13)
Opinion
of the Court of Appeal issued April 18, 2023, on plaintiff James Joseph Frank’s
appeal from the Judgment in Action 1, a true and correct copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit 13.
14)
Notice
of Related Case filed in Action filed on September 12, 2022, a true and correct
copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 14.
15)
Minute
Order of September 23, 2021, deeming Action 1 to be related to this action and
reassigning Action 2 to Judge Daniel S. Murphy, a true and correct copy of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit 15.
16)
Peremptory
Challenge to Judicial Officer filed in this action September 27, 2022, a true and
correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 16.
Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is granted. 
Special Motion to Stike FIRst Amended Complaint Pursuant to CCP § 425.16.
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
CCP § 425.16
sets forth the procedure governing anti-SLAPP motions.¿ In pertinent part, the
statute provides: “A cause of action against a person arising from any act of
that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech
under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike,
unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (CCP § 425.16(b)(1).)
“[A]n anti-SLAPP motion, like a conventional motion to strike, may be used to
attack parts of a count as pleaded.” (Baral v. Schnitt¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) The purpose of
the statute is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid
exercise of a litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech. (CCP
§ 425.16(a); Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc.
(2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1055-1056.)¿¿ 
 
Courts employ a
two-step process to evaluate anti-SLAPP motions. (Equilon Enterprises v.
Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.) To invoke the protections
of the statute, the defendant must first show that the challenged lawsuit arises
from protected activity, such as an act in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech. (Ibid.) From this fact, courts “‘presume the purpose of
the action was to chill the defendant’s exercise of First Amendment rights.¿ It
is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.’” (Ibid.) In determining whether
the plaintiff has carried this burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings,
and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.” (CCP, § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39
Cal.4th 260, 291 (Soukup).)¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Moving Defendants seek an Order to
strike the FAC pursuant to CCP § 425.16 on the basis that Plaintiff’s action
arises out of Moving Defendants’ litigation actions in the underlying action,  Frank
v. EVOLV Integrated Technologies Group, Inc. et al. (LASC Case No. BC722025) and the Opinion of the
Second District Court of Appeal Case No. B31479 (hereinafter “Action 1”). In
other words, by filing this present action (“Action 2”), Plaintiff is seeking
to attack the judgment in Action 1. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the present action does not attack the
judgment in Action 1 because the present action adds new Defendants, asserts
new causes of action, and the prior judgment applied only to three of the
presently named Moving Defendants. 
 
A.        Summary
of Facts in Underlying Action 
 
The Complaint in Action 1 was
filed on September 18, 2018, and named as defendants Evolv, Kenneth, KBLED,
All-In, INESA and Feilo. The Complaint alleged causes of action for wrongful
termination, breach of written contract, retaliation in violation of Labor Code
§ 1102.5 and unfair business practices in violation of Business &
Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq. (RJN Ex. 13.) Plaintiff’s wrongful
termination and unfair business practices causes of action were dismissed after
the trial court sustained the defendant’s demurrers. (Ibid.) The fourth
amended complaint alleged causes of action against defendants for breach of
written contract and retaliation in violation of Labor Code § 1102.5. (Ibid.)
 
The Fourth Amended Complaint in
Action 1 alleged that Plaintiff and Evolv entered into a written agreement for
employment on July 1, 2017, and that Evolv breached the agreement on January
22, 2018, when it terminated Plaintiff without cause. Defendants Kenneth, KBLED, and All-In moved for summary judgment
asserting that they were not the joint employer of Plaintiff or alter-egos of
Plaintiff’s employer, Evolv, such that they could not be held liable for breach
of written contract and retaliation against Plaintiff. (RJN Ex. 13.) 
On June 21, 2021, the trial court granted
Defendants Kenneth, KBLED, and All-In’s motion for summary judgment. (Ibid.)
The trial court dismissed Evolv and Felio without prejudice and entered
judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant Inesa and in favor, jointly and severally, of KBLED, All-In,
and Kenneth.  The court ordered Plaintiff
to pay KBLED, All-In, and Kenneth $251,250 in attorney fees and $5,798.07 in
costs. (Ibid.) Plaintiff appealed, and the Court of Appeal for the
Second District (‘the “Second District”) upheld the ruling on April 18, 2023. (Ibid.)
On July 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present action (“Action 2”). 
B.        Step 1:
Moving Defendants Assert Action 2 is an Unlawful Attack on the Judgment in
Action 1 and Moving Defendant’s Petitioning Activity for Successfully Defending
Action 1
“In ruling on a defendant's anti-SLAPP
motion, the trial court engages in a two-step analysis.” (Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88.) First, the court determines “whether the
defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one
arising from protected activity,” which includes defendants’ right of petition,
or free speech, under a constitution, in connection with issues of public
interest. (Ibid; CCP § 425.16(e).
 
In Church of Scientology, the Second
District found
that the anti-SLAPP statute “applies to any direct attack on the judgment in the
prior action, which resulted from [the party’s] petition activity.” (Church of Scientology v. Wollersheim (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 628, 648 (Church of Scientology) [italics original] disapproved on other grounds by Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53.) In ruling
on an anti-SLAPP motion, the Church of Scientology Court noted that “the
trial court may properly
consider the litigation history between the parties. The legislative
rationale in enacting the statute is consistent with such an analysis because
acts which are designed to discourage the bringing of a lawsuit are no more oppressive
than acts which seek to prolong the litigation to a point where it is economically
impracticable to maintain and pursue it to a final conclusion. When one party
to a lawsuit continuously and unsuccessfully uses the litigation process to
bludgeon the opponent into submission, those actions must be closely
scrutinized for constitutional implications.” (Id. at pp.
648-649.) 


Moving Defendants contend that this
present action (Action 2) is an attack on the judgment in the underlying action
(Action 1) because all claims in Action 2 were fully and finally adjudicated in
Action 1. Therefore, Action 2 arose out of Moving Defendants’ petitioning
activity, which was their successful defense of Action 1. 
 
i.          The Appellate Court’s Findings
Regarding Breach of the Employment Agreement
 
In Action 1, the Second District
noted that Kenneth,
Merino, and Jamie formed All-In to hold stock in Evolv; Kenneth owed 40 percent
of All-In. (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 3.) INESA and All-In entered into a shareholders’
agreement for Evolv. (Ibid.) Kenneth as president of All-In signed the
Joint Ventur Agreement (“JVA”) along with Qi Li, the president of Inesa. (Ibid.) Plaintiff entered
into a written employment agreement with Evolv, in which the “Company” was
defined as to only include “Evolv.” (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 4.) Section 9 of the
employment agreement provided the basis for the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment, including the failure to meet sales projections and gross
negligence or willful misconduct resulting in material harm to Evolv. (Ibid.)
In Action 1, Plaintiff asserted that various defendants breached the written
employment agreement by terminating Plaintiff without cause in violation of
section 9 of the employment agreement. (Ibid.)
 
It is undisputed that the trial court
in Action 1 granted Defendants Kenneth, KBLED, and All-In’s motion for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s remaining claims for breach of contract and
retaliation. (RJN Ex. 7.) The Second District affirmed the ruling. (RJN Ex.
13.) Regarding Plaintiff’s claims that Kennath, KBLED, and All-In were liable
as joint employers with Evolv or under alter ego were rejected by the Appeal
Court who found that “[n]either position has merit.” (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 11.) 
 
The Second District found that Plaintiff had forfeited the
argument that Evolv, KBLED, and All-In were effectively the same company pursuant
to the definition of “Corporation” found in the JVA because Plaintiff did not
make the argument in the trial court. (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 18.) The Court noted
that “[e]ven were we to consider the merits of this argument for the first time
on appeal, [Plaintiff] fails to explain why a defined term plucked from EVOLV’s
shareholders’ agreement applies in the context of his employment-related claims
or why the definition of ‘Company’ in [Plaintiff]’s employment contract as
simply ‘EVOLV Integrated Technologies Group Inc.’ does not control.” (Id.
at pp. 18-19, fn. 6.) The Second District further noted “[e]vidence of alter ego
liability, even if it existed, is not evidence of joint employer status.” (Id.
at p. 16.) For these reasons, the Second District affirmed the trial court’s order
granting summary judgment in favor of Defendants Kenneth, KBLED, and All-In. 
 
Moving Defendants contend that the
entire FAC is based on the same alleged breach of the Employment Agreement by
identical parties in Action 1, but that it now adds Jamie and Merino as
Defendants premised on the same theories of liability, alter ego and join
employer liability, that were rejected by the Appeal Court in the underlying
action. (RJN Ex. 1, 13.) 
 
Plaintiff does not deny that the first
cause of action in the FAC (Action 2) is based on the same operative facts as
the breach of contract claim alleged in Action 1. The Plaintiff also asserts
that because Jamie and Merion were not subject to the judgment in Action 1,
they lack standing to bring an Anti-SLAPP motion. The latter argument lacks
merit because standing to bring an Anti-SLAPP motion does not require that
Jamie and Merion have been a party in the underlying action. 
 

ii.         Action 2 is an Attack on the Judgment
in Action 1 due to Claim Preclusion Because the Newly Added Defendants were in
Privity with the Prior Defendants 
 
“Claim preclusion ‘prevents relitigation of the same cause
of action in a second suit between the same parties or parties in privity with
them.’ [Citation.] Claim preclusion arises if a second suit involves: (1) the
same cause of action (2) between the same parties (3) after a final judgment on
the merits in the first suit. [Citations.] If claim preclusion is established,
it operates to bar relitigation of the claim altogether.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824
(DKN Holdings) [italics original],) 
 
The
court is unpersuaded that the fact Plaintiff seeks the same relief in Action 2
as Action 1, bars Action 2. “Claim preclusion does not bar subsequent suits
against co-obligors if they were not parties to the original litigation.” (DKN Holdings, supra, 61 Cal.4th
at p. 825.) However, Moving Defendants also assert that the first cause of
action for breach of contract is barred against newly named Defendants Jamie
and Merino because they were in privity with KBLED and All-In, and both
entities were found to not be liable for breach of the employment agreement in
Action 1.  
 
“[P]rivity requires the
sharing of ‘an identity or community of interest,’ with ‘adequate
representation’ of that interest in the first suit, and circumstances such that
the nonparty ‘should reasonably have expected to be bound’ by the first suit.
[Citation.]  A nonparty alleged to be in
privity must have an interest so similar to the party's interest that the party
acted as the nonparty's ‘virtual representative’ in the first action. (DKN Holdings, supra, 61
Cal.4th at p. 825.) Here, the FAC alleges that Jamie and Merino are co-owners
and alter egos of KBLED, All-In, and Evolv. (FAC ¶¶ 9, 10, 11, 20.) Therefore,
Jamie and Merino’s liability stems from the fact that they are the owners and
agents of KBLED, Inc., All-In, and Evolv such that their liability “is entirely
derivative from that of a party in an earlier action” and “claim
preclusion bars the second action because” the Jamie and Merino “stand[]in
privity with the earlier [defendants].” (DKN Holdings, at pp. 827-828 see also Lippert v. Bailey
(1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 376, 382.) 


Plaintiff fails to present evidence to
show that Jamie and Merio were not in privity with All-In and KBLED such that
the judgment in Action 1 does not bind Jamie and Merino. “The nature of
derivative liability so closely aligns the separate defendants' interests that
they are treated as identical parties.” (DKN Holdings, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 828.) The court agrees
that because Jamie and Merion are alleged to be the co-owners and alter egos of
KBLED and All-In and the first cause of action in the FAC asserts claims
identical to those asserted against KBLED and All-In, Jamie and Merion are
absolved of liability for breach of contract. “[B]ecause the corporation could
act only through its agents [] if the corporation was absolved of its
derivative liability, the agents were likewise necessarily absolved.” (Richard B. LeVine, Inc. v. Higashi (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 566, 576; see also Sartor v. Superior Court (1982) 136
Cal.App.3d 322 [accord].) 
 
Accordingly, the court agrees that claim
preclusion bars the first cause of action asserted against Jamie and Merion
such that this present action is an attack on the judgment in Action 1. (See Church
of Scientology, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at pp. 468-469.) 
 
iii.       Issue Preclusion Bars Plaintiff’s
Remaining Causes of Action such that the FAC is an Attack on the Judgment in
Action 1
 
“Issue preclusion prohibits the relitigation of issues
argued and decided in a previous case, even if the second suit raises different
causes of action. [Citation.]  Under
issue preclusion, the prior judgment conclusively resolves an issue actually
litigated and determined in the first action. [Citation.]  There is a limit to the reach of issue preclusion,
however. In accordance with due process, it can be asserted only against a
party to the first lawsuit, or one in privity with a party. [Citation.]” (DKN Holdings LLC, supra, 61
Cal.4th at p. 824 [italics original].) “Issue preclusion differs from claim
preclusion in two ways. First, issue preclusion does not bar entire causes of
action. Instead, it prevents relitigation of previously decided issues. Second,
unlike claim preclusion, issue preclusion can be raised by one who was not a
party or privy in the first suit.” (Ibid.)
 
Moving
Defendants further assert that Plaintiff’s second and third causes of action
arise out of the JVA between INESA and KBLED and Plaintiff is not entitled to
enforce the JVA. Lastly, the fourth cause of action is premised on Plaintiff
being induced to work for EVOLV despite it being undercapitalized which was
already an issue raised in Action 1 and rejected by the Second District.

 
Plaintiff
denies the assertion that this present action (Action 2) is an attack on
Judgment in Action 1 because the present action asserts new causes of action
and adds Jamie and Merino as new Defendants. 
 
An anti-SLAPP motion can be brought in
response to “a mixed cause of action,” in which “cause of action that rests on
allegations of multiple acts, some of which constitute protected activity and
some of which do not.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11
Cal.5th 995, 1010 (Bonni) [internal citations and quotations omitted].)
This is because “an anti-SLAPP motion, like a conventional motion to strike,
may be used to attack parts of a count as pleaded.” (Baral v.
Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) 
 
Because we are at the first step of an
anti-SLAPP analysis, the court need only examine what acts the Moving
Defendants assert are protected  and
“[i]t does not matter that other unprotected acts may also have been alleged
within what has been labeled a single cause of action” because at step 1 the
unprotected activities are “disregard at this stage” “the second step is
reached” with respect to the claim that arise from activities protected by the
statute.” (Bonni, at p. 1010.) Accordingly, if issue preclusion applies
to portions of the remaining causes of action in the FAC, the court may
properly conclude that the FAC is an attack on Judgment in Action 1 because it
seeks to relitigate issues already decided in Action 1. 
 
a.         The
Second Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief is an Attack on the Judgment in
Action 1
 
The second cause of action for declaratory relief seeks
a determination that: 
 
1)    
INESA, All-In,
and KBLED controlled Evolv and INESA, Feilo, Evolv, KBLED, and All-In are the
alter egos of Kenneth, Jamie, and Merino. (FAC ¶¶ 90 – 94.) 
 
2)    
Neither KBLED,
All-In, Kenneth, Jamie, and Merino paid the $200,000.00 due and owing to Evolve
upon its dissolution or liquidation as required by the JVA. (FAC ¶ 95.)
Plaintiff requests that Moving Defendants deposit $200,000.00 as required by
the JVA for the benefit of all creditors, including Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 94.) 
 
3)    
Plaintiff also
seeks a declaration that Defendants are jointly and severally liable to
Plaintiff pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement entered on June 23, 2017, which
defined the Corporation, Evolv to include “any entity controlled by or under
common control of the Corporation” and “for any and all liability attributable
to any and all Defendants stemming from this case or case number
30-2018-00992808-CU-BC-CJC.” 
 
The Second District in
Action 1 found that at the hearing for summary judgment, Plaintiff failed to
present evidence that “would support a finding that KBLED or All-In controlled
EVOLV or were sufficiently interconnected to it to warrant disregarding EVOLV’s
corporate form.” (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 17.) The Second District similarly found that Plaintiff failed to evidence of
joint employer liability as to Kenneth, KBLED, and All-In. (RJN Ex. 13 at p.
16.) The Appeal Court also found that “it was conceded that [Kenneth] was not
the alter ego of EVOLV[.]” (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 15.) Therefore, Plaintiff is not
entitled to a determination that All-In, including its owners Jamie and Merino,
Kenneith, and KBLED were the alter egos of Evolv. 
 
The Second District in
Action 1 also agreed with the findings of the trial court that the $200,000.00
that was due, was not due until December 31, 2019 “by which time EVOLV had
already been dissolved.” (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 8.) Therefore, moving Defendants are
not required to deposit the $200,000.00 and Plaintiff is not entitled to a
determination on this issue. 
 
The Second District in
Action 1 also found that Plaintiff failed to show why the definition of
“Corporation” found in Evolv’s shareholder agreement “applies in the context of
his employment-related claims or why the definition of “Company” in
[Plaintiff]’s employment contract as simply ‘EVOLV Integrated Technologies
Group Inc.’ does not control.” (RJN Ex. 13 at pp. 18-19, fn. 6.) More
importantly, the Second District found
that Plaintiff had forfeited this argument. (Id. at p. 18 [“Frank did
not make this argument in the trial court, and it is forfeited”].) Therefore,
Plaintiff is not entitled to a determination that the definition of
“Corporation” found in Evolv’s shoulder agreement makes Defendants jointly and
severally liable to Plaintiff. 
 
Therefore, the court agrees that the second cause of
action in the FAC is an attack on the Judgment in Action 1. 
 
b.         The
Third Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief is an Attack on the Judgment in
Action 1
 
In summary, the third cause of action seeks a finding
that KBLED, All-In, Kenneth, Jamie, and Merino are one and the same and that
they should pay the $200,000.00 due and owing to Evolv for the benefit of
creditors such as Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶100- 108.) “Plaintiff seeks this court
require Defendants KENNETH, JAIME, MERINO, KBLED, and ALL-IN shall deposit
$200,000.00 as required by the Joint Venture Agreement with this court for the
benefit of any and all Creditors, including but not limited to Plaintiff.” (FAC
¶ 109.) 
 
As stated above, the Second District did not disagree with the findings that the $200,000.00
were not due until December 31, 2019, by which time Evolv had already
dissolved. (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 8.) Therefore, Plaintiff is not entitled to the
finding that Moving Defendants are required to deposit $200,000.00 with the
court for the benefit of creditors, as Action 1 already determined that the
money was not due. 
 
Therefore, the court agrees that the third cause of
action in the FAC is an attack on the Judgment in Action 1. 
 
 
c.         Fourth
Cause of Action for Fraud is an Attack on Judgment 1
 
The fourth cause of action alleges that Kenneth on
behalf of all Defendants made material representation regarding the terms and
conditions of Plaintiff’s employment that were false causing Plaintiff harm,
and all Defendants are liable because they are alter egos of each other. (FAC
¶¶ 111-125.) 
 
Although the remaining claims in Action 1 involved
breach of Plaintiff’s employment contract and a retaliation claim, Action 1 did
find on the issue that KBLED, All-In, and Kenneth, including Jamie and Merino
who were in privity with said Defendants, were not alter egos of Evolv or joint
employers of Plaintiff. Therefore, the court agrees that the fourth cause of
action is an attack on the Judgment in Action 1. 
 
The Moving Defendants have met their burden of showing
that this action arose from a protected activity, that being their successful
defense of the lawsuit in Action 1. Next, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
show that he has a probability of prevailing on the merits. 
 
C.        Step
2: Plaintiff’s Reasonable Probability
of Success on the Merits
 
“The plaintiff need only
establish that his or her claim has ‘minimal merit’ [citation] to avoid being
stricken as a SLAPP.” (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) “The
trial court merely determines whether a prima facie showing has been made that
would warrant the claim going forward.” (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title
Co.¿(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.) “The court considers the pleadings
and evidence submitted by both sides, but does not weigh credibility or compare
the weight of the evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to accept as
true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff¿[citation] and evaluate the
defendant's evidence only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the
plaintiff as a matter of law.¿[Citation.] The trial court merely determines
whether a prima facie showing has been made that would warrant the claim going
forward.”¿(Id. at p. 212.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff submitted
no evidence in support of step 2 and relies only on his pleadings to show that
his claims can succeed on the merits. As outlined above, Plaintiff cannot
prevail on the merits as to the first, second, and third causes of action
because they are barred by claim and issue preclusion. 
 
Plaintiff also fails to
show that he can prevail on the fourth cause of action for fraud because the
claim is inadequately pled. “In California, fraud must be pled specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Specificity “necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Id.
at p. 631.) 
 
The fourth cause of
action alleges that Kenneth, on behalf of Defendants, made false
representations “regarding the terms and conditions of his employment with
EVOLV including but not limited to the term of his employment and the amount of
compensation.” (FAC ¶ 111.) “The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar, supra,
12 Cal.4th at p. 638.) 
 
Plaintiff fails to state
specific facts as to how Kenneth misrepresented the term of Plaintiff’s
employment and how Plaintiff was misled about the amount of compensation.
Moreover, Action 1 already determined that Kenneth did not breach the
employment contract, which was “an integrated contract” and governed
Plaintiff’s employment relationship with Evolv. (RJN Ex. 13 at p. 11.)
Moreover, Action 1 already determined that KBLED, All-In, and Kenneth,
including the parties in privity with these Defendants, did not breach the
employment agreement by terminating Plaintiff. (RJN Ex. 13.) Therefore, due to
issue preclusion, Plaintiff cannot allege fraud based on the fact that he was
terminated without cause before the term of his employment contract as Action 1
determined that Plaintiff failed to show that this provision was violated.
Action 1 also established that Evolv was not undercapitalized and that the
$200,000.00 was not due because Evolv had dissolved before that balance was
due. (RJN Ex. 13 pp. 9-10.) Plaintiff also fails to plead “scienter,” meaning
that Kenneth knew that the representations about Plaintiff’s term of employment
and compensation were false when he made the representations, and that Kenneth
did so with the intent to defraud Plaintiff. 
 
Second, the court agrees
that Plaintiff waived any claim regarding the representations made to him about
his employment because the employment agreement is fully integrated.  According to section 12 of the employment
agreement, Plaintiff agreed that the employment agreement governs the parties'
entire relationship, including any representations made to him: 
 
Entire Agreement. The parties hereto declare, warrant, and represent
that no promise, statement, representation, inducement, or other agreement not
expressly set forth herein, is relied upon or made the basis for entering
into this Agreement or agreeing to any of the terms hereof that this Agreement,
the IP Agreement, the Arbitration Agreement, the Non-Harassment Agreement, and
applicable terms of Company's Employee Handbook embody and set forth the
entire agreements and understandings between them relating to the subject
matters hereof and thereof and that this Agreement and employee
benefit plans referenced herein shall merge and supersede all prior
discussions, agreements, understandings, representations, conditions,
warranties, covenants, and all other communications between them on or relating
to the subject matters hereof and thereof.
 
(FAC Ex. A at p. 7, §
12.) 
 
Therefore, the court
agrees that the fourth cause of action is insufficiently pled and legally
deficient such that Plaintiff cannot show “ ‘that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ” (Soukup, supra, 39
Cal.4th at p. 241 citing Matson v. Dvorak
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.) Therefore, Plaintiff fails to show that he can
succeed on the merits of his claim. 
 
Based on the above, Moving Defendant’s
special motion to strike is granted. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees is denied. Moving Defendants’ request for attorney’s fees as
the prevailing party shall be decided by separate motion. 
 
D.        Plaintiff
Cannot Amend the FAC and this Action Must be Dismissed 
 
“Although the anti-SLAPP statute does not
specifically state it, a plaintiff whose complaint is stricken by a successful
anti-SLAPP motion cannot try again with an amended complaint. There is no such
thing as granting an anti-SLAPP motion with leave to amend.” (Dickinson v.
Cosby (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655, 676–677.) A judgment of dismissal follows
a complaint without leave to amend and effectively ends a plaintiff’s ability
to proceed further in their case. (See Sisemore v. Master Financial, Inc.
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1386, 1396; Berri v. Superior Court (1955) 43
Cal.2d 856, 860.)
 
After Moving Defendants filed their SLAPP
motion, Plaintiff lost the right to amend the pleadings to avoid the SLAPP
motion. (Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1055.) Leave to amend the
pleadings has only been granted where the Plaintiff has made a showing of being
able to prevail on the merits. (See Nguyen-Lam v. Cao
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 858, 865-866 [found plaintiff could prevail on slander
claim but the plaintiff failed to allege actual malice so the anti-SLAPP motion
was denied and the plaintiff was given leave to amend the complaint to allege
actual malice]; Haight Ashbury Free Clinics, Inc. v. Happening
House Ventures (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1561 [agreeing with the
proposition that amendment should be permitted to reinstate a cause of action
based solely on nonprotected activity and the plaintiff establishes a minimal
degree of merit to the claim.].) 
 
Since Plaintiff failed to establish that
his claims of a minimal degree of merit, the Anti-SLAPP motion is granted and
leave to amend denied. 
 
DEMURRER TO FAC WITH MOTION
TO STRIKE 
 
Given that Moving Defendants’
special motion to strike is granted, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC and
motion to strike are denied as moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
moving
Defendants’ special motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff’s request
for attorney’s fees is denied. Moving Defendants’ request for attorney’s fees
as the prevailing party shall be decided by separate motion.
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to FAC
and motion to strike are moot. 
Moving Defendants to give notice. 