  Case Number:  23STCV23854    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  57 The Court rules as follows on the Defendants' demurrer to the Plaintiff's Second Amended Complaint ("SAC").The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the first cause of action in the SAC against Defendant Naum Neil Shekhter ("Naum") for breach of contract on the ground that the claim is barred by the applicable statute of limitations.  The contract in question was an oral one, which is alleged to have been made over 15 years ago   The claim for breach of contract is long since time-barred.  The allegation that Naum paid partial payments on the contract in recent years does not revive the claim.  The Court is sustaining the demurrer as to the breach of contract claim without leave to amend because at this stage, after multiple iterations of Plaintiff's complaint, it does not appear that the Plaintiff can amend the complaint further to bring the claim within the statute of limitations.The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the second cause of action against Naum for common counts because that claim stands for falls with the breach of contract claim.The demurrer is overruled as to the third cause of action against all Defendants for fraudulent transfer.   This claim is not time-barred from the face of the SAC.  Defendants' statute of limitations argument as to this claim depends on matters outside of the four corners of the SAC.   Additionally, the Court disagrees with the Defendants' contention that the SAC contains insufficient allegations to support the fraudulent transfer claim.  It does.The demurrer is overruled as to the fourth cause of action for fraud as it relates to Naum.  In the Court's view, the fraud claim is not time-barred on the face of the SAC, and the allegations in the SAC satisfy the heightened pleading standard for fraud as to Naum.  The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the fraud claim as it relates to all of the other Defendants.  The SAC contains no allegations to support a fraud claim against any of them.