  Case Number:  24TRCV00134    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SUN
  D. LEE, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00134




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CHUN
  KIL CHONG, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
15, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Chil Kil Chong,
ind. and as trustee, and Richard Chong
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs Sun D. Lee and Kwan
Lee
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
            The Court considered the moving papers
and untimely-filed opposition.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of
action in the FAC.
BACKGROUND
On January 17, 2024, plaintiffs Sun
D. Lee and Kwan Lee (self-represented) filed a complaint against Chun Kil
Chong, Chun Kil Chong, trustee of Chong Kil Chong Trust, Min Ju Bark, Richard
Chong, and Jon Kim for (1) fraudulent misrepresentation and concealment, (2)
breach of oral contract, (3) constructive trust, (4) quasi contract, (5) quiet
and clear title, (6) financial elder abuse, and (7) IIED. 
            On February 6, 2024, John Kim
(self-represented) filed a general denial.
            On February 20, 2024, Chun Kil Chong
(self-represented) filed an answer. 
On March 29, 2024, defaults were
entered against Chung Kil Chong, trustee of Chun Kil Chong Trust, Min Ju Bark,
and Richard Chong.  A dismissal was
entered as to John Kim.
On June 13, 2024, Chun Kil Chong
filed a substitution of attorney.
On September 13, 2024, plaintiffs filed
a FAC against Chun Kill Chong, individually and as trustee of the Chun Kil
Chong Trust, and Richard Chong for
(1) fraudulent misrepresentation
and concealment,
(2) constructive trust,
(3) breach of contract, and
(4) financial elder abuse.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants demur to the first
through fourth causes of action in the FAC on the ground that they fail to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
This lawsuit involved real property
claimed by Plaintiffs to be their home of 26 years.  They claim that they have resided at it for
the entire period, but that financial problems in about 2009 and 2010 led them
to transfer the property to Plaintiff  Sun Lee’s brother, Defendant Chun Kill Chong
in a short sale.  They claim that this
was subject to an oral agreement that defendant would transfer the real
property back to them.  Defendants direct
the Court to the Plaintiffs’ bankruptcy filed a few months AFTER the transfer
of the real property, where the Plaintiffs claimed no interest in real property
and no executory contracts.
The FAC alleges that plaintiffs had
been residing in their home at 6 Merit Park Drive, Gardena.  FAC, ¶1. 
Defendants deliberately and fraudulently took title to plaintiffs’
house, which they purchased in 1998 for $129,000.  Id., ¶7. 
Plaintiffs had enjoyed their life in their house before they encountered
serious medical problems with Kwan Lee who suffered from chronic cardiac
problems.  Plaintiffs wanted to protect
their house from the medical bills.  Id.,
¶10.  At about the same time, plaintiffs
were delinquent on their $272,000 note recorded on February 16, 2006.  Lender WMC Mortgage had filed a notice of
default and a notice of sale.  The
secured note was an adjustable rate note that provided for a significant
increase in the interest rate that plaintiffs could not afford to make.
Plaintiff Sun Lee confided in her
brother, Chun Kil Chong, about their financial difficulties.  Defendant Chong offered to help and brought a
real estate specialist to the house to consult on what could be done.  It was determined that defendant Chong could
save the property from foreclosure and qualify for a new loan to allow
plaintiffs to continue living there if plaintiff would pay all of the costs of
the new purchase loan.  It was understood
and agreed that legal title to the property could be returned to plaintiffs in
the future so they would not lose any equity in the property.  Id., ¶11.
The FAC also alleges that the
foreclosing lender agreed to a lesser amount to pay off its lien of record by
means of a sale to a third party, thus allowing a purchase price of $155,000.  Defendant obtained a loan in his name for
$124,000.  Plaintiffs paid the down
payment, closing, costs, and any fees of $36,000 paid outside of escrow to
close the “short sale.”  The deed was
recorded on February 19, 2010.
Plaintiffs remained in possession
of their residence and paid the new monthly loan payment to defendant Chong’s
bank account and the property taxes. 
Id., ¶12.  The parties had
understood from the real estate agent that there should be a waiting period of
about three years after a short sale before the sellers should consider getting
back on title.  Sometime in 2013,
plaintiffs asked defendant how they could get their property back.  Defendant explained that he could not
transfer the property because he was still obligated on the purchase loan, or a
new loan obtained by plaintiffs would be needed and legal fees would be
incurred.  Plaintiffs accepted this
explanation and continued to live on the premises and made the agreed monthly
payments to defendant for the next ten years. 
Id., ¶13.
The FAC further alleges that on
September 13, 2023, defendant caused to be served on plaintiffs a sixty-day
notice to quit.  Prior to this notice,
plaintiffs had never believed or understood that defendant had considered them
tenants.  On November 21, 2023,
defendant, as trustee, filed an unlawful detainer alleging that a 2010 written
lease agreement existed between the parties. 
No written lease was attached because none existed.  On March 7, 2024, the unlawful detainer was
voluntarily dismissed.  Id., ¶15.  Plaintiffs discovered that defendant refinanced
the property on November 25, 2023 by borrowing a new loan for $155,000 and
paying off the balance of the $124,000 loan and had transferred the property to
a trust on February 24, 2021.  Id., ¶¶17-18.
The FAC further alleges that after
filing this action in January 2024, plaintiffs stopped making the monthly
payment to defendant on the advice of their paralegal advisor.  Defendants served a three-day notice to quit
and filed a second unlawful detainer action in March 2024.  Plaintiffs did not defend against the second
eviction because the fraud case was pending. 
This error in legal judgment resulted in a default judgment and a
sheriff’s lockout in June 2024.  Id., ¶19.
First cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation and concealment
“’The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of fact.’”  Hambridge
v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 124,
162 (citation omitted).  “One who
willfully deceives another with intent to induce him to alter his position to
his injury or risk, is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.”  Civil Code §1709.
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
The FAC alleges that in 2009 or
2010, when defendant Chong agreed to help plaintiffs save their residence from
foreclosure, he fraudulently misrepresented his intentions by stating and
agreeing that he would use his credit to obtain a new purchase money loan for
their residence, that he would buy their property via a “short sale” and be on
legal title but that plaintiffs would remain living at the property and retain
all the equity in the property as long as they paid all the costs of the short
sale transaction, including the down payment, monthly loan payment, and HOA
payments, and any other real property expenses. 
Defendant further misrepresented by statements and agreements that in
the future plaintiffs would be able to recover title to their property and
their equity in the property.  FAC, ¶21.  These representations were false.  The true facts are that defendant saw an
opportunity to take advantage of his sister’s financial distress to buy
plaintiffs’ property cheaply and gain the existing and future equity buildup at
a future sale.  He did not disclose the
intent to plaintiffs, but his misrepresentations caused plaintiffs to
justifiably believe and trust their family member that he would provide the
help they needed using his credit without any out-of-pocket expense on his
behalf.  Id., ¶22.
About three years after the short
sale closed, defendant found himself in need of money and decided that he could
refinance plaintiffs’ residence and pull out some equity money because he was
the legal owner.  He refinanced and
realized $20,000 to $30,000 with plaintiffs paying the increased monthly
payment on the higher loan amount.  He
then concealed from plaintiffs that he refinanced and pulled out money for
himself and that he considered himself the full legal and beneficial owner of
the property, considered plaintiffs his tenants, and could evict them and sell
the property whenever he wanted.  When
plaintiffs inquired about securing legal title for themselves about three years
after the short sale, defendant made excuses saying that it would be too
expensive or that title could not be transferred while he was still obligated
on a loan.  Id., ¶23.
Not disclosed in the Complaint is
the Plaintiffs’ bankruptcy.  Defendants
ask the Court to take judicial notice of the July 14, 2010 Voluntary Petition
for Bankruptcy filed by Plaintiffs, Case No. 2:10-bk-38994-RN as well as the
Discharge of Debtor also filed July 14, 2010. 
(Defendants erroneously state in their Request for Judicial Notice that
the bankruptcy documents are form 2020.) 
Defendants argue that plaintiffs are judicially estopped from pursuing
this cause of action because five months (July 14, 2010) after they transferred
the property, they filed for bankruptcy and stated in their petition that they
had no “legal, equitable, or future interest” in any real property nor any
executory contacts.  See Request for
Judicial Notice, Exh. 1.  At the time of
the transfer as alleged, they were transferring the property to avoid medical
bills, and they were delinquent on their note and the lender had recorded a
default and sale.  They listed the
property as sold due to a “short sale” and received a discharge.  Defendants contend that plaintiffs’
allegations that they have equity in the property and an agreement with
defendant are wholly inconsistent with their bankruptcy petition, wherein they stated
that they had moved from the property in February 2010 and listed a different
resident address.
Defendants further argue that the
allegations are insufficient as there are no allegations that when the property
was transferred to defendant, he did not intend to perform.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the fraudulent concealment was when defendant refinanced in 2013 and did
not tell plaintiffs but had them pay the new monthly mortgage on the increased
refinance loan.  Plaintiffs further argue
that judicial estoppel does not apply because the “incorrect scheduling of
assets” was not “intentional, but the result of mistake, inadvertence,
ignorance of legal procedures or lack of adequate legal advice.”  Plaintiffs assert that the “nature and
characterization of the trust agreement between the parties was not easily
understood, maybe at best a future expectation, if honored by the defendant,
and at worst, a constructive trust claim for violation of the arrangement
between the parties.”  Plaintiffs request
leave to address the judicial estoppel exception of ignorance, fraud, or
mistake.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  Plaintiffs
have not alleged any facts that at the time the property was transferred and
purported promises made (2010), defendant concealed or suppressed a material
fact, that he would evict them thirteen years later, or intended to defraud
them by refinancing in 2013 and evicting them in 2023 or his intent not to
perform the alleged promises when they were made.  “’It is insufficient to show an unkept but
honest promise, or mere subsequent failure of performance.”  Reeder v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC
(2020) 52 Cal. App. 5th 795, 804 (citation omitted).  As to the allegation that defendant
refinanced and did not tell plaintiffs, plaintiffs allege that they paid an
increased monthly amount, which purportedly would have given them notice that
something occurred to increase their payments. 
Plaintiffs were at least on inquiry notice since they knew that the
payments requested of them increased and had no information justifying it.
Further, based on plaintiffs’ bankruptcy
petition, of which the Court takes judicial notice, plaintiffs declared that
there they had no interest in any real property and that there were no
executory contract in existence at the time that the transfer of title was made
in 2010.  Plaintiffs appear to be
judicially estopped.  ).  Plaintiffs obtained the benefit of their bankruptcy
“disclosures” and were not obligated to address their claimed interest in the
real property.  Has it been disclosed as
required they may well have seen their interest addressed by the Bankruptcy
Court to their disadvantage.  Now they
want to “recover” that interest in the real property for their benefit.  “The doctrine applies when ‘(1) the same party
has taken two positions; (2) the positions were taken in judicial or
quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the party was successful in
asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or
accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5)
the first position was not taken as a result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake.’”  Miyahara v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2024) 99 Cal. App. 5th 687, 697 (citations omitted.  These elements have been met.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Second cause of action for constructive
trust
“The principal circumstances where
constructive trusts are imposed are set forth in Civil Code sections 2223 and
2224.  Section 2223 provides that ‘[o]ne
who wrongfully detains a thing is an involuntary trustee thereof, for the
benefit of the owner.’  Section 2224
states that ‘[o]ne who gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue
influence, the violation of a trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he or
she has some other and better right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the
thing gained, for the benefit of the person who would otherwise have had it.’  Under these statutes and the case law applying
them, a constructive trust may only be imposed where the following three
conditions are satisfied:  (1) the
existence of a res (property or some interest in property); (2) the right of a
complaining party to that res; and (3) some wrongful acquisition or detention
of the res by another party who is not entitled to it.”  Communist Party v. 522 Valencia, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal. App. 4th 980, 990 (citations omitted).
“A constructive trust cannot exist
unless there is evidence that property has been wrongfully acquired or detained
by a person not entitled to its possession.” 
Id. at 991.  “Before a
court can impose a constructive trust on the basis of a defendant's wrongful
acquisition or retention of property under Civil Code section 2223 or 2224,
there must be some other party rightfully entitled to that property.”  Id.
The FAC alleges that the parties
agreed to the short sale of plaintiffs’ residence that was in foreclosure in
order to save the property for plaintiffs. 
Defendant agreed to use his credit worthiness to obtain a loan with
plaintiffs paying all costs of sale, the down payment, monthly loan, and HOA
payments and taxes.  It was understood
and agreed that plaintiffs would still own all the equity and be allowed to
remain living at the property as they had since 1998.  FAC, ¶27. 
Plaintiffs relied on defendant’s promises to help them avoid foreclosure
and remain living at the premises.  They
paid the down payment to defendant and made all the monthly expenses by paying
defendant as required.  Id., ¶28.  On September 13, 2023, defendant served
notice of lease termination demanding that plaintiffs move out and give up
possession.  This was the first conduct
by defendant to assert that he had complete legal and equitable ownership of
plaintiffs’ residence, which was a total contradiction of the agreement between
them.  Id., ¶30.  At the time of the short sale when the
promises were made, plaintiffs were ignorant of defendant’s secret intention
not to perform their agreement and were justified in relying on plaintiff Sun
Lee’s brother’s offer to help save the home. 
Plaintiffs could not, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, have
discovered defendant’s secret intention and therefore acted reasonably in
relying on defendant’s promises.  Id., ¶31.  By virtue of this fraudulent acts, defendant
holds the subject property as a constructive trustee for plaintiffs’
benefit.  Id., ¶32.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  It is not
clear what the legal basis is for claiming that Plaintiffs are entitled to the
real property.  See rulings under the
first and third causes of action.  There
is no allegation that defendant wrongfully acquired the real property as
plaintiffs freely transferred the legal title to defendant and then filed for
bankruptcy and received a discharge. 
There is also no allegation that defendant has wrongfully detained the
real property as he was still liable on the loan.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.   
 
Third cause of action for breach of
contract
To state
a cause of action for breach of contract, plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.”  Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.
The FAC
alleges that the parties had an oral agreement. 
The essential terms of the agreement were that plaintiffs and defendant
Chong agreed to the short sale of plaintiffs’ residence that was in foreclosure
in order to save the property for plaintiffs. 
Defendant agreed to use his credit worthiness to obtain a loan with
plaintiffs paying all the costs.  It was
understood and agreed that plaintiffs would still own all the equity and be
allowed to remain living at the property. 
FAC, ¶34.  On
September 13, 2023, defendant breached the agreement by serving a 60-day notice
to quit and deliver up possession followed by an unlawful detainer action
against plaintiffs in November 2023. 
Defendant was eventually able to evict plaintiffs and have them removed
and locked out of their residence.  Id., ¶35. 
Plaintiffs had performed all obligations to defendant up to and
including the November 2023 eviction litigation.  Id., ¶36.
The Court
rules as follows:  The FAC is based on a
purported oral agreement between plaintiffs and defendant that defendant would
reconvey plaintiffs their interest in the property and that plaintiffs would
retain the equity and remain in possession. 
Although not raised by defendants, under Civil Code §1624, the statute
of frauds states, “(a) The following contracts are invalid, unless they, or
some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to
be charged or by the party's agent:  (1)
An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within a year from the
making thereof. . . . (3) An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than
one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest therein; such an
agreement, if made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is invalid,
unless the authority of the agent is in writing, subscribed by the party sought
to be charged.”  Plaintiffs do not allege
that the purported agreement is evidenced by a written instrument signed by
defendant.  Plaintiffs allege that they understood from the real estate
agent that there should be a waiting period of about three years after a short
sale before the sellers should consider getting back on title.  Thus, the agreement to reconvey was not to be
performed within a year of the transfer to defendant.  In
their opposition, plaintiffs even acknowledge that there was no date, except
maybe after the thirty-year loan was paid off. 
Thus, the purported agreement appears to violate the statute of frauds.
Further,
the essential terms of the contract are ambiguous as to when a re-conveyance
was to occur.  Plaintiffs even
acknowledge in their opposition that “defendant represented to the plaintiffs
that they would or could eventually get their residence of twelve years back at
some later time possibly as early as three years . . . . There was no further
detail on how this might happen either as a purchase with a new loan or
assuming an existing loan or just a simple deed conveyance.”  As to remaining in possession and retaining
equity, the terms are too uncertain and indefinite to be enforced.
Further,
as stated above, plaintiffs appear to be judicially estopped from asserting a
cause of action for breach of oral contract because they attested that there
were no executory contracts in their bankruptcy filing after they had
transferred the title.  They now desire
to obtain the benefit of the alleged oral contract that they failed to disclose
when obligated to do so in their bankruptcy.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fourth cause of action for financial
elder abuse
Financial
elder abuse occurs when a person takes the property of an elder for a wrongful
use or with intent to defraud or by undue influence.  See Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.30(a).  A person is deemed to have taken the property
when he or she has deprived an elder of any property right.  See id. §15610.30(c).  Although bad faith or intent to defraud is no
longer required, wrongful use of property must still be alleged.  Stebley v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP
(2011) 202 Cal. App. 4th 522, 527-28.  “A
person . . . shall be deemed to have taken . . . property for a wrongful use if
. . . the person . . . takes . . . the property and the person . . . knew or
should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder . . .
.”  Id. §15610.30(b).
The FAC
alleges that on September 2023, plaintiffs were elder adults within the meaning
of the Welfare and Inst. Code.  FAC, ¶39.  Defendant Chong and his son defendant Richard
Chong, by their actions and conduct in evicting plaintiffs from their residence
in breach of their agreement, took wrongful advantage of plaintiffs.  Id., ¶40. 
As a direct result of the actions and conduct of defendants, plaintiffs
have suffered the loss of possession of their home of twenty-five years,
emotional distress with being locked out by the authorities, and forced to find
shelter.  Id., ¶41.
Defendants
argue that plaintiffs fail to plead with particularity and the allegations are
insufficient.  There is no allegation
that defendant Chong wrongfully took the property.  As for defendant Richard, the only conduct
attributed to him was that he “harassed and intimidated” plaintiffs to move and
told them they should divorce.  See FAC, ¶16.
The
opposition does not address this claim.
The Court
finds that the allegations are insufficient, especially considering that the
underlying causes of action for fraud and breach of oral contract have been
insufficiently pled and appear to be barred. 

The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Statute
of limitations
The statute of limitations is three
years (CCP §338(d)) for the first cause of action based on fraud, two years
(CCP §339) for the third cause of action for breach of an oral contract, and
two years (CCP §335.1) for the fourth cause of action for financial elder
abuse.  The statute of limitations is two
years for the second cause of action for constructive trust as it is based on
the underlying purported oral contract.  ¿“Since
‘A constructive trust is not a substantive device but merely a remedy to
compel a person not justly entitled to property to transfer it to
another who is entitled thereto’, an action seeking to establish a constructive
trust is subject to the limitation period of the underlying substantive right.  If that substantive right is barred by the
statute of limitations . . . the remedy necessarily fails.”  Davies v. Krasna¿(1975) 14 Cal.3d 502,
515-516 (citations omitted).
Defendants argue that each of the
causes of action is barred by the respective statute of limitations because in
2013, plaintiffs sought to recover the property from defendant and defendant
refused to transfer title.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that their causes of action do not accrue until plaintiffs discovered
defendant’s assertion of ownership and breach of their agreement when they were
served with a sixty-day notice to quit on September 13, 2023, followed by an
unlawful detainer action.
The Court finds that each of the
causes of action are barred by the respective statute of limitations.  The FAC alleges that the purported oral
contract was formed in 2010.  When
plaintiffs requested—the complaint alleges that plaintiffs “demanded title as
promised” and the FAC alleges that plaintiffs “inquired about the possibility
of recovering title”—defendant transfer the property in 2013, he refused.  (The complaint alleges that defendant
“den[ied] a change of title” and the FAC alleges that defendant “explained that
he could not transfer the [property] back to them.”)  The Court reasonably interprets these
allegations as establishing discovery of the breach of the oral agreement
(which, as stated above, appears to be barred by the statute of frauds).  Thus, the causes of action at issue accrued in
2013, and expired at the latest 2016.
The Court can not tell from the vague
allegations whether or not Plaintiffs may be capable of alleging facts which
will show that the statute of limitations had not run as to all the
claims.  Since leave to amend is being
granted, the Court shall have to evaluate this issue should it be again raised by
an amended complaint.
 
ORDER
The
demurrer to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in the FAC
are SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.