 Case Number:  23VECV05677    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV05677 ADRINE VAN
DIERMEN vs FORD 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Ford Motor Company and Harper
Motors’ Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
fifth cause of action and OVERRULED as to the sixth cause of action.  
Defendant Ford Motor Company is
ORDERED to file an Answer within 20 days. 
Defendant Harper Motors is DISMISSED with prejudice.  Defendant to provide the court with a proposed
Judgment of Dismissal.
Introduction 
Defendants Ford Motor Company
(FMC) and Harper Motors (Harper) (collectively, Defendants) demurred to
Plaintiff Adrine Van Diermen’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  Defendants placed into issue the sixth cause
of action (COA) for “fraudulent inducement – concealment” against FMC, and the
fifth COA for negligent repair against Harper. 
The fifth COA is the only COA alleged against Harper.  
 Discussion 
FMC argued that the fraudulent
inducement – concealment COA is barred by the Economic Loss Rule (ELR).  Fraudulent inducement is an exception to the
ELR when affirmative misrepresentation/fraud and deceit is pled.  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 989-993 (Robinson).) 
The Robinson Court expressly limited its opinion and solely focused “on
the fraud and misrepresentation claim based on Dana's provision of the false
certificates of conformance.”  (Id. at p.
990.)  The Robinson Court only stated
that it had no “need” to review the fraud concealment claim alleging that Dana
Corp. failed “to provide the serial numbers of affected clutches until five
months after the clutches failed.”  (Ibid.)  The Robinson Court did not expressly opine
that the only exception to the ELR is for fraudulent inducement – affirmative
fraud.  The Robinson Court also did not
expressly opine that  fraudulent
inducement – concealment is not an exception to the ELR.  The Robinson Court was merely silent on the
fraudulent inducement – concealment claim. 
Silence by the Court is merely that – silence.  However, federal cases supported both
Plaintiff and FMC’s contention as to whether fraudulent inducement –
concealment is an exception.  FMC
provided citation to federal cases to show that fraudulent inducement –
concealment is barred by the ELR. 
Plaintiff provided citation to federal cases to show that fraudulent
inducement – concealment is an exception to the ELR.  Because there are federal cases that land on both
sides of the issue, it is abundantly clear that the issue is not settled at the
federal level.  As it stands, FMC’s
contention is not fully persuasive.
Plaintiff cited to Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (Dhital) to argue their
position that fraudulent inducement – concealment is an exception to the
ELR.  However, the opinion is no longer
binding and precedential because the California Supreme Court granted review of
the opinion and can only be cited for persuasive value.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115.)  Even without reviewing the Dhital opinion,
this Court read the Robinson opinion and found it provides sufficient grounds
to hold that fraudulent inducement – concealment would be an exception to the
ELR.  The Robinson Court based its
review, partially, on the California public policy to maintain a fraud-free
business climate which would act to aid, rather than discourage, commerce.  (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp.
991-992.)  The Robinson Court upheld the
view that contracts not be used as a license to cheat and defraud others.  (Ibid.) 
The Robinson Court also provided that contracting parties cannot and
should not be expected to anticipate fraud and dishonesty in their
transactions.  (Id. at p. 993.)  The reasoning of the Court in finding an
exception to the ELR based upon fraudulent inducement – affirmative fraud can
equally be applied to an exception to the ELR based upon fraudulent inducement
– concealment.  Whether fraudulent
inducement is based upon affirmative fraud or concealment would not appear to
make a difference when considering the Robinson Court’s reasoning for creating
the exception to the ELR.  As such, the
Court does not find that the ELR prohibits the fraudulent inducement –
concealment COA.
The Court turns to whether
fraudulent inducement by concealment is sufficiently alleged with supportive
fact allegations.  Pleading fraudulent
inducement by concealment requires: (1) concealment or suppression of a material
fact, (2) a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) intentional
concealment or suppression of the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) that the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have
acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as
a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiffs
sustained damage.  (CACI no. 1901.)  FMC argued that the COA failed to allege the
fact/defect being concealed.  However,
Plaintiff’s allegation that the vehicle’s transmission suffered “hesitation
and/or delayed acceleration, harsh and/or hard shifting, jerking, shuddering,
and/or juddering” is sufficient fact pleading to allege the transmission defect
at issue.  (Compl. pars. 25, 65.)  The Court noted that FMC cited to other pleadings
filed in other cases, however, the facts alleged in other cases is
inconsequential to the review of the pleadings in this case.  The Court did not consider the other
pleadings submitted by FMC.
FMC argued that Plaintiff failed
to plead a duty to disclose.  “There are
‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the Plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the Plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the Plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.’”  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th
326 (LiMandri).)  When no fiduciary
relationship exists, the three other circumstances presupposes some other
relationship between plaintiff and defendant. 
(Id. at p. 336-337.)  The
transactional relationship is described as a 
“relationship between seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee,
doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.
(Civ. Code, § 1572, subd. 3.) All of these relationships are created by
transactions between parties from which a duty to disclose facts material to
the transaction arises under certain circumstances.”  (LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p.
337.)  FMC argued that direct
transactional relationship is insufficiently alleged to support a duty to
disclose.  But nowhere in LiMandri does
it state that the transactional relationship need be “direct.”  Any contractual agreement suffices and
Plaintiff sufficiently pled a contractual relationship based upon the warranty
or a manufacturer/distributor-seller relationship.  (Compl. par. 9.)  With a contractual relationship sufficiently
alleged, Plaintiff was to plead FMC’s exclusive knowledge of the facts not
known to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleged
FMC’s exclusive knowledge of the transmission defect by internal investigations
and issuance of technical service bulletins (TSB).  (Compl. pars. 25-33.)  Plaintiff then alleged that the vehicle would
not have been purchased had he known of the defects.  (Compl. par. 35.)  With these facts, there is sufficient factual
allegations to show FMC’s exclusive knowledge and Plaintiff’s lack of
knowledge.  Plaintiff sufficiently
alleged facts to support the element of duty to disclose.  
Because duty is sufficiently
alleged based upon FMC’s exclusive knowledge, the two remaining circumstances
of active concealment and partial representation need not be considered.
FMC’s arguments are not
persuasive.  FMC’s Demurrer to the sixth
COA for fraudulent inducement – concealment is OVERRULED.
Harper argued that the fifth COA
for negligent repair is barred by the ELR. 
Plaintiff alleged that Harper failed to repair the vehicle.  (Compl. pars. 57-60.)  Plaintiff alleged that the vehicle was taken
to Harper to make warranty repairs. 
(Compl. par. 17.)  Plaintiff did
not plead a separate duty that was apart from the warranty contract.  Further, there are no allegations as to any
physical damage or personal injury.  The
allegations show that the ELR prohibits this tort claim.  Plaintiff cited to North American Chemical
Co. v. Superior Court (1991) 59 Cal.App.4th 764 to argue that ELR does not
apply to service contracts.  Despite
Plaintiff’s contention otherwise, the Court disagrees and finds that the ELR
applies to service contracts.  (Sheen v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 942 [loan modification
servicers]; Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 [contract for the
construction of homes.])  
Plaintiff then argued that the
“components exception” applies and the ELR does not work to bar the COA.  (Jiminez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th
473, 483-484 (Jiminez).)  However, there
are no facts alleged in the Complaint to show that the transmission defect
worked to cause damage to Plaintiff’s other property (i.e., property other than
the defective product itself.).  Further,
Plaintiff’s claims are not for strict products liability, which was the tort at
issue in Jiminez.  The “components
exception” is inapplicable and Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive. 
Plaintiff’s Complaint and
arguments fail to present facts showing that the claim is nothing more than a
claim for negligent breach of contract. 
Plaintiffs do not present facts/argument to show that any of the four exceptions
apply to this case.  The Court applies
the ELR to the fifth COA and finds the COA barred.  
Harper also argued that there are
insufficient facts to support damages. 
Aside from the warranty claims related to the vehicle’s transmission,
Plaintiff failed to plead facts as to how they were damaged by Harper.  On this defect, the demurrer to the fifth COA
is further persuasive.  
Harper’s demurrer to the fifth
COA for negligent repair is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.