  Case Number:  24SMCV01890    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Cagle v. Rublevich, et al.



Case No.:


24SMCV01890 


Complaint Filed:


4-4-24 




Hearing Date:


10-30-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


16


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:
                SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT
CCP § 425.16 (ANTI-SLAPP)
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Eve Rublevich,
Eden Rublevich, Michael Rublevich, Yiffat Rublevich
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Jeffrey Cagle

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants Eve
Rublevich, Eden Rublevich, Michael Rublevich, Yiffat Rublevich Special Motion
to Strike Plaintiff Jeffrey Cagle’s Complaint under CCP §
425.16 (anti-SLAPP) is DENIED. Defendants do not meet their burden to show
that that Defendants’ alleged acts in the complaint arise out of protected
public interest activity.
  
            Defendants
RJN No. 1–4 is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants RJN No. 5 is GRANTED as
to the existence of articles, court documents, and the administrative ruling
documents, but not to the “truth of the hearsay statements in the documents.” (In
re Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314.)
 
REASONING
 
“Litigation of
an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process. First, the moving defendant
bears the burden of establishing that the challenged allegations or claims
arise from protected activity in which the defendant has engaged.  Second,
for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the plaintiff must show
the claim has “at least minimal merit.  If the plaintiff cannot make this
showing, the court will strike the claim.”  (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, [where the  moving party seeks to strike an entire cause
of action alleging multiple factual bases, court does not determine whether 1st
step is met based on a “gravamen” test; but rather must determine whether the
challenged speech or conduct supplies the element of each claim.])  
 
 I.         
Anti-SLAPP First
Step – Defendants Fail to Show Plaintiff’s From Protected Activity Under Code
of Civil Procedure § 425.16. 
 
In the first
step of the anti-SLAPP analysis, “courts are to consider the elements of the
challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and
consequently form the basis for liability.  The defendant’s burden is to
identify what acts each challenged claim rests on and to show how those acts
are protected under a statutorily defined category of protected
activity.”  (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1009.) A
“claim may be struck only if the speech or petitioning activity itself
is the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of liability or a step
leading to some different act for which liability is asserted.” (Citation.)Park,
supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 1060, 217 Cal.Rptr.3d 130, 393 P.3d 905.)
“To determine
whether a claim arises from protected activity, courts must “consider the
elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those
elements and consequently form the basis for liability.” (Citation.) Courts
then must evaluate whether the defendant has shown any of these actions fall
within one or more of the four categories of “ ‘act[s]’ ” protected by the
anti-SLAPP statute. (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th
871, 884.) “In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the
plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of
the defendant's right of petition or free speech. [Citations.] ‘A defendant meets
this burden by demonstrating that the act underlying the plaintiff's cause [of action]
fits one of the categories spelled out in section 425.16, subdivision (e) [((1)-(4)]...’
” (Citations.)” (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th
1240, 1251.)
 
            In
their motion Defendants Eve Rublevich (“Eve”), Eden Rublevich (“Eden”), Michael
Rublevich (“Michael”), Yiffat Rublevich (“Yiffat”)(collectively, “Defendants”)
argue that the foundation for all causes of action in Plaintiff Jeffrey Cagle’s
(“Plaintiff”) Complaint is the “affidavit submitted by Eve to the foreclosure
trustee along with her winning bid.” (Defendants; motion, pp. 10:3–12:12; see
also Compl., ¶¶ 12–17.)  Defendants do
not address what element of each challenged cause of action is met by the
claimed protected activity and, therefore, forms the basis for any liability. The
Court rejects Defendants’ argument that it can meet its burden by simply
stating “the foundation and basis for the first cause of action in the
complaint (and by definition, every remaining cause of action) is the affidavit
submitted by Eve to the foreclosure trustee along with her winning bid.” Again,
the defendant’s burden is to “identify what acts each challenged claim rests on
and to show how those acts are protected under a statutorily defined category
of protected activity.”  (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at
p. 1009.)
 
            Further,
in their motion, Defendant’s argue the submittal of the affidavit of bidder eligibility
to the foreclosure trustee under Civil Code section 4924m subdivision(c) fits
within the requirements of Section 425.16, subdivision (e)(4), namely: “ (4) any
other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.”  (Defendant’s
motion, pp. 10.)  Whether speech or conduct is made in connection with an issue of public
interest is based on a two-part analysis. (FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify
Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 148.) “First, [a court should] ask what ‘public
issue or . . . issue of public interest’ the speech in question implicates—a
question [courts can] answer by looking to the content of the speech.” (Ibid.,
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(4) (ellipsis in original).) )  “FilmOn’s first step is satisfied so
long as the challenged speech or conduct, considered in light of its context,
may reasonably be understood to implicate a public issue, even if it also
implicates a private dispute.  (Geiser
v. Kuhns (2022) 13 Cal.5th 1238, 1253.) FilmOn’s second step
looks to the context of the speech to determine what functional relationship
exists between the speech and the public conversation about some matter of
public interest. (FilmOn.com Inc., supra 7 Cal.5th at
pp. 149–150.) These contextual factors include the identity of the speaker, the
audience, and the “purpose of the speech.” (Id. at p. 145.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that filing an affidavit under CC § 2924m is speech in furtherance
of a public interest and meets the FilmOn public interest two-part test.
(SLAPP, pp. 10:3–12:12.) The Court disagrees. Defendants fail to show any
authority or persuasive argument why the filing of the affidavit pursuant to CC
§ 2924m (d) concerns a matter of public interest within the meaning of Section
425.16 subdivision (e)(4)t.  While the enactment
of CC § 2924 was a matter of public interest, the Court concludes the filing of
an affidavit under that statue is not.  As more recently explained in Li v. Jenkins:

 
“[I]mplicat[ing] a
public issue” is not enough to pass the FilmOn test for conduct protected under
section 425.16(e)(4). That requires an affirmative answer to the second
question, “whether the activity contributed to public discussion of that issue.”
(Geiser, supra, 13 Cal.5th at p. 1246, 297 Cal.Rptr.3d 592, 515 P.3d 623; see
also Rand Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 625, 243
Cal.Rptr.3d 1, 433 P.3d 899 [“we reject the proposition that any connection at
all—however fleeting or tangential—between the challenged conduct and an issue
of public interest would suffice to satisfy the requirements of section 425.16,
subdivision (e)(4)”; “[a]t a sufficiently high level of generalization, any
conduct can appear rationally related to a broader issue of public
importance”].) 
 
Li v. Jenkins (2023) 95 Cal.
App. 5th 493, 500–01. 
 
Here, Defendants did not, and
cannot, show the Defendant’s “affidavit submitted by Eve to the foreclosure
trustee along with her winning bid” in any way contributed to a public discussion
regarding any “public issue” no matter how broadly Defendant’s define the issue.

 
            Moreover,
courts have specifically found filings in connection with nonjudicial foreclosure
proceedings concern a commercial transaction and are not protected under the
anti-SLAPP statute. (See Garretson v. Post (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1508,
1512 [“the trial court correctly found that the nonjudicial foreclosure
proceedings, including the notice of foreclosure, were not constitutionally
protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute.”] The Complaint here includes
the filing of an affidavit in connection with a nonjudicial foreclosure sale, a
matter concerning a commercial transaction, and not a matter of public
interest, thus not speech protected under Section 425.16.
 
            At
the first hearing on the motion, the Court observed the sole basis of Defendant’s
motion appeared to be under the “catch all” subdivision (b)(1).  Defendants counsel suggested their motion was
made under “425.16 “subdivision (b)(1)” independently from subdivision (e)(4)
but did not identify what other subdivision was raised in the motion.  The Court noted protected speech or conduct under
subdivision (b)(1) is defined by subdivision (e)(1) through (e)(4). In
that regard, the Court agreed to continue the hearing to permit the parties to simultaneously
submit supplemental briefs addressing how defendant’s submittal of the
affidavit to the foreclosure trustee was done “in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest” under subdivision (e)(4). 
 
            In
their supplemental brief, however, Defendants now assert a new argument that the
submittal of the affidavit mandated by Civil Code 2924m fits within Section 424.15,
subdivisions (e)(1) and (e)(2) (in addition to (e)(4)) because it was submitted
and recorded in connection with a “official proceeding.” Preliminarily, the Court
did not give the Defendants leave to amend the basis of their motion by way of
a supplemental brief.  Nowhere it their
motion or memorandum, or even reply memorandum do Defendants assert the submittal
of the eligibility affidavit fits withing subdivision (e)(1) or (e)(2).  The Court’s consideration of this new argument
would be fundamentally unfair to the Plaintiff because it was not asserted in
Defendant’s motion, and the Court permitted the simultaneous briefing to the issue
that was raised in the motion of whether the recording of the affidavit was “a
matter of public interest” under subdivision (e)(4). Under these circumstances,
the Court finds it would be imporper to grant the motion on the new grounds
asserted after the first hearing under subdivision (e)(1) or (e)(2). 
 
            Regardless,
Defendants observe that under Section 2924m, subdivision (j) the Attorney General
and municipal attorneys “may bring an action for specific performance or any
other remedy at equity or at law to enforce this section”; and, under subdivision
(k) “[t]he Department of Justice shall include a summary of information
contained in the reports received pursuant to subdivision (i) in a searchable
repository on its official internet website.” 
From this Defendants argue the statements made in the affidavit under section
2024m [in the course of a nonjudicial foreclosure sale] is a statement made
before a “official proceeding” under (e)(1), or a statement made “in connection
with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or
judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law” under (e)(2).
 (Defendants’ supplemental brief filed 10/24/2024,
p.3.)  The Court is not persuaded by
Defendant’s belated argument that the submittal of the eligibility affidavit under
Civil Code section 2924m is an issue under “official review.”  
 
Defendant’s reliance on Kibler
v. Northern Inyo County Local Hospital Dist. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 192 is
misplaced.  In Kibler the Supreme
Court concluded “the Legislature has accorded a hospital's peer review
decisions a status comparable to that of quasi-judicial public agencies whose
decisions likewise are reviewable by administrative mandate. In that respect,
these peer review committees oversee “matters of public significance,” as
described in the anti-SLAPP statute.  Here,
the is nothing about the submittal of the eligibility affidavit in connection with
a nonjudicial foreclosure sale that is comparable to a hospital’s peer review
decisions that are conducted as an “aid to the appropriate state licensing boards”
or is “comparable to that of quasi-judicial public agencies whose decisions are
reviewable by administrative mandate” [See id. at 46.). 
            
            Defendants
do not meet their burden to show Plaintiff’s claims a are based on protected
speech or conduct under CCP § 425.16. Because Defendants do not meet their
burden on the first step of the SLAPP analysis, the Court will not analyze the
second step including Plaintiff’s probability of prevailing on the Complaint.Case
Name:  Cagle v. Rublevich, et al.


Case No.:


24SMCV01890 


Complaint Filed:


4-4-24 




Hearing Date:


10-31-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


16


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None


SUBJECT:
                DEMURRER W/O MTSMOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Eve Rublevich,
Eden Rublevich, Michael Rublevich, Yiffat RublevichRESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Jeffrey Cagle
 TENTATIVE
RULING            Defendants Eve
Rublevich, Eden Rublevich, Michael Rublevich, Yiffat Rublevich Demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 1st cause of action in for
Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 2924m, and OVERRULED as to the 2nd–7th
causes of action. The 1st cause of action for Violation of Cal. Civ.
Code § 2924m is not a private right of action, and thus fails as matter of law.
Defendant does not provide any persuasive arguments for the demurrer to the
additional causes of action, nor does Defendant argue that the necessary facts
are not properly alleged within the causes of action.              Plaintiffs
Request for Leave to File an Amended Complaint is DENIED for failing to follow
the procedural requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff is
urged to file a procedurally correct motion for leave to amend.              Defendants
RJN No. 1–4 is GRANTED.  Defendants RJN No. 5 is GRANTED as
to the existence of articles, court documents, and the administrative ruling
documents, but not to the “truth of the hearsay statements in the documents.” (In
re Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314.) REASONINGI.               
Demurrer to the 1st cause of action for
Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 2924m) – SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND(d) The trustee may reasonably rely on affidavits and declarations
regarding bidder eligibility received under this section. The affidavit or
declaration of the winning bidder shall be attached as an exhibit to the
trustee's deed and recorded. If the winning bidder is not required to submit an
affidavit or declaration pursuant to this section, the trustee shall attach as
an exhibit to the trustee's deed a statement that no affidavit or declaration
is required by this section, and the lack of an affidavit or declaration shall
not prevent the deed from being recorded and shall not invalidate the transfer
of title pursuant to the trustee's deed.(Civ. Code, § 2924m, subd. (d).)(i) For trustee's sales where the winning bidder is an eligible bidder
under this section, the trustee or an authorized agent shall electronically
send the following information to the office of the Attorney General within 15
days of the sale being deemed final:. . . . (4) A copy of the trustee's deed, as executed,
including the attached affidavit or declaration of the winning bidder.(Civ. Code, § 2924m, subd. (i)(4).)             Defendants Eve Rublevich, Eden Rublevich,
Michael Rublevich, Yiffat Rublevich (collectively “Defendants”) demur to the 1st
cause of action for violation of Cal Civ. Code §2924m in Plaintiff Jeffrey
Cagle’s (“Cagle”) Complaint arguing there is no express or implied  private right of action under this statute.
(Demurrer, at p. 6–9.) Defendants argue that the statute expressly states that
the “[t]he Attorney General, a county counsel, a city attorney, or a district
attorney may bring an action for specific performance or any other remedy at
equity or at law to enforce this section,” but is silent as to private parties
enforcing the statute. (Civ. Code, § 2924m, subd. (j).)              “A private party can sue for violation of a
statute only where the statute in question allows it.” (Mayron v. Google LLC
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 566, 571.) “Where the text does not contain an
unmistakable directive, the legislative history may indicate whether the
Legislature intended to create a private cause of action. (Ibid.)
Defendants are correct that there is no express private right of action within
CC § 2924m, and in fact the statute expressly states who can bring an action
under this statute.              Defendants
argue there is no implied private right action in the legislative history because
the legislative history between 2020 and 2023 was silent on permitting a
private right of action, and over the course of three amendments in three consecutive
years the legislature added the “ability for governmental entities and only
governmental entities as the enforcement arm of the statute.” (Demurrer, p. 8.)
Upon a search of the legislative history provided by Defendants in their RJN,
no enforcement mechanism is mentioned other than what the motion currently
states. Thus it would appear as if additionally there is no implied private
right of action in the legislative history to allow this claim to proceed.              Additionally,
in the opposition, Cagel concedes the point of no private right of action
within CC § 2924m, and argues that Cagle has successfully pled the 4th
cause of action for quiet title, 5th cause of action for violations of bus and prof code 17200, and 7th cause of action for tortious interference.              Thus, at the very minimum Defendants
Demurrer to the 1st cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. II.            
Demurrer to the 2nd–7th
causes of action—OVERRULED             Defendants
demur to the remaining causes of action arguing that a SLAPP motion is the
appropriate mechanism to dispose of these causes of action. (Demurrer, at p.
10.) Defendants do not provide any arguments to show that Plaintiff has not
plead the remaining causes of action with sufficient facts to satisfy the
individual elements of the causes of action.  Instead, Defendants conclusively argue that Cagel
will “not be able to prevail on any causes of action as a matter of law.” (Ibid.)             In the Reply,
Defendants argue that because there is no private right of action for a CC §
2924m violation, all the additional claims fail because the claims are based on
a violation of the statute. Defendants provide no authority for this argument
other than the conclusory statement. The Court cannot find any authority for the
argument that a claim cannot survive demurrer if it is based on a statute with
no private right of action but the cause of action itself is not a violation of
the statute with no private right of action. Defendants ignore the fact that
the additional causes of action might state the facts to reach the elements of
those specific causes of action, but also include additional allegations of a
violation of CC § 2924m. Thus, Defendants argument is not persuasive as to the
remaining causes of action.              Defendants argue that
the remaining cause of action fail because when the Unlawful Detainer
proceedings were commenced, the occupancy requirement of CC § 2924m(g) was
statutorily excused. (Demurrer, pp. 9:18–10:3; see Civ. Code, § 2924m, subd.
(g) [“A prospective owner-occupant shall not be in violation of this section if
a legal owner's compliance with the requirements of Section 2924n renders them
unable to occupy the property as their primary residence within 60 days of the
trustee's deed being recorded.”].)

            Defendants argue
factual elements allegedly located within their RJN No 5. The Court cannot take
judicial notice to the truth of the facts within the documents submitted in the
RJN No. 5, and thus Defendants arguments are without merit at this stage.              Defendants demurrer to
the 2nd–7the causes of action is OVERRULED. III.          
Leave
to Amend               A
motion for leave to amend a pleading must “[i]nclude a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading,” “[s]tate what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be” deleted and/or added. ((Cal. R. Ct. 3.1324(a).)  A motion for leave to amend a pleading must
also be supported by a separate declaration specifying (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1324(b).) 
            In
the Opposition, Cagle requests leave to amend the complaint to add additional
causes for Cancellation of Written Instrument, Conspiracy and Aiding and
Abetting Fraud action. Cagel does not provide a supporting declaration abiding
by Rule 3.1324(b) of the Cal Rules of Court, nor does Cagle include a copy of
the proposed FAC within the opposition. Thus, the request for leave to file the
FAC is DENIED for failing to abide by the procedural requirements. Cagle can
file a separate motion for leave to file the FAC abiding by the statutory
requirements.