 Case Number:  23STCV11385    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CASA GOLONDRINA, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11385
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S SPECIAL
  MOTION TO STRIKE (ANTI-SLAPP MOTION)
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 9, 2023



 
On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff Casa Golondrina, Inc. filed
this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles and UNITE HERE Local 11 (“Union”),
alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) declaratory relief; (4) interference with contract; and (5) interference
with prospective economic advantage.
On August 11, 2023, the Union filed a
special motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (“anti-SLAPP
motion”), seeking to strike the fourth and fifth causes of action (the only causes
of action brought against it).
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The
Union’s request for judicial notice is denied as irrelevant.  The Court did not rely on these documents.
DISCUSSION
“A
cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance
of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to
a special motion to strike unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established
that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)
“A
court’s consideration of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process.  ‘First, the court decides whether the defendant
has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity.  The moving defendant’s
burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were
taken “in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under
the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue,”
as defined in the statute.  [Citation.]  If the court finds such a showing has been made,
it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing
on the claim.’  [Citation.]  In the second step, the plaintiff must only bring
forward sufficient evidence to make out a viable prima facie case at trial, a burden
that ‘is not particularly high.’  [Citation.]”  (O&C Creditors Group, LLC v. Stephens &
Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546, 565-566.)
A.        Plaintiff’s Claims Are Based On Three
Categories Of Speech.
The
City, through its Commission, administers the provisions of the City charter relating
to the operation of El Pueblo.  (Complaint
¶ 2.)  Plaintiff and the General Manager of
El entered into a purchase agreement for Casa La Golondrina Café.  (Complaint ¶¶ 12-13.)  The assignment of the Concessionaire Agreement
between the seller and the City required approval from the Commission.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 13-14.)
The
Union represents workers employed in hotels, restaurants, airports, sports arenas
and convention centers.  (Complaint ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff alleges that the Union engaged in three
categories of speech when it allegedly interfered with the assignment of the Concessionaire
Agreement to Plaintiff in connection with the purchase of the Café.  (E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 1, 13-14, 88, 96.)
            1.         Communications From the Union to Plaintiff
On
November 4, 2021, the Union emailed it asking to meet about Plaintiff’s plans for
the La Golondrina restaurant in the event that a sale was approved and finalized.  (Complaint ¶ 19; Blasi Decl., Ex. A.)  On December 3, 2021, the Union’s Co-President
emailed Plaintiff to again request a meeting “to ensure we are on the same page
to make a smooth transition.”  (Complaint
¶ 23.)  Plaintiff disagreed that there was
a provision in the seller’s union contract that required Plaintiff to accept the
former contract.  (Complaint ¶ 23.)  On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff and the Union
Co-President met, and the Co-President told Plaintiff “that Plaintiff needed to
accept the former owners’ expired union contract with no changes.”  (Complaint ¶ 24.)  When Plaintiff said it planned on utilizing less
staff, the Co-President replied, “That will be a problem.”  (Complaint ¶ 25.)  The Union’s Co-President also said that it was
the Union who was pressuring Kevin De Leon to hold up the transfer approval.  (Complaint ¶ 26.)  On December 23, 2021, Plaintiff asked the Union
to send the seller’s expired union contract. 
(Complaint ¶ 28.)  On February 14,
2023, the Union sent Plaintiff h the expired collective bargaining agreement and
a “contract assumption agreement” to sign. 
(Complaint ¶ 42.)
            2.         Communications
From the Union to City Officials
The
Union recommended an investigation by the Small Business Administration and the
Department of Justice of the PPP loan that Plaintiff received due to misused funds.  (Complaint ¶ 39.)  The Union copied “virtually every politician in
government that it had connections with” on that email.  (Complaint ¶ 40.)
On
February 28, 2022, El Pueblo’s General Manager told Plaintiff that a Union representative
had called the mayor’s office and asked them to stop the transfer.  (Complaint ¶ 46.)  During a Commission meeting on April 28, 2022,
the Union urged the Commission to reject the rent abatement proposal.  (Complaint ¶¶ 53-54.)
The
Union talked with Kevin De Leon and other City officials about its views on the
proposed transfer.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 20,
26, 33, 39-40, 43, 46, 54, 57, 88, 96.)  Plaintiff
alleges that the Union conspired with De Leon to oppose the transfer and concession
agreement.  (Complaint ¶¶ 88, 96.)
            3.         Protests
Outside Restaurant
On
five dates, the Union staged a protest outside the vacant Café building.  (Complaint ¶ 38.)
B.        Plaintiff’s Claims Arise From the Union’s
Protected Activity.
The
Union argues that all of its statements and activity were made in connection with
issues that were pending before a government body.  (Motion at p. 12.)
“[A]ny
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration
or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law” is protected under the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(2).)  “Any matter pending before an official proceeding
possesses some measure of ‘public significance’ owing solely to the public nature
of the proceeding, and free discussion of such matters furthers effective exercise
of the petition rights section 425.16 was intended to protect.”  (Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity
(1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1118.)
The
Union is alleged to have lobbied government officials, participated in public meetings,
spoke with interested parties, and staged a protest regarding the transfer assignment.  These statements and expressive conduct were clearly
made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by the City and its
Commission.
Plaintiff
does not dispute this point.  (See generally
Opposition.)  Instead, Plaintiff argues that
the speech is not protected because it was illegal extortion.  (Opposition at pp. 3-4.)
Generally,
conduct protected by the anti-SLAPP statute does not lose its coverage simply because
a plaintiff alleges that it was unlawful or unethical.  (Kashian v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th
892, 910-911.)  An exception applies in “a
narrow circumstance, where either the defendant concedes the illegality of its conduct
or the illegality is conclusively shown by the evidence, the motion must be denied.  The rationale is that the defendant cannot make
a threshold showing that the illegal conduct falls within the purview of the statute
. . . .”  (Flatley v. Mauro (2006)
39 Cal.4th 299, 316.)  “If, however, a factual
dispute exists about the legitimacy of the defendant’s conduct, it cannot be resolved
within the first step but must be raised by the plaintiff in connection with the
plaintiff’s burden to show a probability of prevailing on the merits.”  (Ibid.)  The showing on this first prong analysis must
be “either through defendant’s concession or by uncontroverted and conclusive evidence.”  (Id. at p. 320.)
Defendant
does not concede any illegal activity.  (See
generally Motion and Reply.)  Plaintiff also
lacks uncontroverted and conclusive evidence of extortion.  “‘Extortion is the obtaining of property from
another, with his consent, or obtaining of an official act of a public officer,
induced by wrongful use of force or fear, or under color of official right.’  ([Pen. Code,] § 518.)  Attempted extortion is defined in section 524
as an attempt, ‘by means of any threat, such as is specified in Section 519 of this
code, to extort money or other property from another.’  The elements of attempted extortion are ‘(1) a
specific intent to commit extortion and (2) a direct ineffectual act done towards
its commission.’  [Citation.]”  (People v. Umana (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th
625, 638-639.)  “Threatening to do something
that a person has a legal right to do does not constitute extortion.”  (People v. Kaufman (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th
370, 394.)  As previously discussed, the Union’s
petitioning conduct, including contacting elected officials on a matter under government
review, was protected speech.  The Union also
has a right to discuss a collective bargaining agreement with Plaintiff.
Plaintiff
argues that the Union’s speech is evidence of Plaintiff’s claims, not the basis
for the claims.  (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)  This action vastly differs from Plaintiff’s examples.  In Department of Fair Employment & Housing
v. 1105 Alta Loma Road Apartments, LLC (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1273, “[t]he act
giving rise to liability was the ‘fail[ure] to accommodate [the tenant’s] disability’
by allowing the tenant time to seek alternate housing; ‘[t]he letters, e-mail and
filing of unlawful detainer actions constituted DFEH’s evidence [emphasis in original]
of [the landlord’s] alleged disability discrimination.’”  (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1066-1067 (Park).)  In Martin v. Inland Empire Utilities Agency
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 611, “‘the pleadings establish[ed] that the gravamen of plaintiff's
action against defendants was one of racial and retaliatory discrimination, not
an attack on [defendants] for their evaluations of plaintiff's performance as an
employee.’  [Citation.]  Liability, if any, would arise from the constructive
discharge of the plaintiff for illegal reasons, not the defendants’ evaluations
of the plaintiff at the agency's board meeting.”  (Park, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p.1066.)
Here,
the Union’s alleged liability for interference with Plaintiff’s contract is only
its protected speech: the Union petitioned City officials, spoke at a Commission
meeting, and staged a public protest.  No
other non-expressive conduct is alleged as the basis for the interference claims.
Plaintiff
also argues that the First Amendment does not apply when public policy is violated.  (Opposition at pp. 11-12.)  Plaintiff relies solely on its contention that
extortion is not protected speech.  (See id.
at pp. 3-4, 12.)  Because Plaintiff has not
alleged or even demonstrated extortion, this argument lacks any basis.
In
sum, the Court finds that the conduct at issue satisfies the first prong of the
analysis.
C.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown A Probability
Of Prevailing On the Merits.
“To
satisfy the second prong—the probability of prevailing—the plaintiff must demonstrate
that the complaint is legally sufficient and supported by a prima facie showing
of facts to support a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff
is accepted.  The trial court considers the
pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant.  Although ‘“‘the court does not weigh the
credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should grant
the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant’s evidence supporting the motion
defeats the plaintiff’s attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.  [Citation.]” 
[Citation.]’  [Citation.]”  (Kenne v. Stennis (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
953, 962-963.)  “An anti-SLAPP motion is an
evidentiary motion.  Once the court reaches
the second prong of the analysis, it must rely on admissible evidence, not merely
allegations in the complaint or conclusory statements by counsel.”  (Finton Construction, Inc. v. Bidna & Keys,
APLC (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 213.)
The
Union argues that the Noerr-Pennington doctrine immunizes it from liability
for its petitioning conduct.  (Motion at pp.
15-17.)  In Noerr-Pennington, the Supreme
Court “held that no cause of action was alleged insofar as it was predicated upon
mere attempts to influence the Legislative Branch for the passage of laws or the
Executive Branch for their enforcement.” 
(California Motor Transport Co. v. Trucking Unlimited (1972) 404 U.S.
508, 510.)  “Noerr-Pennington applies
to all facets of the exercise of the right of petition, from litigation to attempts
to influence opinion.”  (Ludwig v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 23, n. 22.) 
This doctrine applies to claims for tortious interference with prospective
economic advantage.  (Theme Promotions,
Inc. v. News America Marketing FSI (9th Cir. 2008) 546 F.3d 991, 1007.)
Plaintiff
argues that the Noerr-Pennington doctrine does not apply where the petitioning
activity is a “sham.”  (Opposition at p. 11.)  According to Plaintiff, the Union’s actions “were
designed to compel Plaintiff to sign the CBA in violation of public policy.  That its ‘petitioning’ was a sham is clear since
if its ‘petitioning’ about the Assignment, rent abatement and sewer repair were
successful Plaintiff would never be able to open and hire employees and, therefore,
Union would have no one to organize.”  (Ibid.)
“The
‘sham’ exception to Noerr encompasses situations in which persons use the
governmental process—as opposed to the outcome of that process—as
an anticompetitive weapon.  A classic example
is the filing of frivolous objections to the license application of a competitor,
with no expectation of achieving denial of the license but simply in order to impose
expense and delay.  [Citation.]  A ‘sham’ situation involves a defendant whose
activities are ‘not genuinely aimed at procuring favorable government action’ at
all, [citation], not one ‘who “genuinely seeks to achieve his governmental result,
but does so through improper means,”’ [citation].”  (City of Columbia v. Omni Outdoor Advertising,
Inc. (1991) 499 U.S. 365, 380.)  There
is no evidence that the Union’s petitioning activity was frivolous or an improper
use of the governmental process.
Because
the Noerr-Pennington doctrine provides immunity to the Union, the Court will
not reach the Union’s other immunity and privilege arguments.
Plaintiff
has not and cannot prove a probability of prevailing on the merits of its interference
claims.
CONCLUSION
The
anti-SLAPP motion is GRANTED, and the fourth and fifth causes of action against
the Union are stricken.  The Union is DISMISSED
from this action.
The
Union is awarded its attorney fees and costs incurred for this motion, subject to
the filing of a motion for attorney fees. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 