 Case Number:  22STCV28077    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



FERGUSON ENTERPRISES, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GREEN COURT INVESTORS, LP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV28077
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 9, 2023



 
On August 29, 2022, Ferguson Enterprises LLC filed this
action (Case No. 22STCV28077) against Green Court Investors LP, Infinity Plumbing
Inc., Marco Marquez, and Maria Carmen Marquez. 
Marco Marquez and Infinity Plumbing Inc. later filed a cross-complaint against
KLS Financial LLC, Kim Shapiro, and Green Court Investors LP.  Green Court Investors LP also filed a cross-complaint
against Marco Marquez, Infinity Plumbing Inc., and Maria Carmen Marquez.
On October 12, 2022, Hajoca Corporation
filed Case No. 22STLC06776 against Infinity Plumbing Inc., Marco Marquez, Maria
Carmen Marquez, and Green Court Investors LP. 
Infinity Plumbing Inc. later filed a cross-complaint against Green Court
Investors and KLS Financial LLC.  Green Court
Investors also filed a cross-complaint against Infinity Plumbing Inc. and Marco
Marquez.
On January 17, 2023, the two cases were
related.  On October 16, 2023, Green Court
Investors LP, KLS Financial LLC, and Kim Shapiro filed a motion to consolidate the
cases.

“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court,
it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd. (a).)  The purpose of consolidation is to enhance trial
court efficiency by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and the danger
of inconsistent adjudications.  (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979 (Todd-Stenberg).)
According
to the moving parties, both cases arise out of a copper re-piping contract between
Green Court and Infinity for the re-piping of real property.  (Motion at p. 6.)  Infinity purchased plumbing supplies from plumbing
suppliers Ferguson and Hajoca and failed to pay either of them for the materials
and supplies purchased.  (Ibid.)  Both Ferguson and Hajoca then sued Green Court
as the owner of the property where the materials and supplies were purportedly used,
as well as suing Infinity and its owners (Marco Marquez and Maria Carmen Marquez)
who personally guaranteed the credit extended to Infinity by each of the plumbing
suppliers for failing to pay the materials and supplies provided to Infinity.  (Ibid.)  Green Court filed a cross-complaint in both cases
against Infinity, Marco Marquez, and Maria Carmen Marquez for, among other things,
breach of the contract between Green Court and Infinity.  (Ibid.)  Infinity also filed a cross-complaint in both
cases against Green Court and KLS and against Shapiro (for defamation in the Ferguson
case only) for breach of the same contract, breach of the covenant of good faith,
and fair dealing and indemnity.  (Ibid.)
Both
cases involve the issues of whether the contract between Green Court and Infinity
was breached and, if so, by whom and what are the damages suffered by the non-breaching
party.  (Adelson Decl. ¶ 3.)  In addition, both cases involve Infinity’s non-payment
of monies to its suppliers and Infinity’s claim for indemnity against Green Court
and KLS based on the claim that it did not pay its suppliers because it did not
receive the balance under the contract with Green Court despite being paid over
$311,000 by Green Court.  (Adelson Decl. ¶
3.)
A
settlement has been reached in Case No. 22STLC06776 between Infinity, Marco Marquez,
and Maria Carmen Marquez, on the one hand, and Hajoca, on the other hand, whereby
Hajoca will be dismissing those parties with prejudice and will also dismiss Green
Court with prejudice once Infinity satisfies the terms of the settlement.  (Adelson Decl. ¶ 5.)  Once Hajoca dismisses those parties, the only
claims left in Case No. 22STLC06776 will be the competing cross-complaints of Green
Court and Infinity.  (Adelson Decl. ¶ 5.)
Although
written discovery has been exchanged in both cases, no depositions have been noticed
or taken in either case.  (Adelson Decl. ¶
4.)  The same witnesses will need to testify
in both cases and by consolidating the dates, it will eliminate the need for duplicative
testimony of the parties as well as percipient third party witnesses.  (Adelson Decl. ¶ 6.)
The
Court finds that there are common questions of law and fact, and consolidation would
enhance trial court efficiency by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and
the danger of inconsistent adjudications. 
(See Todd-Stenberg, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 978-979.)
Accordingly,
the unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Case No.
22STCV28077 and Case No. 22STLC06776 are consolidated.  Case No. 22STCV28077 is the lead case, and all
future pleadings must be filed under this case number.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 