 Case Number:  21STCV18058    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HENRY AGUILA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV18058
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER TO
  FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 9, 2023



 
On
May 13, 2021, Restaurant Design Studio Inc. (“RDS”) filed this action against Henry
Aguila, Joseph Shabani, Kamyar D. Shabani, Mercury Bowl LLC, Green Rivera LLC, and
Optimus Properties LLC.  The complaint alleged
breach of contract by Aguila and tortious interference of contract by the other
defendants.
On
May 24, 2021, RDS dismissed Joseph Shabani, Kamyar D. Shabani, Mercury Bowl LLC,
Green Rivera LLC, and Optimus Properties LLC with prejudice.
On
September 23, 2021, Aguila filed a cross-complaint against Joseph Shabani, Kamyar
D. Shabani, Mercury Bowl LLC, Green Rivera LLC, and Optimus Properties LLC.  On March 30, 2023, Aguila filed a first amended
cross-complaint (“FACC”), alleging (1) tortious interference of contract; (2) equitable
indemnity; and (3) declaratory relief.
On
April 25, 2023, Joseph Shabani, Kamyar D. Shabani, and Optimus Properties LLC (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) filed a demurrer to the FACC.  Cross-Defendants’ request for judicial notice
with the Reply is granted.
On
June 13, 2023, a stipulated judgment was entered in favor of RDS and against Aguila
in the amount of $2,762,500.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
Cross-Defendants argue that the FACC does not state a claim for tortious
interference with contract.  “Tortious interference
with contractual relations requires ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between
the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract;
(3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’” 
(Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141.)
The FACC alleges that Aguila, through his alter ego Thee Aguila Inc.,
owned the subject property.  (FACC ¶ 10.)  Aguila had previously entered into a contract
with RDS for contracting services to improve the property.  (FACC ¶ 17; see Complaint ¶ 10 [“On July 20, 2016,
RDS entered into a contract with AGUILA wherein RDS would perform general contractor
work at AGUILA’s property . . .”].)  In March
2017, Aguila notified Joseph Shabani and Optimus that he would begin
construction.  (FACC ¶ 12.)
In
January 2018, during construction, a dispute arose between Aguila and the lender
who held a first trust deed secured by the property.  (FACC ¶ 13.) 
On October 2, 2019, Cross-Defendants purchased the property from the
lender who acquired the property at a foreclosure sale.  (FACC ¶ 14.)
“[O]n or about August 5, 2020, for some inexplicable reason, other
than spite, after more hostile e-mail banter between the parties concerning the
void foreclosure sale, while the world was in the middle of a pandemic, Cross-Defendants
demolished the building on the PROPERTY and destroyed all the work product and expenditures
of Plaintiff and Cross-Complainant.”  (FACC
¶ 15.)  This interfered with the contractual
relationship between Aguila RDS, and Cross-Defendants “acted with knowledge that
demolishing and destroying the PROPERTY was certain or substantially certain to
interfere with the contractual relationship between AGUILA and whoever was conducting
those renovations, which was RDS.”  (FACC
¶ 18.)
There are several problems with the FACC’s allegations.
First, Aguila does not allege that Cross-Defendants knew of his contract
with RDS.  Their knowledge that he “would
commence construction pursuant to the approved plans” (FACC ¶ 12) does not allege
knowledge of an existing contract.  Additionally,
alleging that Cross-Defendants acted with knowledge that the demolition “was certain
or substantially certain to interfere with the contractual relationship between
AGUILA and whoever was conducting those renovations, which was RDS,” is also insufficient.  It too does not allege Cross-Defendants’ actual
knowledge of the parties, the specific contract, or any terms.  (See Winchester Mystery House, LLC v. Global
Asylum, Inc. (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 579, 597.)
Second, Aguila did not own the property, so it is unclear how the owners’
demolition of their own property interfered with Aguila’s rights.  (See RJN, Ex. 5 [grant deed].)  Although Aguila alleges that there was a conspiracy
and void foreclosure sale (FACC ¶ 14), the Court of Appeal recently made clear that
the foreclosure sale was valid and did not violate the automatic bankruptcy stay.  (RJN, Ex. 1 at pp. 12-14.)  To the extent that Aguila alleges that he entered
into a fifty-year lease for the property with Thee Aguila Inc., his alter ego (FACC
¶ 15), the Court of Appeal confirmed that, according to Aguila’s own declaration,
this lease was one that Aguila granted to himself years after he lost the property
to the foreclosure sale.  (RJN, Ex. 1 at pp.
2, 4.)
Third, Aguila does not allege how Cross-Defendants’ demolition in fact
interfered with his contract with RDS.  In
the original Complaint, RDS alleged that it performed all conditions, covenants,
and promises required on its part, but on August 5, 2020, Aguila breached the contract
by refusing to pay for work that had been completed prior to the property’s demolition.  (Complaint ¶¶ 14-15.)  It is not clear how Cross-Defendants’ demolition
of the property caused the breakdown of Aguila’s contract with RDS.
Because the first cause of action for tortious interference with contract
does not state a claim, the second and third causes of action for equitable indemnity
and declaratory relief also do not state a claim.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 