  Case Number:  23STCV23403    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’
Motion to Stay During Pendency of Appeal 
Defendants
California Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity Eye Group, Acuity Holdings, LLC,
Trilogy Eye Medical Group, Inc., Tom Chang, M.D., and Michael Samuel, M.D.,
move to stay this action pending their appeal of the court’s order denying
their motion to compel arbitration.   
Defendants
argue the court must stay the action pending appeal because the parties agreed
to adopt the procedures of the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA).  The FAA permits an interlocutory appeal of an
order denying a motion to compel arbitration. 
(9 U.S.C. § 16(a)(1)(B).)  In federal
court, “[t]he district court must stay its proceedings” pending such an
interlocutory appeal.  (Coinbase, Inc.
v. Bielski (2023) 599 U.S. 736, 738 (Coinbase).)  The California Arbitration Act (CAA) also
permits appeal of an order denying a motion to compel arbitration.  (CCP § 1294(a).)  But such an appeal “shall not automatically
say any proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of the appeal.”  (Ibid.)  Defendants also argue that, despite Code of
Civil Procedure section 1294, staying the action is mandatory under California
law for other reasons.
The
court does not reach the issue of whether staying the action pending appeal is
mandatory.  The court will instead
exercise its discretion to stay the action.  “Even
when the statutes do not call for an automatic stay on appeal, the trial and
appellate courts both have the power to issue discretionary stays.”  (Daly v. San Bernardino County Bd. of
Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1039 (Daly).)  “ ‘[A] court ordinarily has inherent power,
in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the
ends of justice.’ ”  (OTO, L.L.C. v.
Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 141.)  “
‘[T]he power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power inherent in every
court to control the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of
time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants.’ ”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s opposition argues the court
should consider the following four factors: “ ‘(1) whether the stay applicant
has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits; (2)
whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay; (3) whether
issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other parties interested in
the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies.’ ”  (Daly, supra, 11 Cal.4th at p. 1054,
fn. 13 [citing federal authority].) 
California courts have not adopted these factors.  The court has considered these factors and
other relevant factors in deciding whether to grant a stay.
 
1. Likelihood of
Success on Appeal
Defendants
make a moderate showing of likelihood of success on appeal.  The court denied their motion to compel
arbitration for two reasons.  First, the
court ruled plaintiff was entitled to invalidate the agreement (at least in
part) under the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act (EFAA), which Congress enacted in 2022.  The court’s ruling relied on a recent
decision interpreting the EFAA.  (Kader
v. Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214.)  This area of law is still evolving.  Defendants may be able to succeed on their
appeal as to this issue.       
Second,
the court found the arbitration agreement was permeated by unconscionability.  Defendants’ papers in support of this motion do
not address this basis for the court’s order. 
Nonetheless, defendants will likely be able to make reasonable arguments
on appeal regarding unconscionability.  
2.
Irreparable Injury to Defendants
            Permitting this action to continue
pending appeal could irreparably harm defendants.  In addition to the four factors used by
federal courts, Daly noted the rule in the State of Washington: “ ‘[W]hether
a stay pending appeal should be granted depends on (1) whether the issue
presented by the appeal is debatable, and (2) whether a stay is necessary to
preserve for the movant the fruits of a successful appeal, considering the
equities of the situation.’ ”  (Daly,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1054.)  
Not
staying the action could completely deprive defendants of the fruits of a
successful appeal.  In discussing an
automatic stay pending appeal in federal court, the United States Supreme Court
stated: “The common practice… is for a district court to stay its proceedings
while the interlocutory appeal on arbitrability is ongoing.  That common practice reflects common sense.  Absent an automatic stay of district court
proceedings, Congress’s decision … to afford a right to an interlocutory appeal
would be largely nullified.  If the
district court could move forward with pre-trial and trial proceedings while
the appeal on arbitrability was ongoing, then many of the asserted benefits of
arbitration (efficiency, less expense, less intrusive discovery, and the like)
would be irretrievably lost—even if the court of appeals later concluded that
the case actually had belonged in arbitration all along.  Absent a stay, parties also could be forced to
settle to avoid the district court proceedings (including discovery and trial)
that they contracted to avoid through arbitration.”  (Coinbase supra, 599 U.S. at pp. 742–743.)
The
Court of Appeal has similarly noted, “In the absence of a stay, the
continuation of the proceedings in the trial court disrupts the arbitration
proceedings and can render them ineffective.” 
(Federal Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (Mackey) (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1370, 1375.)  
The
same reasoning applies here.  If
defendants succeed on appeal, they would be entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement.  This case is set for trial on
June 4, 2025.  There is a realistic chance
that, without a stay, this action may be fully adjudicated before the Court of
Appeal issues a decision.  In that
scenario, defendants will have already tried the action in court.  They would get no benefit from their right to
arbitrate.  Even if the action is not
fully adjudicated before the Court of Appeal issues an opinion, defendants will
be required to engage in substantial litigation they otherwise might have
avoided.    
3.
Injury to Plaintiff
Staying
the action is not likely to significantly injure plaintiff.  Plaintiff relies on the adage, “[O]ne of the
basic principles of our legal system” is that “justice delayed is justice
denied.”  (Dietrich v. Boeing Company
(9th Cir. 2021) 14 F.4th 1089, 1095.) 
Staying the action would delay plaintiff’s efforts to obtain relief for
her causes of action against defendants. 
But plaintiff identifies no specific injury or prejudice.  She makes the following generic argument: “Delaying
this case any longer would stand in the way of justice, as key witnesses may
move away, witness memories will inevitably fade, and documentary evidence
could be lost.”  (Opp., p. 14.)  She provides no details about these potential
injuries.  Moreover, plaintiff alleges
defendants fired her on February 23, 2022. 
(Comp., ¶ 123.)  She filed this
action 17 months later on September 27, 2023. 

The
civil legal system is rarely speedy.  Without
a stay, the trial would take place over three years after plaintiff’s
termination.  Plaintiff does not show
that additional delay is likely to result in losing evidence or other prejudice.  While staying the action will further delay
proceedings, it will not be a serious impediment to justice.             
4.
Public Interest
            The public interest moderately
favors plaintiff.  On the one hand, there
is “a ‘ “strong public
policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of
dispute resolution.” ’ ”  (Wagner
Construction Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19,
25.)  
On the other hand,
Congress enacted the EFAA to ensure any “person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute” can
litigate in court, despite their prior agreements waiving that right.  (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).)  And the
purpose of the Legislature’s recent amendment to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294(a) is to “give[] courts the discretion to prevent corporations
from using a common delay tactic against workers and consumers.”  (Assem. Com. on Appr., Analysis of Sen. Bill
No. 365 (2023-2024 Reg. Sess.) July 12, 2023, p. 1.)  This interest outweighs the competing
interest in favor of arbitration.
The court notes, however, that defendants’ appeal is
not just a delay tactic.  They made colorable
arguments in support of their motion to compel arbitration.  Their appeal is a legitimate effort to
enforce an arbitration contract. 
After
considering the totality of the circumstances, the court finds staying this
action pending appeal serves the interests of justice and judicial
economy.    
Disposition
            Defendants California
Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity Eye Group, Acuity Holdings, LLC, Trilogy Eye
Medical Group, Inc., Tom Chang, M.D., and Michael Samuel, M.D.’s motion to stay
the action pending appeal is granted. 
The court hereby stays the entire action pending defendants’
appeal.