 Case Number:  23TRCV03732    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
ABEL
  RAMIREZ, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03732




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Ruling
 




 
LAZ
  PARKING CALIFORNIA, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 25, 2024
 
Moving
Party:                         Defendant Derek Leroy Turner
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff Abel Ramirez
Motion to Set Aside
Default
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The default entered on February 27, 2024
against defendant Derek Leroy Turner is vacated.  Defense counsel is ordered to pay $100 to
plaintiff’s counsel in reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs. Defendant
is to file a responsive pleading forthwith.
BACKGROUND
            On November 9, 2023, plaintiff Abel
Ramirez filed a complaint against defendants LAZ Parking California, LLC and
Derek Leroy Turner for negligence based on an incident where plaintiff was
getting off the LAX-IT bus in the Lyft/Uber drop-off area at LAX, defendant bus
driver prematurely and negligently closed the bus doors and pinned plaintiff
between the doors.
            On February 15, 2024, LAZ Parking
filed an answer.
            On February 27, 2024, a default was
entered against defendant Turner.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“The court may, upon terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .”  CCP §473(b).
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant
to CCP §473(b), defendant Derek Leroy Turner requests that the court vacate the
default entered against him on February 27, 2024 based on inadvertence,
surprise, mistake, or excusable neglect.
            Defendant
asserts that on February 8, 2024, defense counsel received a file transmitted
by LAZ Parking California regarding the lawsuit.  Amongst the documents that were transmitted
included a notice of service of process indicating that LAZ Parking had been
served on January 5, 2024, and that there were no documents within the initial
file transmission as to defendant Turner. 
On February 15, 2024, defense counsel sent a letter to plaintiff’s
counsel advising that his office had been retained by LAZ Parking and would be
filing a responsive pleading.  Forrest
Misenti decl., ¶¶2-3.  Counsel states
that “[d]ue to mistake upon receipt of the client file, I failed to include
Defendant Derek Turner in the Notice of Representation transmitted to opposing
counsel and unintentionally omitted filing a responsive pleading on behalf of”
Turner.  Id., ¶5.  Upon receipt on February 27, 2024 of the
request for default as to Turner, defense counsel contacted plaintiff’s counsel
to explain that a mistake was made which resulted in an answer not being filed
on behalf of Turner.  He requested a
stipulation to set aside the default. 
Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to such a stipulation in exchange for $1000.  Id., ¶8. 
            In
opposition, plaintiff contends that although defendant did not seek relief
under the mandatory provision of CCP §473, plaintiff requests that the court
treat the relief as mandatory and to then impose fees and costs against
defendant and in favor of plaintiff in the amount of $1000.
            The
court rules as follows:  Defendant did
not specify either discretionary or mandatory relief.  On either grounds, relief is warranted, which
plaintiff does not oppose or dispute.  As
to whether the court should impose “legal fees and costs” to plaintiff, CCP §473(b)
states, in part:  “The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties.”  CCP 473(c)
states:  “(1) Whenever the court grants
relief from a default . . . based on any of the provisions of this section, the
court may do any of the following:  (A)
Impose a penalty of no greater than $1000 upon an offending attorney or party.  (B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an
amount no greater than $1000 to the State Bar Client Security Fund.  (C) Grant other relief as appropriate.  (2) However, where the court grants relief
from a default or default judgment pursuant to this section based upon the
affidavit of the defaulting party’s attorney attesting to the attorney’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, the relief shall not be made
conditional upon the attorney’s payment of compensatory legal fees or costs or
monetary penalties imposed by the court or upon compliance with other sanctions
ordered by the court.”  Here, the motion
was accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his mistake
(“[d]ue to mistake upon receipt of the client file, I failed to include . . .
and unintentionally omitted . . . .”), and thus, mandatory relief is warranted.
            Plaintiff
requests $1000 in legal fees and costs but does not support this request with
plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration that the request is a “reasonable
compensatory legal fee.”  Plaintiff does
not state the hourly rate or how much time was incurred to file the request for
entry of default.  The court notes that
an opposition was unnecessary as plaintiff agreed that relief from default was
warranted.  Although plaintiff has not
provided any information for the court to ascertain a “reasonable compensatory
legal fee,” the court, in its discretion, determines that $100 is a reasonable
compensatory fee.
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.  The default entered on February 27, 2024
against defendant Derek Leroy Turner is vacated.
Defense counsel is ordered to pay
$100 to plaintiff’s counsel as a reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs. Payment
is due within 30 days of the date of this Order.
Defendant is to file a responsive
pleading forthwith.
            Moving
defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling. 