  Case Number:  23TRCP00157    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JACOB
  SCHKUD, et al., 


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCP00157




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DALE
  FIRMAN,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 25, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Petitioners Jacob Schkud and Courtney Schkud
Responding
Party:                  Respondent Dale Firman
Petition
to Correct Arbitration Award
 
            The court considered the petition
and response.
RULING
            The petition is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On April 12, 2023, petitioners Jacob
and Courtney Schkud filed a petition to correct arbitration award against
respondent Dale Firman.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “Subject to Section 1286.8, the
court, unless it vacates the award pursuant to Section 1286.2, shall correct
the award and confirm it as corrected if the court determines that:  . . . (b) The arbitrators exceeded their
powers but the award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the
decision upon the controversy submitted . . . .” 
DISCUSSION
            Petitioners
Jacob and Courtney Schkud request that the court correct the arbitration award
to award costs in the amount of $67,968.62 and attorneys’ fees in the amount of
$208,370.50 incurred in the arbitration. 
            As
background, the parties participated in an arbitration before Hon. Andrew J.
Guilford (Ret.) on January 12, 12, 2022, February 10, 2022, May 4, 2022, and
July 27, 28, 2022 at Judicate West involving a residential purchase agreement (“RISC”)
for the purchase of a property at 1212 Cypress Ave., Hermosa Beach.  The arbitrator issued an award on September
6, 2022 in favor of petitioners (who were the respondents in the underlying
arbitration).  
On January
24, 2023, the arbitrator issued an Order on Fee and Cost Request, stating, in
part:
“Challenging
issues of timing and jurisdiction are raised by the attorney fee request.  Questions arise concerning choice of
law.  Regardless of how the many issues
are decided, the Arbitrator focuses, as he did during the many arbitration
hearings, on what fees are reasonable given all the circumstances of this
matter, including the potentially very small amount involved.  As the Schkud’s have noted, ‘At the outset of
the arbitration, the arbitrator raised and forewarned the parties that
reasonable attorneys fees recoverable under the contract’s mandatory attorneys
fees provision must be reasonable in relation to the roughly $100,000 amount in
dispute.’ 
 
The
Arbitrator notes that the Schkuds made a baseball arbitration demand that
significantly exceeded the amount involved, despite the arbitrator’s
forewarning.  Firman made no offer –
essentially an offer of zero.  If Firman
had agreed to baseball arbitration and offered zero in response to the Schkuds,
that is what he Arbitrator would have accepted. 
Although baseball arbitration was not mutually accepted, given all the
circumstances of this troubling matter, especially pushing forward with huge
fees, the Arbitrator finds that there are no reasonable attorney fees to
award.  The Arbitrator finds that there
is no reasonable evidence that the matter could not have settled early for far
less than the attorney fees now sought. 
Even if the other pending issues were resolved in favor of the Schkuds –
and that remains unclear – the Arbitrator cannot award attorney fees in this
case.  Awarding fees given all involved
in this case would be inconsistent with the intent of arbitration to promote an
economical resolution of disputes. . . . The Arbitrator cannot award attorney
fees in this case.” 
            On February
2, 2023, the Arbitrator issued an amended order, clarifying that the order also
includes costs.  It states, in part, that
the amended order “DENIES all requests for fees and costs” and that “[t]he
Arbitrator cannot award fees or costs in this case.”
The RISC
provides “25.  ATTORNEY FEES:  In any action, proceeding, or arbitration
between Buyer and Seller arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Buyer or
Seller shall be entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs from the
non-prevailing Buyer or Seller . . . .”
            Petitioners
contend that the arbitrator exceeded his powers by not awarding reasonable
attorney’s fees to petitioners who were the prevailing party in accordance with
paragraph 25.
            In
response, respondent argues that there is no ground for correcting the
arbitration award.  Respondent contends
that petitioners agreed to binding arbitration and the authority of the
arbitrator to decide on all issues in dispute, including the recovery of
attorney’s fees and costs.  Respondent
further asserts that the arbitrator has already issued an order on petitioners’
request for the recovery of attorney’s fees and costs, which was denied.  Respondent requests $3157.50 incurred as to
the response.
            The
court rules as follows:  An award
rendered by an arbitrator pursuant to a contractual agreement to arbitrate is
not subject to judicial review except on the grounds set forth in CCP 1286.2
(vacate) and 1286.6 (for correction).  Moncharsh
v. Heily v. Blase (1992) 3 Cal. 4th 1, 33.  “An award of attorney fees for the
arbitration itself is within the arbitrator’s purview. . . Thus, the issue of
the amount of attorney fees and costs to be awarded for the arbitration
proceeding was properly a matter for the arbitrator.  Further, not only is the determination as to
the amount properly within the purview of the arbitrator, we observe it is the
arbitrator, not the trial court, which is best situated to determine the amount
of reasonable attorney fees and costs to be awarded for the conduct of the
arbitration proceeding.”  DiMarco v.
Chaney (1995) 31 Cal. App. 4th 1809, 1816 (citations omitted).
            The
DiMarco court held that, “the trial court should have remanded the
matter to the arbitrator to determine the amount of attorney fees and
costs to which [the prevailing party] was entitled for the arbitration
proceeding, rather than making that determination at the trial court level. . .
. In view of the arbitrator’s apparent reluctance to award attorney fees and
costs to [the prevailing party], we remind the arbitrator he is compelled by
the parties’ agreement to award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the
prevailing party and lacks discretion to do otherwise.”  
            The
California Supreme Court in Moore v. First Bank of San Luis Obispo
(2000) 22 Cal. 4th 782, 787 determined that “[h]aving submitted the
fees issue to arbitration, plaintiffs cannot maintain the arbitrators exceeded
their powers, within the meaning of section 1286.6(b), by deciding it, even if
they decided it incorrectly.”  The
plaintiffs in Moore argued similar as the herein petitioners, that
having “implicitly designated plaintiffs the prevailing parties on the
contract. . . . the arbitrators had no power to refuse an award of attorney
fees, for the parties’ underlying agreement made such an award mandatory,”
citing to DiMarco, supra. 
The Court stated that the “Plaintiffs’ analysis fails because the
arbitrators did not designate a prevailing party for purposes of Civil Code
section §1717, either explicitly or implicitly. 
Plaintiffs may be correct that . . . they were the prevailing parties as
a matter of law.  Nonetheless the
arbitrators were asked, but failed, to designate them as such. . . . DiMarco,
in which the arbitrator expressly designated a prevailing party but refused to
award that party fees as mandated by the contract is thus
distinguishable.”  Id. at 788.
            As
to the herein arbitration, like in DiMarco, the Arbitrator explicitly
found that the Schkuds were the prevailing party:  The Arbitrator “finds and concludes that the
Schkuds prevail in this matter and entitled to an Award in their favor.” Also,
like in DiMarco, which involved the same type of contract, the contract
provided that the prevailing party “shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys
fees and costs.”  
            The
court finds that there is no basis to remand the issue of attorneys’ fees back
to the arbitrator because according to the order, the Arbitrator already has
reviewed and considered petitioners’ request for attorneys’ fees and costs and
found that there were no “reasonable” attorneys’ fees to award.  Thus, the herein case is distinguishable from
DiMarco, where the arbitrator had not determined the amount of attorney
fees and costs to which the prevailing party was entitled.  In the herein case, the arbitrator determined
the amount to be $0.
            The
petition to correct arbitration award is thus DENIED. 
 
ORDER
            The
petition is DENIED.
            Respondent
is ordered to give notice of ruling.