  Case Number:  24VECV01049    Hearing Date:   July 23, 2024    Dept:  T MICHAEL V SONIC 24VECV01049
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Mercedes Benz USA, LLC’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.
Defendant Mercedes Benz USA,
LLC’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to hearsay or facts in
dispute.
Introduction 
Defendant Mercedes Benz USA, LLC
(Defendant) moved to compel arbitration and to stay Plaintiffs Hany Michael and
Michel Michael’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.
Discussion 
Defendant moved to compel
arbitration based upon the arbitration 
provision found in the Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (Lease) entered
between Plaintiffs and Non-Party/Lessor Mercedes Benz of Beverly Hills
(Dealership) on July 9, 2023.  (Ali
Ameripour Decl., Exh. 2.)  
Defendant argued that they had
standing to enforce the arbitration agreement in the Lease as a third-party
beneficiary.  Defendant must show that
they are an intended third-party beneficiary by applying a “three-part
test”:  (1) “the third party would in
fact benefit from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the contracting
parties was to provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3) permitting the
third party to enforce the contract “is consistent with the objectives of the
contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th
817, 830 (Goonewardene).)  All three
elements must be satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.  (Id.)   
The Court finds that the arbitration agreement in the Lease directly
benefited Defendant because Defendant is expressly named as person that can
enforce the arbitration agreement. 
Further, the fact that Defendant is expressly named in the arbitration
agreement shows that the parties – Dealership, Plaintiff, and the financing
company (non-party Mercedes-Benz Vehicle Trust) – had a motivating purpose to
benefit Defendant.  As to the third
element, the fact that Defendant is expressly named as a party that can enforce
arbitration shows that allowing Defendant to enforce the arbitration agreement
is consistent with the objectives of the arbitration agreement and the
reasonable expectations of the parties. 
Defendant sufficiently showed that they had the right to enforce the
arbitration agreement, as a third-party beneficiary.
The Court noted that the parties
spend considerable time arguing third-party beneficiary cases related to
arbitration agreements found in vehicle sale or lease contracts (i.e.,
Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486; Ford Motor warranty Cases (2023)
89 Cal.App.5th 1324, review granted July 19, 2023, no. S279969; Montemayor v.
Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, review granted September 20, 2023,
no. S281237; Ngo v. BMW of North America (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 943; Kramer
v. Toyota Motor Corp. (9th Cir. 2013) 705 F.3d 1122.)  However, the instant action is factually
distinguishable from the cases argued by both parties.  The arbitration agreement in the instant action
expressly named Defendant as a third party beneficiary and as a party that had
rights to enforce the arbitration agreement. 
The arbitration agreements in the cases cited by the parties did not
expressly name the manufacturer as a third-party beneficiary or party that had
rights to enforce the arbitration agreement. 
Because of this factual distinction, the cases were not directly on
point.  The cases were reviewed as a
guide to the analysis above.
Defendant further attached to
their Reply orders from other State and Federal trial court level cases.  The Court did not review the attached orders
because they are not considered binding authority or precedential to this
Court. 
As an express and intended
third-party beneficiary, Defendant’s third-party beneficiary argument is
persuasive.  
The parties’ arguments over
equitable estoppel are moot and not considered.
Because Defendant is entitled to
enforce the arbitration agreement, Defendant has met its first burden on the
motion to compel – showing the existence of an arbitration agreement.  Further, the claims alleged in this action
are seen to fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement because the
scope of the arbitration agreement included any claim/dispute, whether in
contract, tort or otherwise which arises out of the credit application, the
lease, or any resulting transaction or relationship arising out of the
lease.  The Song-Beverly Warranty claims
in the Complaint are covered by the arbitration agreement.  Defendant met their burden on the motion to
compel arbitration.  The burden shifted
to Plaintiff to show a defense and Plaintiff’s opposition failed to do so.  The motion is persuasive.
The motion to compel arbitration
is GRANTED.
Defendant’s request to stay the
action pending arbitration is also persuasive pursuant Code of Civil Procedure,
section 1281.4 and 9 U.S.C. sec. 3.
The motion to stay the entire action
pending arbitration is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.