  Case Number:  23PSCV03862    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  K 1.                 
Defendants
Ulises Sanchez, Evans Food Group LTD, and Benestar Holdings LLC’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED.
Plaintiff David Dauer is ordered to serve his responses to the subject
discovery, without objections and with a verification, within 20 days
from the date of the notice of ruling. Sanctions
are awarded, jointly and severally, in the amount of $400.00 and are payable
within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling. 
 
2.                 
Defendants
Ulises Sanchez, Evans Food Group LTD, and Benestar Holdings LLC’s Motion to Deem Requests for
Admissions, Set One is GRANTED. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.280,
subdivision (b), the court orders the
truth of the matters specified in the Requests for Admissions, propounded by Defendants
to Plaintiff David Dauer deemed admitted.
 
3.                 
Defendants
Ulises Sanchez, Evans Food Group LTD, and Benestar Holdings LLC’s Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
Plaintiff David Dauer is ordered to serve his responses to the subject
discovery, without objections and with a verification, within 20 days
from the date of the notice of ruling. Sanctions
are awarded, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $230.00 and are
payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling. 
 
4.                 
Defendants
Ulises Sanchez, Evans Food Group LTD, and Benestar Holdings LLC’s Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED. Plaintiff
David Dauer is ordered to serve his responses to the subject discovery, without
objections and with a verification, within 20 days from the date of the
notice of ruling. Sanctions are
awarded, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $230.00 and are
payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling. 
Background[1]  
Plaintiff David Dauer (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On December 7, 2022, Plaintiff, while
driving, was injured when he was struck by another vehicle.
On December 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint, asserting
a cause of action for Negligence.
A Case Management Conference is set for July 31, 2024.
1.                 
Motion to Compel Re: Request for Production of
Documents
Legal Standard
A response to a request for production
of documents is due 30 days after service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) “If a
party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or 
sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, . . . [t]he party making the demand may 
move for an order compelling response
to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) 
 
“[T]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney
who 
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, 
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with 
substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).)
Discussion
Defendants move the court for an order compelling
Plaintiff to provide responses to the Request for Production of Documents, Set
One. Defendants also seeks sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of
$400.00.
Defendants’ counsel represents the following:
On January 29, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff
through his attorney of record a set of Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One and other discovery requests. (Declaration of Grace Siekbert, ¶2.) On
April 5, 2024, Defense Counsel Lisa Williams served a meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff requesting the responses by May 10, 2024. (Id. ¶3.) Responses
to the Requests for Production of Documents were due May 10, 2024. (Id.
¶3.) As of the date of the writing of this Motion, my office has received no
responses nor a request for a further extension. (Id. ¶5.)
 
The unopposed motion is granted.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses, without objections, within 20 days
from the date of notice of ruling. 
Sanctions
Defendants seek sanctions against Plaintiff
in the amount of $400.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 1
hour attending hearing at $170.00 /hour, plus $60.00 filing fees)].
Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality
of the circumstances, the court finds that the total and reasonable amount of
attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with
the pending motion is $400.00. Sanctions are awarded, jointly and severally,
and are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
2.         Motion to
Deem Requests for Admission Admitted
Legal Standard
A response to
requests for admission is due 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.250, subd.
(a).) “If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a 
timely response,
. . .[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any 
documents and the
truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted. . .” (Code 
Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that
the party
to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the

motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with 
Section 2033.220.
. .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
“It is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or
both,
whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Defendants move the court for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the
truth of any matters specified in the Requests for Admission, Set One (“subject
discovery”) propounded to Plaintiff be deemed admitted pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2033.280.
See synopsis of
Motion #1
The unopposed motion
is granted. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.280, subdivision
(b), the court orders that the truth of the matters specified in the Requests
for Admissions, Set No. One, propounded by Defendants to Plaintiff deemed
admitted.
3.         Motion to
Compel Re: Form Interrogatories (General)
Legal Standard
A response to interrogatories is due
30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.
(a).) “If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, . . . [t]he 
party propounding the interrogatories
may move for an order compelling response to the 
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (b).) 
“The court
shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Plaintiff
moves the court for an order compelling
Braun to provide verified responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One (“subject discovery”). Plaintiff also seeks sanctions
against Plaintiff in the amount of $400.00.
See synopsis of Motion #1.
The unopposed motion is granted. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide responses, without objections, within 20 days from the date
of notice of ruling.
Sanctions
Defendants seek sanctions against Plaintiff
in the amount of $400.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 1
hour attending hearing at $170.00 /hour, plus $60.00 filing fees)].
Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality
of the circumstances, the court finds that the total and reasonable amount of
attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with
the pending motion is $230.00 (i.e. 1 hour for preparing motion and filing
fee). Sanctions are awarded, jointly and severally, and are payable within 20
days from the date of the notice of ruling.
4.         Motion to
Compel Re: Special Interrogatories
Legal Standard
See Motion #3.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order compelling
Plaintiff to provide verified responses, without objections, to Defendants’
Form Interrogatories, Set One (“subject discovery”). Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $400.00.
See synopsis of
Motion #1.
The unopposed motion
is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses, without objections,
within 20 days from the date of notice of ruling.
Sanctions
Defendants seek sanctions against Plaintiff
in the amount of $400.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion, plus 1
hour attending hearing at $170.00 /hour, plus $60.00 filing fees)].
Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality
of the circumstances, the court finds that the total and reasonable amount of
attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with
the pending motion is $230.00 (i.e. 1 hour for preparing motion and filing
fee). Sanctions are awarded, jointly and severally, and are payable within 20
days from the date of the notice of ruling.


