 Case Number:  23STCV23364    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 8, 2024                       TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         111 W7 Owner LLC et al. v. 1200
Management LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV23364            
 
(1)
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
(2)
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant 1200 Management LLC ; (2) Plaintiffs 111
W 7 Owner, LLC, 600 S Spring Owner LLC and 650 S Spring Owner LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiffs 111
W 7 Owner, LLC, 600 S Spring Owner LLC and 650 S Spring Owner LLC; (2) Defendant
1200 Management LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/26/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/04/23: Cross-Complaint filed. 
·        
03/26/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for declaratory relief. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
entered into a series of purchase and sale agreements and lease agreements
concerning several mixed-use buildings. These agreements allegedly required
Defendant to pay a portion of operating, management, and maintenance costs,
except those costs that solely affect the residential portions of the property.
Plaintiffs also allege that the agreements obligated Defendant to cover costs
for subdivision of the commercial portions of the properties from the
residential portions. Plaintiffs claim that Defendants have refused to pay
these costs, and seek a declaration from the Court that they are required to do
so under the lease agreements.  
 
Following an ex parte application
from Defendant concerning a Temporary Restraining Order, the Court set a
hearing on an Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction regarding whether
Plaintiffs should be enjoined from terminating the master leases that are the
subject of this action. Plaintiffs simultaneously move for summary adjudication
of all three causes of action for breach of contract. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
request for a Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are enjoined and restrained from attempting to terminate Defendant’s leases for
the Subject Properties pending the final determination of this action. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Friday, September 20, 2024 at
9:00 AM. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction
 
            On May 9,
2024, Defendant applied ex parte for a Temporary Restraining Order
enjoining Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants from terminating the master leases on the
properties that are the subject of this dispute. The Court granted the
application in part on May 13, 2024, setting this matter for hearing and
ordering the parties to meet and confer regarding a briefing schedule. (May 13,
2024 Minute Order.) The Court declined to issue a Temporary Restraining Order
at that time based on Plaintiffs’ counsel’s agreement to extend the Notices of
Termination of Lease through August 21, 2024. (Id.) The Parties
subsequently agreed to a briefing schedule. (May 21, 2024 Stipulation.) All
parties complied with the briefing schedule, and the Court now rules on the
Order to Show Cause. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may request a preliminary injunction “by obtaining
and serving an order to show cause,” as Defendant has in this case, “when a
temporary restraining order is sought.” (Cal. Rule of Court 3.1150(a).) 
 
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 525.) “A preliminary
injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a verified
complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 527(a).) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases:    
 
(1) When it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually.  
 
(2)¿When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. 
 
(3)¿¿When
it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate
relief.  
 
(5) Where
it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief.  
 
            . . . . 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(1)-(5).) 
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, two
factors must be considered prior to issuing a preliminary injunction: (1) the
balance of the harm to the applicant should the injunction not issue, compared
to the harm to the enjoined party should the injunction issue; and (2) whether
the applicant is ultimately likely to prevail on the merits. (Common Cause
v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441-442.)  A trial court
has broad discretionary powers to grant or deny a request for a preliminary
injunction if it does not act capriciously.  The court should exercise its
judgment in favor of the party most likely to be injured. (Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 205.)  In addition, the two
factors are interrelated: the greater the Plaintiff’s showing as to one of the
factors, the less that must be shown as to the other factor. (Butt v. State
of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant raises evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of David Schneider in support of Plaintiffs’
opposition to the request for a preliminary injunction. The Court rules on
these objections as follows:
 
            Objection No. 10: SUSTAINED.
This statement is inadmissible hearsay. 
 
            As the remainder of the evidence to
which Defendant objects is not material to this ruling, the Court declines to
rule on the balance of Defendant’s objections. 
 
Balance of Harm and Risk of Irreparable Injury
 
            Defendant
contends that there is a substantial risk of irreparable harm should Plaintiffs
be permitted to terminate the master leases. 
 
            “Irreparable harm”
arises when monetary damages would not be sufficient to remedy the injury. (Wind
v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 276, 285; Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(4).)
Injuries rising from wrongs of “continuing character” may also constitute
“irreparable harm.” (People ex rel. Gow v. Mitchell Bros.’ Santa Ana Theater
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 863, 871.) An injunction preventing disposal of property
is proper if disposal would render the final judgment ineffectual. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 526(a)(3); Wilkins v. Oken (1958) 157 Cal.App.2d 603, 606-607.)
Real property is presumptively unique such that the loss of possession cannot
be adequately relieved by monetary damages. (See Civ. Code § 3387.) 
 
            Defendant
argues, as it did in the application for a Temporary Restraining Order, that Plaintiffs
seek to terminate the Master Lease Agreements with Defendant for the properties
that are the subject of this dispute. According to the undisputed facts and as
alleged in the operative pleadings, Plaintiffs own three multi-use buildings in
downtown Los Angeles at 600 South Spring Street, 111 West 7th Street,
and 650 South Spring Street. (FAC ¶ 1.) In April of 2022, the original owner of
the Properties entered into Purchase and Sale Agreements with Plaintiffs’
predecessor-in-interest, Laguna Point Properties, which contemplated that
Defendant 1200 Management LLC would lease the commercial component of the
Properties and pay a portion of the operating costs. (FAC ¶ 16.) Pursuant to
those agreements, Defendant entered into three long-term Master Lease
Agreements as the tenant, leasing the property from entities affiliated with
Laguna Point. (FAC ¶ 20.) In March 2023, the Properties were sold to the
Plaintiffs, who thereby became Defendant’s successor landlords. (FAC ¶¶ 21-25.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant has not paid the portion of the operating
costs for which it is responsible based on its contention that Plaintiffs have
not properly calculated those costs pursuant to the terms of the Leases. (See
generally FAC ¶¶ 35-69.) 
 
            Now,
Defendant states that Plaintiffs served Notices of Termination of Lease on
March 22, 2024, terminating the leases on May 21, 2024 on the basis that
Defendant is in breach of the Master Lease Agreements. (Declaration of Rommy
Shy ISO Ex Parte App. ¶ 13; Exhs. O-Q.) Defendant argues—forcefully—that
termination of the leases would constitute irreparable harm to Defendant and a
major deviation from the status quo ante. Plaintiffs’ opposition to the ex
parte application asserted that there is no threat of imminent irreparable
harm because the Notices have not yet expired, and the actual termination might
not happen “for several more months.” (Opposition to Ex Parte App.
p.11:6.) This argument is specious. Plaintiffs are threatening to deprive
Defendant of its rights as a tenant based on their position in the dispute that
is precisely the subject of this action. The Court therefore finds that
Defendant has demonstrated that the balance of equities is in Defendant’s
favor. Consequently, Defendant bears a lighter burden to demonstrate a
probability of success on the merits of Plaintiffs’ claims. 
 
Probability of Success on the Merits
 
            Defendant
contends that it is likely to succeed on the merits of Plaintiffs’ claims
against it. The operative First Amended Complaint asserts one cause of action
for declaratory relief and three causes of action for breach of contract—one on
behalf of each Plaintiff pursuant to the leases for the three Properties. (See
generally FAC.) 
 
            Any party
to a contract may seek a declaration of rights and duties under that
instrument. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1060.) To prevail on a claim for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must plead and prove the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and finally the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.)
 
            All four
causes of action arise from a common set of contentions, namely, that Defendant
is obligated to pay certain operating expenses for (1) taxes; (2) water; (3)
gas; (4) sewer; (5) management costs; (6) pest control; (7) maintenance costs;
(8) cleaning and painting costs; (9) security costs; (10) fire life safety
improvements; and (11) electricity. (FAC ¶¶ 39-57.) 
 
            The Parties
agree that the underlying Purchase and Sale Agreements are substantively
identical and contemplate two scenarios concerning the disposition of the
commercial spaces within the Properties. (Defendant’s Exhs. A-C § 1.4.) The PSAs
described certain zones of commercial property as “Excluded” property which was
not by default a component of the sale. (Id.) The PSAs provided that any
portion of the “Excluded Property” which was properly subdivided pursuant to governing
law would be exempt from the sale. (Id. § 1.4(a).) However, any portion
of the Excluded Property which was not subdivided would instead be
leased back to the seller, subject to the following terms:
 
In the event that at Closing some or
all of the Excluded Property relating to any individual Property has not been
legally subdivided from the balance of the Property to be conveyed to Buyer in
a manner satisfactory to Buyer, [. . . ] then at Closing, (i) the Seller shall
convey the entire Interim Lease Property (including the applicable Excluded
Property) to Buyer and (ii) Buyer and Seller shall execute a lease demising
back to the Seller the Excluded Property (an “Interim Lease”) in a form to be
agreed upon by Seller and Buyer prior to the expiration of the Due Diligence
Period. Such Interim Lease shall provide, among other things, for base
rent of $1.00/year and a term expiring on [. . .] the 100 year anniversary of
the date of the Closing Date. It is the intention of the parties that with
respect to any Interim Lease Property for which an Interim Lease is executed,
that the Seller shall at all times receive all income and bear all expenses
with respect to the Excluded Property and that the Seller shall be fully
obligated for all maintenance and repair obligations with respect to such
Excluded Property. The Interim Leases and, thereafter, the Declaration (as
defined below), shall provide that the Seller shall pay a pro rata share of
certain expenses in respect of the Real Property. The parties currently
estimate such amounts to be paid by Seller as follows: (i) 3% of the real
estate taxes and assessments for the Real Property, (ii) 2% of the total water
bill for the Real Property, (iii) 2% of total garbage removal bill for the Real
Property, (iv) 1% of total electricity bill for the Real Property and (v) 3% of
total insurance bill for the Real Property. The parties acknowledge that the
foregoing are currently estimates and that prior to the expiration of
the Due Diligence Period, Buyer shall review such estimates and discuss
possible changes with Seller. Once such amounts are actually known, likely
through supplemental tax bills or separate assessed parcels, Buyer and Seller shall
re-prorate said taxes outside of Escrow following the Closing Date when
such tax statements become available, which obligation shall survive the
Closing until the Excluded Property is separately assessed and all
re-prorations have been paid. In addition, to the foregoing expenses, the
Interim Lease and Declaration shall provide that the Seller shall pay
its pro rata share (based on the applicable net rentable square footage of the
applicable Excluded Property in comparison to the net rentable square footage
of the entire applicable Real Property) of all costs incurred in connection
with the maintenance, repair and replacement of the Building and Real Property,
including without limitation, the building's electrical grid, sewer lateral
repairs, exterior light fixtures, fire sprinkler system and pumps, fire alarm
system, water main line, cooling tower and boiler and maintenance of building
exterior facade along the commercial unit spaces and all structural repairs
that may be needed in the commercial space area. (but not any such costs
which solely affect the residential component of the Real Property).
 
(Defendant’s Exh. A. § 1.4(a) [emphasis added].) The Parties
agree that these Properties were not subdivided, and, therefore, are subject to
this provision. The Parties also agree that Defendant entered into three
substantively identical Master Leases for the Properties whose terms are
consistent with the requirements set forth in the PSAs. These leases provide
that, in addition to the Base Rent, Defendant, as the Tenant, shall pay its
applicable percentage of the annual tax and operating expenses, which are to be
calculated as described in the Lease. (E.g. Defendant’s Exh. D. §6(a).) Subsection
6(c) of the lease describes how these payments are to be calculated, as
relevant here: 
 
(i) Generally.
Tenant shall pay to Landlord the applicable percentage share of Operating
Expenses and Tax Expenses set forth on Exhibit C [of the Lease] (such share of
expenses, “Direct Expenses.”)
 
(ii) Calculation
and Payment of Additional Rent. If for any Expense Year ending or
commencing within the Term, Direct Expenses for such Expense Year exceed the
sum of the Estimated Payments, as that term is defined in Section 6(c)(iv) made
with respect to such Expense Year, then Tenant shall pay to Landlord, in the
manner set forth in Section 6(c)(iii) , below, and as Additional Rent, an
amount equal to the excess (the “Excess.”)
 
(iii) Statement
of Actual Direct Expenses and Payment by Tenant. Landlord shall endeavor to
give to Tenant following the end of each Expense Year, a statement (the
“Statement”) which shall state the Direct Expenses incurred or accrued for such
preceding Expense Year, and which shall indicate the amount of Excess, if any.
Upon receipt of the Statement for each Expense Year [. . . ] if an Excess is
present, Tenant shall pay, with its next installment of Additional Rent due,
the full amount of the Excess for such Expense Year, and if Tenant’s Estimated
Payments for such Expense Year were greater than Direct Expenses for such
Expense Year, Tenant shall receive a credit in the amount of Tenant’s
overpayment against Rent next due under this lease. The failure of Landlord to
timely furnish the statement for any Expense Year shall not prejudice Landlord
or Tenant from enforcing its rights under this Section 6. [. . .]. 
 
(iv) Statement of
Estimated Direct Expenses. In addition, Landlord shall furnish to Tenant a
yearly expense statement (the “Estimate Statement”) which shall set forth
Landlord’s reasonable estimate (the “Estimate”) of what the total amount of
Direct Expenses for the then-current Expense Year shall be. Tenant shall pay
monthly on the first day of each month an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of
such Estimate to the Landlord for such Expense Year (the “Estimated Payment”). 
 
(Defendant’s Exh. D. § 6(c).) Exhibit C of each lease
agreement sets forth the same apportionment of expenses payable by Defendant:
3% of the total tax expenses of the property (plus any taxes and assessments
levied against personal property or trade or other fixtures placed by Defendant
or any subtenant), 2% of the total water expenses, 2% of the total garbage
removal expenses, electricity expenses as submetered, 3% of the total
Landlord’s insurance expenses for the property, and all other expenses per net
rentable square feet. (E.g., Exh. D. p.36.) Any costs “which directly and
solely affect the residential component of the Real Property shall not be
Operating Expenses.” (Exh. D. p.3.) 
 
            Defendant
contends: (1) it has paid some of the outstanding expenses and can no longer be
liable for failure to pay those expenses and (2) Plaintiffs did not properly
estimate the Direct Expenses pursuant to the terms of the Master Lease
Agreements, and, consequently, Plaintiffs cannot maintain their declaratory
relief claim or their claims for breach of contract because Plaintiffs did not
perform their obligations under the Lease Agreements. 
 
            1. Property
Taxes, Water, Gas, and Sewer
 
            Defendant
contends that it has paid the full amounts claimed by Plaintiffs for property
taxes, water, and gas, and concedes that Defendant is also responsible for
sewer costs. (Supplemental Declaration of Rommy Shy ISO Injunction ¶¶ 16-17;
Exh CC.) Plaintiffs do not address this contention in their opposition and
therefore, by all appearances, concede this issue. 
 
//
            2.
Painting Expenses and Fire Life Safety 
 
            Defendant
also contends that it has paid the full amounts claimed by Plaintiffs for
painting and fire life safety expenses, even though Defendant did so under
protest that the calculations were not accurate. (Id. ¶¶ 16, 18, Exh.
CC.) Plaintiffs do not address this contention in their opposition and
therefore concede the issue. 
 
            3. Electricity
 
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs have not properly calculated the electricity costs
pursuant to the express terms of the Lease Agreements and are therefore in
breach of their obligations under the Leases. Defendant contends that
Plaintiffs’ invoices billed Defendant for 1% of the total electricity bill for
the Properties, including residential units, rather than the electricity costs
for the commercial spaces as submetered. (Defendant’s Exhs. U-V.) 
 
            In
response, Plaintiffs argue, first, that they are entitled to terminate the
leases because they have sole authority to create the Estimate Statement, and
Defendant is obligated to pay 1/12 of that estimate regardless of its accuracy.
The Court finds this interpretation unpersuasive because it is devoid of any
limiting principle. Under Plaintiffs’ proposed reading, Plaintiffs could
“estimate” expenses in any amount, no matter how large, and Defendant would be
obliged to pay 1/12 of that sum or be in breach of the contract. Such an
outcome would not only constitute manifest unfairness but would also disregard
certain express terms in the contract. Specifically, the Leases require that Plaintiffs,
as landlords, must prepare a reasonable estimate of the total amount of
Direct Expenses. (E.g. Exh. D. § 6(c)(iv).) Although the Leases provide no
definition of a “reasonable estimate,” section 6(c)(i), which defines “Direct
Expenses,” is instructive. That provision states that Direct Expenses are the
applicable percentage “set forth on Exhibit C.” (Id. § 6(c)(1).) Exhibit
C expressly states that those expenses must be apportioned “as submetered.”
(Exh. D. p.36.) Plaintiffs concede that they did not, in preparing their
estimates, apportion the electrical expenses as submetered, because Plaintiffs
contend that the sub-metering equipment is not functioning. This contention is
based entirely on inadmissible hearsay, and, even if it were true, Plaintiffs
offer no explanation for how a “reasonable estimate” includes residential units
that are expressly to be excluded by the terms of the lease. Accounting for the
lightened burden where the balance of equities weighs so strongly in
Defendant’s favor, the Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated a
likelihood of success on the merits with respect to these charges. 
 
            4.
Management Expenses
 
            Defendant
also contends that it is not responsible for the management expenses as
calculated because they include fees, taxes, benefits, and equipment for
Plaintiff’s management company. Defendant contends that Plaintiffs’ management
company exclusively manages the residential components of the Properties, and
the commercial components are already managed by Defendant at its own expense.
(Shy Supp. Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s commercial tenants have made
use of Plaintiffs’ management services for certain core maintenance issues,
such as leaks (Plaintiffs’ Exhs. 20, 22-23), broken elevators (Exhs. 21,
24-25), and upgrades to sprinkler systems (Exh. 30), citing a series of e-mail
requests for service made to Plaintiffs’ management company. Thus, Plaintiffs
argue, they are entitled to reimbursement for fees, taxes, benefits, and
equipment for these services which are provided to Defendant and its
subtenants. In response, Defendant cites to section 9(b) of the lease, which
states that the landlord shall be responsible for repairs and maintenance of, inter
alia, “the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems serving the
building generally and any cooling tower and boiler [and] the plumbing (e.g.,
water main line), sewer, drainage, electrical, and fire sprinkler system and
pumps (but not sprinkler branch lines and/or heads within the Premises), and
all other mechanical, electrical and communications systems and equipment and other
systems serving the building generally.” (E.g. Defendant’s Exh. D § 9(b).)
However, Defendant neglects that the lease expressly provides that the
Landlord’s obligations under that section are “subject to reimbursement as
provided in Section 6.” (Id.) Defendant’s assertion that these emails do
not reflect the provision of management services to Defendant or its tenants is
not well-taken. It is true that the leases dictate that maintenance of the
Properties is Plaintiffs’ responsibility, but, under those same agreements,
Plaintiffs are entitled to reimbursement for that maintenance. Defendant has
failed to demonstrate a likelihood of success with respect to this issue. 
 
            5.
Effect of Conflicting Showings
 
            As
Defendant has demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits as to certain
issues asserted in the breach of contract claims but not others, a new issue
presents itself, namely, whether a preliminary injunction lies in such a
circumstance. Neither Plaintiffs nor Defendant have contemplated this outcome
in their supplemental briefing. However, as discussed above, portions of
Defendant’s argument rest on the claim that Plaintiffs did not properly
estimate the total “Direct Expenses” which Defendant owes because select
components of that calculation were erroneous. Indeed, the Leases require that
Plaintiffs prepare “a reasonable estimate of what the total amount of
Direct Expenses for the then-current Expense Year shall be.” (Defendant’s Exh.
D. § 6(c)(iv) [emphasis added].) Plaintiffs’ preparation of that reasonable
estimate is a condition precedent to Defendant’s obligation to pay the estimate.
Thus, by demonstrating the deficiencies of Plaintiffs’ estimate, Defendant has
offered evidence tending to show that Plaintiffs breached a term which was a
condition precedent to Defendant’s performance as a whole. In such
circumstances, the party with the dependent obligation is excused from
nonperformance by the other party’s nonperformance. (Kaupke v. Lemoore Canal
& Irr. (1937) 20 Cal.App.2d 554, 557-58.) For this reason, because
Defendant has identified deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ performance of that
obligation, Defendant has demonstrated a likelihood of success under the theory
that it is excused from the obligation to pay 1/12 of Plaintiffs’ estimate. 
 
            The Court
declines to address the remainder of the disputed costs because the Court has
determined that Defendant has made a sufficient demonstration of Plaintiffs’
failure to properly perform a condition precedent under the terms of the Leases
with respect to the costs discussed above. Whether those costs are properly
assessed or not is not material where Defendant has shown that Plaintiffs
generally failed to properly perform their preceding obligations under the
Leases.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s request for a Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are enjoined and restrained from attempting to terminate Defendant’s leases for
the Subject Properties pending the final determination of this action. 
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of the three causes of action for breach of
contract in the First Amended Complaint. Although the Motion identifies these
causes of action as the first through third causes of action, they are properly
referenced as the second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
 
            On May 21,
2024, the Parties reached a stipulation setting a briefing schedule for this
motion. (May 21, 2024 Stipulation.) Pursuant to that stipulation, Plaintiff’s
motion papers were to be filed on or before June 19, 2024, opposition papers by
July 19, 2024, and reply papers by August 1, 2024. (Id.) Plaintiffs
filed their motion on June 17, 2024. However, on the date that Defendant’s
opposition was due, the Court experienced a ransomware attack which disabled
the Court’s network infrastructure, including electronic filing services. Service
was restored to full functionality on July 24, 2024. While the Court has
received Plaintiffs’ reply papers as stipulated, the opposition papers to which
that reply appears to be responding was never filed with the Court, though the
Court infers from the Reply that they were timely served on Plaintiffs. As
these missing papers appear likely to be the result of the inadvertent
disruption of the Court’s systems, the Court will continue this motion to
permit Defendant to re-file its opposition papers. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Friday, September
20, 2024 at 9:00 AM.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s
request for a Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are enjoined and restrained from attempting to terminate Defendant’s leases for
the Subject Properties pending the final determination of this action. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Friday, September 20, 2024 at
9:00 AM. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  August 8, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.