 Case Number:  23STCV25004    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 9, 2024                  TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Concepts In Time, LLC v. Capital
Logistics & Warehousing West, Inc., et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV25004            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant 22000 Opportunity Way, LP
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Concepts
in Time LLC.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/12/23: Complaint filed.
·        
09/04/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud and breach of contract. Plaintiff contracted
with Defendants for the storage of Plaintiff’s goods based on representations
that Defendants’ warehouse had adequate storage space. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants relocated the goods to the warehouse parking lot, where they were
subsequently destroyed by fire. 
 
Defendant 22000 Opportunity Way, LP
moves to strike portions of the prayer for relief in the First Amended
Complaint.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant 22000 Opportunity Way,
LP’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED with respect to the prayers for restitution,
attorney’s fees, rescission, and punitive damages and otherwise DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff
shall have 30 days leave to amend. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant 22000 Opportunity Way, LP
moves to strike portions of the prayer for relief in the First Amended
Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) “When the
defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436(b).) This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 [emphasis in original].)
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
Defendant entirely fails to address
the meet-and-confer requirement in its motion and presents no evidence that it
engaged in any effort to informally resolve this dispute. Nevertheless, the
Court will address the merits of the motion in the interest of an expeditious
resolution of this challenge to the pleadings. 
 
Timing
 
            Plaintiffs
object to this motion as untimely because it was served and filed after the
statutory period to respond to the operative pleading had expired. A motion to
strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 435 must be filed within the time
to respond to a pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).) Plaintiff’s Proof of
Personal Service, filed October 1, 2024, states that this Defendant was served
by personal service on Friday, September 27, 2024. Thus, by operation of law,
the last date for Defendant to respond as of right was Monday, October 28,
2024. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 12; 412.20.) Defendant’s motion was served the next
day, October 29, and was not filed with the Court until November 4. That said, no
default has been taken, and the single day delay in serving Plaintiff notice of
the motion appears to have caused no prejudice to Plaintiff’s ability to
respond. Further, Defendant has brought this motion under both Code of Civil
Procedure sections 435 and 436. (Notice of Motion.) This latter statute
empowers the Court, whether on its own motion or on motion of a party, to strike
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter in the pleadings. The timing of the
filing of this motion is therefore not a barrier to the Court’s consideration
of the motion on its merits.  
 
Analysis
 
Defendant 22000 Opportunity Way, LP
moves to strike portions of the prayer for relief in the First Amended
Complaint relating to restitution, attorney’s fees, rescission of contract,
prejudgment interest, and punitive damages.
 
1.     
Restitution; Attorney’s Fees, and Recission of
Contract
 
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayers for restitution, attorney’s fees, and rescission of
contract on the grounds that the First Amended Complaint does not allege that
this Defendant improperly obtained any funds, does not allege any entitlement
to attorney’s fees as to this Defendant, and does not allege a contract between
Plaintiff and this Defendant. Although the First Amended Complaint
distinguishes between the various named Defendants as to the wrongful conduct
alleged and the causes of action, Plaintiff’s prayer for relief is an omnibus
prayer seeking the same relief against all Defendants, jointly and severally. (See
FAC pp.15:13-16:1.) Plaintiff argues that such omnibus pleading is proper but
does not contest that the First Amended Complaint does not contain any
allegations which would support these requests for relief as to this Defendant.
The Court therefore finds that the prayer for restitution, attorney’s fees, and
rescission of contract should be stricken as to this Defendant only. 
 
2.     
Prejudgment Interest
 
Defendant also moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for prejudgment interest on the grounds that the First
Amended Complaint does not offer any allegations to support a claim of
prejudgment interest as to the negligence cause of action. Not so. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant is liable under a negligence theory for the loss of its
property, which it has valued at $2,500,452.16. (FAC ¶ 39.) “When value of
property can be readily ascertained, prejudgment interest is allowed for its
taking or destruction […] Prejudgment interest must be awarded as a matter of
right under section 3287, subdivision (a), in tort actions for property damages
where the value of the property destroyed can be readily calculated.” (Gourley
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 53 Cal. 3d 121, 132.) Plaintiff
has pled a satisfactory basis for prejudgment interest as to this Defendant.
 
//
 
 
3.     
Punitive Damages
Finally, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages on the grounds that Plaintiff’s sole claim against
this Defendant is negligence, and negligence ordinarily cannot support a prayer
for punitive damages. Civil Code section 3294(a),
which authorizes punitive damages, provides:
 
In an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
Civil Code § 3294(c)
defines malice, oppression and fraud:
 
(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
 
(2) ‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.
 
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ. Code § 3294(a).) Although it is true that “proof of negligence, even
gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages” (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 11 Cal.App.3d 82, 87),
that is not the end of the inquiry. As Plaintiff states in opposition,
nonintentional torts support punitive damages when the defendant’s conduct
“involves conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Gawara v.
United States Brass Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1341, 1361.) As the Court
of Appeal has stated: 
 
Under the statute, “malice
does not require actual intent to harm. [Citation.] Conscious disregard for
the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully
fails to avoid such consequences. [Citation.] Malice may be proved either
expressly through direct evidence or by implication through indirect evidence
from which the jury draws inferences. [Citation.]” (Angie M. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 [44 Cal. Rptr. 2d 197].)
 
(Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc., (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299 (bold emphasis added).)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the allegations in the First Amended Complaint are sufficient to
demonstrate a conscious disregard of the safety of others. The key allegations
of the First Amended Complaint are that the Capital Defendants—i.e., not the
moving party—improperly stored Plaintiff’s goods, alongside numerous others, in
improperly spaced pallet piles outdoors in tremendous quantity, which resulted
in a massive warehouse fire. (FAC ¶¶ 22-24.) As to this Defendant, however,
Plaintiff’s sole allegation is that, as the landlord leasing the warehouse,
Defendant failed to exercise its due diligence by discovering and remedying the
improper storage. (FAC ¶ 27.) This is not, even in the light most favorable to
Plaintiff, an allegation of a conscious disregard for the safety of others.
Plaintiff offers no allegations of Defendant’s awareness of the probable
dangerous consequences of this hazard, nor that Defendant willfully failed to
avoid those consequences. The Court therefore finds that the punitive damages
allegations are improper as to this Defendant.
 
Leave to Amend
 
             “When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
            Here, although Plaintiff
has not directly demonstrated how the First Amended Complaint might be cured,
the Court nonetheless finds that the deficiencies arise from a lack of detail
and as to how the prayers for specific relief sought might be justified against
this Defendant. The Court will therefore grant Plaintiff leave to amend.
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant 22000 Opportunity Way, LP’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED with respect
to the prayers for restitution, attorney’s fees, rescission, and punitive
damages and otherwise DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff
shall have 30 days leave to amend. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 9,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 