 Case Number:  BC550144    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 12/11/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. BC550144
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ARMAN YEGIYANTS v. HAGOP BADAKJIAN et al.
TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION TO STAY DISCOVERY


Procedural
Moving
Party: Defendants – (1) 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability
company; (2) 707 E. Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company; (3)
Commercial Funding, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company [collectively
Defendants 1-3, “Dawood Related Entities”]; (4) Jamal Dawood (Defendants 1-4
will be referred to by the Court in this motion hearing as Movants)

Responding Party 1: Cross-Defendant, Fares Abbasi
Responding Party 2: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, Arman
Yegiyants, an individual; and 10415 Commerce, LLC, a California limited
liability company
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Request for Judicial
Notice
Opposition Papers: Fares Abassi Partial Opposition;
Plaintiffs’ Limited Opposition; Plaintiffs’ Objections to Mitchell B. Ludwig
Declaration; Plaintiffs’ Proof of Service; 
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendants 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company; 707 E.
Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company; and Commercial Funding,
LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company (collectively, the “Dawood Related
Entities”); and Defendant Jamal Dawood will move the Court for:
(1) An order temporarily staying this
action and/or discovery as to Mr. Dawood pursuant to Pacers, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686 (“Pacers”) until the conclusion of
criminal proceedings brought against Mr. Dawood in Federal District Court
whether by dismissal or when criminal jeopardy sets in; and 
(2) For a protective order restricting or
limiting any inquiry into the facts relating to matters previously dismissed by
the Court pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.10 (demurrer),436 (motion to
strike), and 583.010 (Five-Year Motion), because those events are (a) no longer
relevant to this case, (b) concern matters which are not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420; Cal. Evid. Code § 350); and (c) the probative value of such matters
is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (i)
necessitate undue consumption of time or (ii) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. (Cal.
Evid. Code §352.)
Specifically, moving
party requests a Protective Order prohibiting Plaintiffs from conducting
discovery in this case relating to, inter alia, the following:
(1)   The
facts and circumstances related to or arising out of the dismissed fraudulent
transfer claims which arose out of the loans made by Hagop Bardakjian to
Hratchia Bardakjian and secured by the two properties at issue in this case,
703 E. Angeleno, LLC and 707 E. Angeleno, LLC, including whether the loans and
security were fake, fraudulent or otherwise part of a conspiracy to steal the
properties from Plaintiffs;
 
(2)   Any
of the allegations struck by the Court pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure § 436, which include 
 
a.
Whether the two loans made by Hagop Bardakjian to his brother, Hratchia
Bardakjian and secured by deeds of trust recorded against the two Burbank,
California properties, to wit: 703 E. Angeleno and 707 E. Angeleno (the
“Subject Properties”) and later sold to the two Wyoming entities was wrongful,
fraudulent or otherwise fake, 
 
b.
Whether the 2019 foreclosure sales of the Subject Properties were wrongful, and

 
c.
Any claim that Mr. Dawood or any of his related Wyoming entities conspired with
either Hratchia Bardakjian or Hagop Bardakjian to deprive anyone of their
assets (real or personal property) – whether a party to this case or not, or
specifically to deprive Plaintiffs of any right, title or interest in the
Subject Properties, including the recording of the Commercial Funding, LLC’s
deeds of trust.
This motion is based on
this notice, the attached memorandum of points and authorities, the attached
declaration of Mitchell Ludwig, the records, pleadings and files herein, the
Request for Judicial Notice filed concurrently and on such oral or documentary
evidence as may be presented at the time of the hearing on this matter.”
(Mot. p. 4-6.)


TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court will hear argument.
As per usual in this matter, counsel for all parties
present their arguments in a somewhat unclear manner by: 
(1) failing to
contextualize their arguments; 
(2) failing to explain
what complaints/cross-complaints their arguments are relevant to;
(3)
failing to explain to which causes of action in what complaint/cross-complaints
their arguments are relevant; 
(4) regularly citing to
and requesting judicial notice of documents the relevance of which the Court is
unclear, and 
(5) not being consistent
with their own language and identification of complaints/cross-complaints/matters.
By way of background, the matter before the Court
today has case number BC550144.
It appears, based on the eCourt, that there are two
related cases – (1) 22GDCV00535 and (2) 23BBCV01829.
Movants’ notice/motion notes that BC550144 is
consolidated with 23BBCV01829, but makes no mention if BC550144 is consolidated
with 22GDCV00535. Moving and opposing parties should be prepared to address if
all three cases have been consolidated or if just BC550144 and 23BBCV01829 have
been consolidated. 
Moving and opposing parties should also be prepared to
address which complaints/cross-complaints are the operative pleadings in all
three cases (BC550144, 23BBCV01829, and 22GDCV00535). The parties should also
be prepared to address, with respect to all operative
complaints/cross-complaints in each of the three cases, who are the Plaintiffs
and Defendants for each operative complaint/cross-complaint. The parties should
also be prepared to address which dates those pleadings were filed and in which
case number.
Further by way of background, the Court notes that on
2/18/2022, Plaintiffs, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce LLC, filed a verified
fourth amended complaint (FoAC).
The caption of the FoAC listed the Defendants as: 
(1) HAGOP BARDAKJIAN, an individual; 
(2) HRATCHIA BARDAKJIAN, an individual; 
(3) JOHN M. DAVID, an individual; 
(4) JAMAL N. DAWOOD aka JIM DAWOOD, an individual; 
(5) 703 E. ANGELENO, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability
company; 
(6) 707 E. ANGELENO, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability
company; 
(7) COMMERCIAL FUNDING, LLC, a Wyoming limited
liability company;  
(8) ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN, CLAIMING ANY LEGAL OR
EQUITABLE RIGHT, TITLE, ESTATE LIEN, OR INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN
THE COMPLAINT ADVERSE TO PLAINTIFFS' TITLE, OR ANY CLOUD ON PLAINTIFF'S TITLE
THERETO; and 
(9) DOES 1 through 25, inclusive.
The causes of action in the FoAC were titled as
follows in the caption of the FoAC:
(1)   To
Quiet Title as To 707 E. Angeleno
(2)   To
Set Aside and Rescind Trustee’s Sales
(3)   To
Quiet Title
(4)   For
Accounting of Foreclosure Proceeds; and 
(5)   For
Slander of Title
(FoAC filed 2/18/2022)
On 4/7/2023, this Court heard Defendant, Hratchia
Bardakjian’s, motion for summary judgment directed at Plaintiffs’ FoAC. 
The Court noted the following in the 4/7/2023 Minute
Order:
According to Defendant’s Introduction,
Plaintiffs’ (Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce LLC) only two remaining claims
against Defendant are for quiet title to 703 and 707 E. Angeleno Ave., Burbank,
CA 91501. Defendant does not state which two causes of action these are
labeled/numbered as in the FoAC. Further, in the Opposition, Plaintiffs don’t
state which two causes of action this MSJ pertains to. Therefore, the Court
will presume this applies to the first and third causes of action in the FoAC
because those are the only two causes of action in the FoAC that explicitly
mention quiet title.
(Min. Order, 4/7/2023, p.
3.)
On 4/7/2023, this Court
denied Hratchia Bardakjian’s MSJ.
On 11/17/2023, this Court
heard Plaintiffs’, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce LLC’s, MSA/MSJ directed
at the first and third causes of action in the FoAC as to Defendant Hratchia
Bardakjian.
The 11/17/2023 Minute
Order noted that Plaintiffs conceded the only two remaining causes of action in
the FoAC against Hratchia were the first and third causes of action. (See Min.
Order 11/17/2023, p. 4.)
On 11/17/2023, this Court
granted Plaintiffs’ MSA/MSJ directed at Plaintiffs’ first and third causes of
action in the FoAC as to Defendant Hratchia Bardakjian.
On 12/22/2023, this Court
granted Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend.
On 12/26/2023,
Plaintiffs, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce LLC, filed a “verified first
supplemental complaint.”
The first supplemental
complaint’s caption listed the Defendants as:
(1) HAGOP BARDAKJIAN, an
individual; 
(2) HRATCHIA BARDAKJIAN,
an individual; 
(3) JOHN M. DAVID, an
individual; 
(4) JAMAL N. DAWOOD aka
JIM DAWOOD, an individual; 
(5) 703 E. ANGELENO, LLC,
a Wyoming limited liability company; 
(6) 707 E. ANGELENO, LLC,
a Wyoming limited liability company; 
(7) COMMERCIAL FUNDING,
LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company; 
(8) ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN,
CLAIMING ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RIGHT, TITLE, ESTATE LIEN, OR INTEREST IN THE
PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THE COMPLAINT ADVERSE TO PLAINTIFFS' TITLE, OR ANY CLOUD
ON PLAINTIFF'S TITLE THERETO; and
 (9) DOES 1 through 25, inclusive.
The causes of action in
the first supplemental complaint were labeled in the caption as:
(A) Declaratory Relief;
(B) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (C) Fraud;
(D) Breach of Contract; (E) Fraud in the Inducement; and (F) Unjust
Enrichment/Restitution (Two Counts).
The declaratory relief
claim is directed at all Defendants by both Plaintiffs.
The intentional interference
with prospective economic relations claim is directed at Hagop by both
Plaintiffs.
Claim “(C)-Fraud” is
directed at Hagop by both Plaintiffs.
Claim (D)-Breach of
Contract is directed against Defendant David by Plaintiff Commerce LLC.
Claim (E)-Fraud in the
Inducement is directed against Defendant David by Plaintiff Commerce LLC.
Claim (F)-Unjust
Enrichment is directed against David by Commerce LLC.
Plaintiffs then list
another Unjust Enrichment claim in the body of the supplemental complaint
directed against “Angeleno LLCs” by both Plaintiffs.
The Court notes that a
vast majority of the supplemental complaint is confusing and regularly cites to
the Fourth Amended Complaint as if Plaintiffs can incorporate allegations in
the Fourth Amended Complaint instead of having those allegations in the
supplemental complaint. 
At the hearing,
Plaintiffs should be prepared to address why their “verified supplemental
complaint” was not properly titled as the fifth amended complaint. 
On 3/22/2024, this Court
heard Defendant Hagop’s demurrer to the supplemental complaint. 
On 3/22/2024, this Court
denied Hagop’s demurrer to the supplemental complaint. 
On 5/8/2024, Defendant,
Jamal Dawood filed a first amended Cross-Complaint against Fares Abassi for:
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Conspiracy to Commit Conversion, (3) Conspiracy to
Commit Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (4) Slander of Title,
and (5) Aiding and Abetting the Tort of Another.
On 9/6/2024, this Court
heard Fares Abassi’s demurrer with motion to strike to Jamal Dawood’s first
amended Cross-Complaint. The Court overruled the demurrer as to the first,
second, and fourth causes of action. The Court sustained with leave to amend as
to the third and fifth causes of action. 
The Court notes that a
second amended Cross-Complaint was never filed by Jamal Dawood.
On 11/1/2024, this Court
denied Plaintiffs’, Arman Yegiyants and 10415 Commerce, LLC’s motion to compel
Hagop Bardakjian to sit for a continued deposition.
The Court noted in the 10/30/2024
Minute Order on page 3 how the Plaintiffs’ and opposing parties’ papers were
less than a model of clarity.
Here, the Court notes
that all parties’ papers continue to be somewhat incomprehensible.
As seen above in the
“Relief Requested” section of this tentative, the Court notes it isn’t entirely
clear what specific relief the instant Movants are seeking.
Generally speaking,
Movants seem to be seeking “ An order temporarily staying this action and/or
discovery as to Mr. Dawood pursuant to Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686 (“Pacers”) until the conclusion of criminal
proceedings brought against Mr. Dawood in Federal District Court whether by
dismissal or when criminal jeopardy sets in.”
However, Movants also
seek protective orders related to things that Movants themselves aren’t clear
about. 
Movants will refer to
things like “when the Court struck all factual allegations from the operative
Fourth Amended Complaint relating to such matters, it determined these matters
to be ‘irrelevant, false and improper.”’ (Cal. Evid. Code § 350; Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 436 and 2025.420.).” (Mot. p. 7.)
The Court has no idea
what Movants are specifically referring to. 
Also, the Court is not
entirely clear as to why the parties cite to the Fourth Amended Complaint when,
to the Court’s understanding, the purpose of the supplemental complaint was to make
the supplemental complaint the operative complaint.
There appears to be a
general confusion about this case. For example, on page 9 of Movants’ motion,
Movants’ counsel states, “In 2014, Plaintiffs filed the initial complaint in
this matter alleging a single conspiracy cause of action. (Id. at 5, RJN Ex. 2)
He alleged that by no later than 2012, the Bardakjian Brothers engaged in
fraudulent transfers of the equity in the Subject Properties by encumbering
each property with deeds of trust securing fake loans. (Id.).” (Mot. p. 9.)
The Court notes how RJN
exhibit 2 is the first amended complaint in an Orange County Superior Court
case. 
The Movants cited to this
Orange County case in a section in their motion titled “Present Civil Matter.”
This Court is unclear how
an Orange County case with completely different parties than the ones here is
“The Present Civil Matter,” as indicated on page 9 of Movants’ motion. 
The example above is just
one example of possibly hundreds that this Court regularly runs into when it
reads papers by any of the parties in this matter. 
This case was initially
filed on 6/27/2014, and when the parties in this matter come before the Court,
they all talk at each other without providing any context as to what the extant
issues are in this matter. Not only do the parties fail to explain what the
extant issues are in this case, they regularly fail to contextualize their
arguments with respect to their motions. Therefore, when the parties submit
papers, their arguments make little sense because it often appears as if the
parties themselves are unclear as to what is going on in these cases. 
At times, it is unclear
if the parties are aware what the operative pleadings are in each case, and it
is unclear what pleadings their arguments relate to because at times the
parties refer to events that occurred over ten years ago. Further, the parties
don’t demonstrate any consistency in the manner in which they cite things. And,
unfortunately, when the Court goes back and tries to read the parties’
pleadings, to try and decipher the parties’ current motions/oppositions, those pleadings
are equally as confusing.
The Court will hear
argument from the parties because all parties’ submitted papers are,
ultimately, incomprehensible. 
 
 
 
 
 