  Case Number:  24NNCV00538    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 12/11/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 24NNCV00538
Trial Date: 04/06/2026
Case Name: ARIZBET LOPEZ PANFILO, an individual, v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC; and
DOES 1-50 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
“Plaintiff
ARIZBET LOPEZ PANFILO (“Plaintiff”) will, and hereby does, move for an order to
strike Defendant’s meritless objections and compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One Nos. 7, 10, 16, 18-21,
37 and 39 (collectively, the “Requests”).
This Motion is made pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure § 2031.310, on the grounds that Defendant has failed to provide
adequate responses to Plaintiff’s Requests, which seek documents directly
relevant to their claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
Plaintiff alleges that their 2018 Chevrolet Equinox
vehicle, which was manufactured and distributed by Defendant, suffers from
widespread defects—including the Engine Defect (“Defect”)—and that Defendant
has been unable to repair their vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant knew that the vehicle suffered from
the prevalent defects, but nevertheless refused to repurchase the vehicle when
requested—a willful violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly
Act”).
The Requests seek documents generally relating to: (1)
GM’s internal investigation and analysis of the Defects plaguing Plaintiff’s
vehicle and establishing that Defendant previously knew of such Defects but
nevertheless refused to repurchase the vehicle (Request Nos. 10, 16, 18-21);
and (2) Defendant’s Lemon Law Policies and Procedures (Request Nos. 7, 37, 39).
Notwithstanding the plain relevance of these documents to Plaintiff’s claims,
Defendant has lodged pure, boilerplate objections and utterly non-responsive
statements. Such evasive responses fail to comply with the Code of Civil
Procedure, necessitating further responses. Moreover, to date, Defendant has
failed to provide any emails or search protocol regarding ESI, in contravention
of its obligations under the Discovery Act.
In response to Defendant’s abuses of the discovery
process, Plaintiff attempted to engage in meet-and-confer efforts with
Defendant through multiple correspondences. However, Defendant refused to
engage Plaintiff in good faith.
Notably, because Defendant objected to the Requests on
the ground of undue burden but failed to identify in their objections the types
or categories of sources of electronically stored information (“ESI”) that they
assert are not reasonably accessible, as required by section 2031.210(d),
Defendant has waived any and all objections as to electronically stored
information as a matter of law. Plaintiff seeks an order striking Defendant’s
meritless objections and compelling Defendant to produce adequate further
responses and documents (including ESI, as to which Defendant has waived any
and all objections pursuant to section 2031.210(d)) within 10 calendar days of
the Court’s order.
The Motion is based upon this Notice, the following
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Separate Statement, the Declaration
of June Kim, the pleadings and papers on file herein, and upon any other
matters that may be presented to the Court at the hearing.”
(Pl. Notice, p. 1-2.)
Preliminary Procedural
Moving
Party: Plaintiff, Arizbet Lopez Panfilo
Responding Party: Defendant, General Motors LLC
16/21 Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b)): No
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300(c)): No
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Yes/No
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; June Kim Declaration;
Separate Statement; Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement;
Ryan Kay Declaration
Reply Papers: Reply; Plaintiff’s Evidentiary
Objections to Ryan Kay Declaration; Supplemental June Kim Declaration
BACKGROUND
On
03/27/2024, Plaintiff, Arizbet Lopez Panfilo, filed the instant action against
Defendant, General Motors LLC, alleging five causes of action for: (1)
Violation of Civil Code 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code 1793.2(b); (3)
Violation of Civil Code 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty
Civil Code 1791.2(a), Section 1794; and (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability Civil Code 1791.1, Section 1794.
The instant action pertains to Plaintiff’s April 29,
2018 purchase of a 2018 Chevrolet Equinox.
Plaintiff alleges that during the warranty period the
subject vehicle developed defects to the engine; electrical system; and any
additional complaints made by Plaintiff, whether or not they are contained in
the records or on any repair orders. (See Compl. ¶ 12.)
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section specifically provides that
“[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition
and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete.
  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)   An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  
 
(CCP
§ 2031.310(a).)
 
Under CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.”  
 
“In the more specific context of a
demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the trial court
to compel production must show “good cause” for the request—but unless there is
a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services
Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)

PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
45-Day Requirement
Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) 
Here, it appears as if the parties agreed to extend
the deadline to file this motion until November 15, 2024. (See Kim Decl. ¶ 26,
Ex. 15.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion meets the 45-day requirement.
Meet and Confer
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel alleged that a meet and
confer occurred. (See Kim Decl. ¶ 27, Ex. 16.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
Service
The Court first notes that neither
party pointed out the service issues that the Court noticed.
“Proof of
service of the moving papers must be filed no later than five court days before
the time appointed for the hearing.” (CRC, Rule 3.1300(c).)
Plaintiff
did not comply with CRC, Rule 3.1300(c) with respect to Plaintiff’s
Notice/Motion. Plaintiff complied with CRC, Rule 3.1300(c) with respect to the
June Kim Declaration, Separate Statement, and Proposed order; however,
Plaintiff’s Notice/Motion did not contain a proof of service. 
Further, under
CCP § 1005(b):
Unless
otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting
papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The
moving and supporting papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to
be filed with the court. However, if the notice is served by mail, the required
16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar
days if the place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of
California, 10 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the place of
address is outside the State of California but within the United States, 12
calendar days if the place of address is the Secretary of State’s address
confidentiality program (Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section 6205) of Division
7 of Title 1 of the Government Code), and 20 calendar days if either the place
of mailing or the place of address is outside the United States, and if the
notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of
delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice
before the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days. Section 1013, which
extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done,
does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers
governed by this section. All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be
filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days,
and all reply papers at least five court days before the hearing.
The
court, or a judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time.
(CCP § 1005(b).)
With respect to the Court analyzing CCP § 1005(b), the Court
first notes that it is unable to determine when Plaintiff’s Notice/Motion was
served because Plaintiff did not include a proof of service with the
Notice/Motion. 
With respect to the remaining moving papers (Kim
Declaration, Separate Statement, and Proposed Order), Plaintiff’s remaining moving
papers are untimely. 
Sixteen court days before the 12/11/2024 hearing would be Friday,
November 15, 2024. While the remaining papers were filed 16 court days
before the hearing, the remaining moving papers were not served in
accordance with CCP § 1005(b).
“[I]f the notice is served by facsimile transmission,
express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery,
the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by
two calendar days.” (CCP § 1005(b).)
Here, the remaining papers were served via electronic
transmission; therefore, Plaintiff should have added two calendar days to Friday,
November 15, 2024 to account for service. Plaintiff did not do this.
Therefore, the remaining moving papers were served two
calendar days late. The Notice/Motion did not contain a proof of service to
calculate if the Notice/Motion was timely served.
“The court,
or a judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time.” (CCP § 1005(b).)
Here, the
Court, or judge, did not prescribe a shorter time for Plaintiff to serve the
moving papers.
The Court
will hear argument as to if it can hear this motion since Plaintiff did not
comply with the notice requirements of CCP § 1005(b).
If
This Motion Is Heard
With respect to RFP 7, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied.
Under CCP §
2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” 

“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
443, 448.)
Plaintiff’s
RFP 7 requested, “The Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by YOU and
provided to YOUR authorized repair facility(s), within the state of California,
from 2017 to the present. [This request will be understood to include
production of any and all versions of such manual as distributed to YOUR
dealerships during the relevant time frame].”
Defendant’s overbroad
objection is sustained. 
Plaintiff
has the burden on this motion to establish good cause/relevancy. 
Plaintiff’s
subject vehicle is a 2018 Chevy Equinox. RFP 7 pertains to the year 2017 to the
present. Plaintiff makes no explanation/argument on good cause as to the time
frame in the request. Plaintiff makes no explanation/argument as to the scope
of the request not being related to vehicles of the same make, model, and year
of the subject vehicle (2018 Chevy Equinox). Plaintiff’s request can include non-Equinox
vehicles, and Plaintiff makes no attempt to establish good cause/relevancy as
to how broad this request is. 
Plaintiff’s motion
with respect to RFPs 37 and 39 suffer similar defects as to RFP 7.
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to RFP, Set One, numbers 7, 37, and 39 is
DENIED.
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to RFP, Set One, numbers 10, 16, 18, 19, 20,
and 21 is GRANTED. Defendant’s objections are stricken as to those responses,
and Defendant is ordered to provide code-compliant, further responses with
respect to RFPs 10, 16, 18, 19, 20, and 21.
Neither
party requested sanctions.