 Case Number:  21STCV46609    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 22, 2021, Plaintiff Patricia Durazo-Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants State of California (“State”), City of Los Angeles
(“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), and Does 1-15 for general
negligence and premises liability—negligence and dangerous condition of public
property. 
On
November 1, 2022, the County filed an answer. 
On
April 11, 2023, the clerk entered the City’s default. 
On
June 6, 2023, the City filed an answer and a cross-complaint against the State,
the County, and Roes 1-10 for apportionment of fault, indemnification, and
declaratory relief. 
On
August 4, 2023, the State filed an answer. 
On
October 9, 2023, the City filed a motion to vacate default to be heard on
December 8, 2023. On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
December 1, 2023, the City filed a reply. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The
City asks the Court to set aside the entry of default. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides
in part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
The
City asserts that it inadvertently overlooked this lawsuit due to the large caseload
handled by the General Litigation Division of the City Attorney’s Office as
well as the office’s unprecedented staffing issues. 
The City
timely filed the motion and submitted a proposed answer.  The motion establishes
that the City’s default resulted from its mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect.  The Court exercises
its discretion to grant the motion. 
The City’s
answer and cross-complaint filed June 6, 2023 are not properly before the Court
because the City was in default when it filed them.  If the City wishes to have the answer and
cross-complaint considered, it must re-file and serve these pleadings. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to vacate default filed by Defendant City of Los
Angeles.  The Court vacates the default entered on April 11, 2023.  
The
Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default for January 9, 2024, at
8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.