 Case Number:  22STCV26472    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
August 16, 2022, Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants The Lube Center, Inc., Jars Holdings, LLC, and Does 1- 100
for negligence. 
On
October 24, 2022, Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The
Lube Center, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
On
November 2, 2022, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Airdraulics, Inc. and Does 1-25 for equitable indemnity, partial equitable
indemnity, implied indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On
July 7, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to request
for production of documents, set one, and for monetary sanctions. The motion was
set for hearing on December 8, 2023. Plaintiff did not file an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 11, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
requests that the Court order Plaintiff to serve full
and complete verified responses, without objections, to the request for
production of documents and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and/or other things requested.  Defendant also requests sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
        “If a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response
to it, the following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter
4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition
to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of
the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
B.       Discovery
sanctions 
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following: 
 * * * 
“(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
March 29, 2023, Defendant served request for production of documents, set one,
on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff failed to
provide timely responses and had not provided responses by the time Defendant
filed this motion. 
The
Court grants the motion and orders Plaintiff to provide verified code-compliant
responses and to produce the documents, electronically stored information,
and/or other things requested without objections by January 8, 2024. 
Defendant
requests monetary sanctions of $1,060.00 based
on four hours of attorney’s work at a rate of $250.00 per hour and one $60.00
filing fee.  Counsel anticipated spending
two hours to draft the motion and any reply and two hours to attend the hearing
on the motion.  The motion is unopposed
and it is substantially similar to Defendant’s recently heard motions to compel
interrogatory responses. The Court awards sanctions of $560.00 based on two
hours of attorney’s work and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Jars
Holdings, LLC dba The Lube Center, Inc. to compel Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr.’s responses
to the request for production of documents, set one.  The Court orders Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr.
to
serve full and complete verified responses, without objections, to the request
for production of documents and to produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and/or other things requested by January 8, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS the request for sanctions of Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The
Lube Center, Inc. and orders Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr. and his counsel to
pay Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The Lube Center, Inc. $560 in sanctions by
January 8, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.       
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.