  Case Number:  20STCV37087    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  28           Having considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers,
the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
September 29, 2020, Plaintiff Gladis Anabella Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Time Warner NY Cable LLC, Charter Communications,
LLC, Spectrum, Gerald Rivera, Charter Communications, Inc. which will do
business in California as Charter Communications (CCI), Inc., and Does 1-100
for motor vehicle negligence, general negligence, negligence per se, and
negligent entrustment. 
On
October 20, 2020, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Jason
Lizarraga as Doe 1. 
On
November 5, 2020, Defendant Charter Communications, Inc., erroneously sued as
Charter Communications, LLC, and erroneously sued as Time Warner NY Cable LLC
(“Charter”), and Defendant Gerald Rivera (“Rivera”) filed an answer. 
On
December 1, 2020, Defendant Jason Lizarraga (“Lizarraga”) filed an answer. 
On
August 6, 2021, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Charter, Rivera, and
Lizarraga (“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”) and Roes 1-50 for equitable
indemnity, equitable contribution and declaratory relief. 
On
November 15, 2021, the City filed an answer. On November 17, 2021, the City
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Moes 1-20 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault and declaratory relief. 
On
January 25, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel. On January 31, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served the order granting
the motion on Plaintiff. 
On
April 26, 2023, the City as Cross-Defendant filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings to be heard on June 7, 2023. On May 24, 2023, Cross-Complainants
filed an opposition. On May 31, 2023, the City filed a reply. The Court
continued the hearing on this motion to December 8, 2023. 
On
June 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney substituting new
counsel into the case. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 22, 2024.  
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The City requests that the Court grant its motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave
to amend. 
 Cross-Complainants request
that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part: 
“(a) As used in this section: 
“(1) “Complaint” includes a cross-complaint. 
“(2) “Plaintiff” includes a cross-complainant. 
“(3) “Defendant” includes a cross-defendant. 
“(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * * 
“(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
* * * 
“(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either
of the following conditions exist: 
“(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint. 
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. 
“(2) The motion provided for in this section may be
made as to either of the following: 
“(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to
any of the causes of action stated therein. 
* * * 
“(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit. 
* * * 
“(h) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the
case may be. 
“(2) Where a motion is granted pursuant to this
section with leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,
then the court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was
granted to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be. 
“(3) If the motion is granted with respect to the
entire complaint or answer without leave to file an amended complaint or
answer, as the case may be, then judgment shall be entered forthwith in
accordance with the motion granting judgment to the moving party. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (a), (b), (c), (d), (h).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. [Citations.]’
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential Community, L.P. v.
Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th
265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true all properly
pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially noticed matters.
[Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern California Investors, Inc. (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings “normally lies only for defects fully
disclosed on the face of the pleading under attack or by matters of which
judicial notice may be taken. 
Declarations or other extrinsic matters are improper.  Therefore, the judge hearing the motion
cannot consider discovery admissions or other evidence controverting the
pleadings.  Rather, the pleading under
attack must be accepted as true.”  (L.
Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter
2023) ¶ 7:320, pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96.) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
The
Court grants the City’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
The
City asks the Court to grant judgment on the pleadings because Cross-Complainants
did not comply with the claims presentation requirement of the California Tort
Claims Act. 
On
March 1, 2022, the Court denied the City’s previous motion for judgment on the
pleadings, ruling that the Cross-Complainants’ claims against the City did not
accrue until August 6, 2021.  As a
result, Cross-Complainants had six months from August 6, 2021 to comply with
the claims presentation requirement. 
Although that deadline had passed, the Court explained, Cross-Complainants
could still request leave to file a late claim under Government Code section
911.4. 
On
July 29, 2022, Cross-Complainants served an application for leave to file a
late claim on the City.  On August 5,
2022 (or August 10, 2022, according to Cross-Complainants), the City denied the
application. 
The
City argues that, under Government Code section 946.6, Cross-Complainants’ only
recourse from the City’s denial was to file a petition with the superior court
for leave to file a late claim within six months.[1]  This deadline expired in February 2023.  Cross-Complainants did not file a petition by
the deadline. 
In
response, Cross-Complainants argue that Government Code section 946.6 does not
bar their claims because it states only that a petition “may” be made to the court. Cross-Complainants argue that the statute is “nothing more than a
mechanism for parties to formally bring a lawsuit when one is not already
pending before the proper Court” and does not apply where, as here, a lawsuit is already pending.  
(Opposition p. 4.)  Cross-Complainants
cite no statutory or case authority to support their argument. 
Cross-Complainants
also argue the City waived its objections under Government Code section 946.4 by
not asserting the provision in its answer to the cross-complaint.  The City's answer asserted that Cross-Defendants “fail[ed] to comply
with the provisions of the California Tort Claims Act, Government Code § 910 et
seq.”  (Answer, Fifth Affirmative
Defense.) 
The
Court grants the motion for judgment on the pleadings because Cross-Complainants did not comply with the claims presentation requirement of the California Tort Claims Act. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant City of Los Angeles’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings without leave to amend.  
The
Court enters judgment for Cross-Complainant City of Los Angeles on the
cross-complaint filed by Cross-Complainants Charter
Communications, Inc. (erroneously sued as Charter Communications, LLC, and
erroneously sued as Time Warner NY Cable LLC), Defendant Gerald Rivera, and
Jason Lizarraga. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


