 Case Number:  22STCV13691    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  28 


Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
  as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On April 25, 2022, Plaintiff Tatianna Faith Dunmore
  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Mark Edward Switzer
  (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, Tae Kim and
  Wilshire Law Firm, PLC, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel to be heard
  on December 8, 2023. 
No trial date is currently scheduled. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Tae Kim and Wilshire Law Firm,
  PLC, request to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed
  to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
  form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising
  the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under
  Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent
  under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in
  Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
  service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order
  on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
  proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
  to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw.  The motion should be granted if there is no
  prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.
  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel did not file proof of service on Plaintiff.  Although counsel indicates that Plaintiff has been served, proof of service
  is required. 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES without prejudice the motion of
  Plaintiffs’ counsel Tae Kim and Wilshire Law Firm, PLC, to be relieved as
  counsel for Plaintiff Tatianna Faith Dunmore. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of
  this ruling with the Court within five days.




 