 Case Number:  22STCV29253    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EBONY ELAINE MOSS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PROPERTY I.D. CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29253
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 25, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Plaintiff Ebony Elaine Moss (“Plaintiff”) moves, in three
separate motions for orders compelling Defendant All California Title and
Escrow Company (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories (“FROG”), Set Four; Special Interrogatories (“SROG”), Set Five;
and Requests for Production of Documents (“RFP”), Set Four
 
Plaintiff also seeks over $18,000 ($6,600 per motion) in
sanctions against Defendant and its attorneys.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motions.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 8, 2022 against
Defendant, her former employer, alleging (1) discrimination under FEHA; (2)
retaliation under FEHA; (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; and (4) wrongful termination.
 
On October 26, 2023, Defendant answered and filed a
Cross-Complaint, raising cross-claims for (1) breach of fiduciary duty of
loyalty; and (2) violation of Comprehensive Computer Data and Access Fraud Act.
 
Plaintiff served the discovery requests at issue on
Defendant on February 21, 2024. The parties met and conferred from March 14,
2024 to March 27, 2024.
 
Plaintiff filed the instant motions on April 2, 2024.
Defendant filed oppositions to each. Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a
declaration in reply to the oppositions.
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Requests for Admission
 
On
receipt of a response to requests for admission the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
an objection to an RFA is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a)(2).)       
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply:
(1) An answer to a
particular request is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An objection to
a particular request is without merit or too             general.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290.)
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(d).)          
            
Interrogatories
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.
 
Discussion
 
Meet and Confer
 
The discovery in this case has been voluminous. To date, Plaintiff
has served a total of 35 sets of written discovery requests on Defendants,
including 198 separate document requests, 425 requests for admission, and 169
special interrogatories. Defendant has also propounded a relatively large amount
of written discovery on Plaintiff.
 
After receiving the current set of requests at issue,
Defendant’s counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss a
proposed schedule under which Defendant could respond to the requests.
Plaintiff’s counsel requested that Defendant propose a schedule for the
responses, but refused the schedule that Defendant’s counsel proposed and did
not propose an alternative schedule.
 
On March 26, 2024, Defendant served its initial responses,
which included only objections. Counsel for Defendant states that this was for
the purpose of preserving Defendant’s objections.
 
Before 10:00 a.m. on March 27, 2024, Defendant’s counsel
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Defendant was preparing supplemental
responses which it would serve in the following few days. Defendant’s counsel
again asked to discuss a schedule for Defendant’s responses, but Plaintiff’s
counsel did not respond to the email.
 
Plaintiff then filed the motions to compel on April 2, 2024.
Later that day, Defendant’s counsel reiterated that Plaintiff would receive
supplemental responses very soon and asked that the motions be taken off
calendar.
 
The next day, April 3, 2024, Defendant served supplemental
responses to RFP Set 5, SROG Set 5, and FROG Set 5. FROG Set 5 is not at issue
in this motion, but the interrogatories were identical to those in FROG Set 4,
which Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed were withdrawn once Plaintiff propounded
Set 5. (Corpuz Decl. ¶ 17, Ex. 16.)
 
Given the volume of written discovery in this case,
Plaintiff’s counsel had an obligation to meet and confer in good faith, which
in this case included engaging in good faith over the question of a schedule
for Defendant’s responses. Plaintiff’s counsel did not do so, but instead
points to the large number of attorneys at the firm representing Defendant in
order to justify his refusal to allow an extension. Furthermore, Defendant’s
service of supplemental responses indicates, under these facts that Defendant’s
repeated offers to supplement if given more time were made in good faith.
 
The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff failed to adequately
meet and confer before bringing this motion. 
Moreover, the motion is now moot as Defendant has served responses. 
 
Sanctions
 
            The
Court finds that Defendant’s opposition was substantially justified by
Plaintiff’s failure to adequately meet and confer. The Court has also denied
the motion.  The Court therefore does not
award sanctions.