 Case Number:  24STCV04323    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JASTON ARCHIE, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
TRACFONE WIRELESS, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV04323
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 25, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant Tracfone Wireless Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to set
aside the default entered against it on March 27, 2024.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion and vacates the
default.  Defendant shall respond to the
First Amended Complaint within 10 days.
 
Background
 
This case concerns the alleged theft of the debit card
information, money, and other private information of Plaintiff Jaston Archie’s
(“Plaintiff”) when he called Defendant Tracfone to activate a cellular phone.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on February 21, 2024.
 
Default was entered against Defendant on March 27, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
Permissive Relief Under Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b) 
 
The trial court has discretion to “relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)  Such an application shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed in replacement of the
pleading being set aside and shall be made within six months after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or other pleading for which dismissal is being
sought. (Ibid.) 
 
Mandatory Relief under Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b) 
 
Where a defendant in default moves for relief from default,
judgment, or other dismissal against them entered as the result of her
attorney’s mistake and “no more than six months” have passed since the entry of
judgment, the court shall grant such relief as is requested, provided
the motion satisfies all procedural requirements and the court does not find
that the entry of default was caused by something other than the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
retained Yu Mohandesi LLP in connection with this action. Counsel for Defendant
believes that this action is subject to an arbitration agreement and prepared
an arbitration motion. However, due to attorney error, the deadline to respond
to the complaint was not entered on counsel’s calendar, and the arbitration
motion was not timely filed. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.) 
 
            Where
an attorney affidavit of fault is filed, there is no requirement that the
neglect be excusable. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).) Here, Kristel Robinson has
filed an affidavit of fault. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant should not be relieved from default because his claims
are not arbitrable. That may be the case, but even an incorrect motion to
compel arbitration can take the place of an answer for the purpose of avoiding
default. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.7.) The question at issue here is not whether
arbitration is appropriate, but whether Defendant should be relieved from default.
The timely filing of the arbitration motion would, as a matter of law, have
prevented default.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant defaulted for the improper purpose of increasing
Plaintiff’s litigation costs but provides no evidence of this claim.
 
            The
Court therefore grants Defendant’s motion to set aside default.