 Case Number:  22STCV29610    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HEATHER ALTEPETER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ASH PATEL, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29610
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 25, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff Heather Altepeter (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
compelling Defendant Commercial Bank of California (“CBC”) to provide
supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set one and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
Plaintiff also seeks $4,215 in sanctions against CMC and its
attorneys.  CBC in its opposition seeks
sanctions in the amount of $16,940.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion in part. CBC shall only
be required to respond as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals. CBC shall redact confidential information of employees.
 
The Court DENIES both Plaintiff’s and CBC’s respective requests
for sanctions.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff is the owner and CEO of National Merchants
Association, Inc. (“NMA”). NMA provides electronic payment processing services
to businesses. CBC served as NMA’s sponsor bank. Plaintiff contends that CBC
treated her and NMA disparately relative to similarly situated independent
sales organizations in the industry because of her gender.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 29, 2022. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint, which raises claims for (1)
unfair business practices; (2) intentional interference with prospective
economic relations; (3) negligent interference with prospective economic
relations; (4) intentional interference with contractual relations; (5)
inducing breach of contract; and (6) negligence.
 
The discovery at issue was propounded in November 2022.
After a lengthy meet and confer process, Plaintiff filed this motion on
February 21, 2022. CBC filed an opposition. Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)  
            
Interrogatories
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.
 
Discussion
 
Timeliness
 
Defendant provides evidence that this motion is not timely.
Defendant contends that CBC agreed to a discovery extension up to February 16,
2024, but refused Plaintiff’s request for an extension beyond that time.
(Kananen Decl. ¶ 3.) This motion was filed on February 21, 2024. The Court is
willing to consider this issue at the hearing, but in the absence of exhibits
showing the parties’ communications, the Court is hesitant to deny the motion
on timeliness grounds.
 
General Discussion of the Parties’ Relevancy and Privacy Arguments
 
In general, the Court agrees with CBC that there has been no
showing on this record that internal information or documents relating to CBC’s
discrimination policies relating to its own employees is relevant to this
case.  This is not a case relating to
employment discrimination.  Moreover,
there are privacy concerns at issue relating to CBC’s own employees.
 
Special Interrogatories
 
Special Interrogatory No. 1: CBC shall only be
required to answer as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 2: CBC shall only be
required to answer as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 3: CBC shall only be
required to answer as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 4: CBC shall only be
required to answer as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 5: CBC shall only be
required to answer as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 6: CBC shall only be
required to answer as to discrimination against external organizations or
individuals.
 
Requests for Production
 
Request for Production No. 1: CBC shall produce
responsive documents but shall redact confidential information of employees.
 
Request for Production No. 2: CBC shall only be
required to provide documents as to discrimination against external
organizations or individuals.
 
Request for Production No. 3: CBC shall only be
required to provide documents as to discrimination against external
organizations or individuals. CBC shall redact confidential information of
employees.
 
Sanctions
 
            The
Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions.
 
The Court finds that CBC’s opposition was substantially
justified by both the privacy concerns for CBC’s employees, and by Plaintiff’s
efforts to obtain responses related to employment discrimination, which is not
relevant to this case. Moreover, the Court has denied the motion in substantial
part.  The Court therefore does not award
sanctions to Plaintiff.
 
Further, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s arguments for
broader discovery, though not successful or meritorious, was substantially
justified.  The Court understands and
respects Plaintiff’s arguments. 
Accordingly, the Court denies CBC’s request for sanctions.