  Case Number:  21STCV42732    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  39 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


August
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV42732




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendants
  Sterling Jewelers, Inc. and Signet Jewelers Limited




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Jessica Parker



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Jessica
Parker (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Sterling Jewelers, Inc. and Signet
Jewelers Limited (“Defendants”) for sex discrimination and sexual harassment.  Defendants move for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s operative complaint, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
of the causes of action therein.  Plaintiff
opposes the motion.  
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. . . . There is a triable issue
of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier
of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion
in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
            Plaintiff
objects specifically to several of Defendants’ separate statements of material
facts.  The separate statement is not
evidence.  As such, the Court cannot rule
on evidentiary objections to it.
Defendants’
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence Nos. 14, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, and 25 are
sustained.  Defendants’ other evidentiary
objections are overruled.
Defendants advance additional evidence in
connection with its reply papers.  The
Court cannot consider such evidence, as Plaintiff has not had an opportunity to
respond to it.  (San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
308, 316.)  The Court, therefore,
disregards the evidence Defendants advance in reply.  Further, Oon August 9, 2020, Defendant filed
a pleading entitled “Responses to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed
and Additional Material Facts in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition,” to which Plaintiff
has objected and moved to strike.  The
Court sustains the objection and will not consider that pleading.
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Discrimination
            Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for discrimination and retaliation under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA).  To
state such a claim, the employee must demonstrate “(1) the employee's
membership in a classification protected by the statute; (2) discriminatory
animus on the part of the employer toward members of that classification; (3)
an action by the employer adverse to the employee's interests; (4) a causal
link between the discriminatory animus and the adverse action; (5) damage to
the employee; and (6) a causal link between the adverse action and the
damage.”  (Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts,
Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.) 
“A defending employer seeking summary judgment in a discrimination case
may meet its burden by showing that one or more of these prima facie elements
is lacking, or that the adverse employment action was based on legitimate
nondiscriminatory factors.  [¶]  If the employer has met its burden by showing
a legitimate reason for its conduct, the employee must demonstrate a triable
issue by producing substantial evidence that the employer's stated reasons were
untrue or pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus,
such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged
in intentional discrimination or other unlawful action.”  (Cucuzza v. City of Santa Clara (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038, internal citation omitted.)  An employer is likewise not liable for
discrimination “if the employer proves it would have fired the employee anyway
for lawful reasons.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 234.)
Defendants advance
the testimony of their district manager, Cody Bingham (“Bingham”).  Bingham testified Defendants laid off
Plaintiff and other employees in 2020 based on “[q]uality of work, billing, and
productivity, coming to work on time, and [being] part of the team . . . .”
(Declaration of Thomas N. McCormick attached to Defendant’s Compendium of
Evidence, Exhibit 3, p. 111.)  Defendants
advance additional evidence Plaintiff had issues with tardiness.  (Id., Exhibit 1, p. 106.)  
Defendants also present
the testimony of Plaintiff’s co-worker, Tracey Beresford (“Beresford”) who testified
work was available to Plaintiff, but Plaintiff was not performing at the
expected level and, therefore, she could not complete that work.  (McCormick Decl., Exhibit 4, pp.
124-126.)  
Taken together,
Defendants’ evidence indicates Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment for
non-discriminatory reasons.  Defendants have
met their burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her cause of action for
discrimination.  Thus, the burden has
shifted to  Plaintiff to raise triable
issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on her discrimination
claim.
Plaintiff presents
evidence of her performance reviews for the period of February 3, 2019 to
February 1, 2020 which reveal Plaintiff achieved the expected results for her
role.  (Declaration of Afshin Mozaffari,
Exhibit 1.)  Plaintiff also provides multiple
e-mails addressed to Bingham from Plaintiff’s manager, Anthony Nouneh
(“Nouneh”), in which Nouneh requested that Plaintiff be promoted, and an e-mail
from Bingham, in which Bingham approved the promotion.  (Id., Exhibits 3-5.)  However, when Defendants terminated
Plaintiff’s employment, Defendants’ record reflects Defendants never promoted
Plaintiff.  (Id., Exhibit
29.)  Plaintiff also advances evidence the
number of employees in California with Plaintiff’s classification increased,
rather than decreased, in 2020.  (Id.,
Exhibit 46.)  Plaintiff also cites
Bingham’s testimony in which Bingham acknowledged positions opened for jewelers
at other locations, but Defendants did not offer those positions to
Plaintiff.  (Id., Exhibit 51, pp.
101-102.)  Moreover, Plaintiff presents
the testimony of Defendants’ person most qualified to testify on specified
issues, who stated Defendants always have open jeweler positions.  (Id., Exhibit 52, p. 105.)  The totality of the evidence Plaintiff has
presented suggests Defendants’ stated reasons for terminating Plaintiff’s
employment were untrue.  Plaintiff,
therefore, has raised triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff
can prevail on her claim for discrimination. 

Second Cause of Action: Sexual Harassment
            Under
FEHA, an employer is strictly liable for a supervisor’s harassment of a
subordinate.  (State Dept. of Health
Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1042.)  For purposes of FEHA, a supervisor is defined
as “any individual having the authority, in the interest of the employer, to hire,
transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or
discipline other employees, or the responsibility to direct them, or to adjust
their grievances, or effectively to recommend that action, if, in connection
with the foregoing, the exercise of that authority is not of a merely routine
or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (t).)  A lead worker who has responsibility to
direct an employee's day-to-day duties may be a supervisor under FEHA.  (Chapman v. Enos (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
920, 930-931.)
At her deposition,
Plaintiff testified her supervisor “pressured [Plaintiff] to do more of those
low end jobs.”  (Mozaffari Decl., Exhibit
50, p. 234.)  Plaintiff testified her
co-worker, Josh Alvarez (“Alvarez”) told Plaintiff she could work on the high-value
jobs Plaintiff wanted in exchange for sexual favors, but when she refused his
offer, Alvarez assigned the high-value jobs to other coworkers.  (Id., Exhibit 50, pp. 246-248.)  Plaintiff testified she reported Alvarez’s
harassment to her supervisor and to Defendants’ human resources departments,
and Defendants investigated her report, including by interviewing
Plaintiff.  (McCormick Decl., Exhibit 1,
pp. 259-260.)  Plaintiff’s testimony
constitutes evidence of sexual harassment. 
However, Defendants contend Alvarez was not a supervisor.
Defendants submit
the declaration of Brian Watson (“Watson”), a human resources employee for
Defendants, who avers Alvarez’s duties for Defendants “were customer facing,
largely clerical, and including serving as a backup to the sales personnel . .
. .”  (Declaration of Brian Watson
(Exhibit B in Compendium of Evidence), ¶ 9; see also Declaration of Cody
Bingham Exhibit C in Compendium), ¶ 5.) 
Defendants’ evidence meets their burden to show Defendants are not
strictly liable for Alvarez’s sexual harassment of Plaintiff because Alvarez
was not a supervisor.
Under FEHA,
Defendants are not liable for Alvarez’s harassment if Alvarez was not a
supervisor unless Defendants “[knew] or should have known of this conduct and
fail[ed] to take immediate and appropriate corrective action.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1)).  Again, Defendants rely on Watson’s
declaration in this regard.  Watson
states Defendants “strictly prohibit[] unlawful discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation of any kind and ha[ve] strict policies, a rigorous training
program, and a team of HR professional to enforce such policies.  The Company maintains a handbook for employees
that highlight these protections and it also publishes a stand-alone Equal
Employment Opportunity . . . policy that covers its full commitment to
maintaining a workplace free of harassment and discrimination, and ensuring no
retaliation occurs for any protected activity.” 
(Watson Decl., ¶ 11.)  Watson
states Defendants investigated Plaintiff’s claim that Avarez harassed Plaintiff
when she reported the behavior to her supervisor on December 30, 2019;
Defendants’ investigation substantiated Plaintiff’s claim; and Defendants
terminated Plaintiff effective January 11, 2020.  (Id., ¶¶ 18-20.)  This evidence meets Defendants’ burden to
show Defendants are not liable for Alvarez’s harassment of Plaintiff, because
Defendants promptly addressed Alvarez’s harassment when Plaintiff reported
it.  Defendants, therefore, shift the
burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendants
are liable to Plaintiff for such harassment.
In opposition,
Plaintiff advances her own testimony. 
Plaintiff states Alvarez was the repair liaison at the location where
Plaintiff and Alvarez worked, and Alvarez assigned work to the jewelers that
came to their work location from the adjacent retail store.  (Declaration of Jessica Parker in Support of
Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication, ¶ 14.)  Plaintiff adds
in Defendants’ interview of Alvarez regarding the allegations of his harassment
of Plaintiff, Alvarez discussed his decisions to assign work to Plaintiff.  (Mozaffari Decl., Exhibit 9.)  Moreover, at his deposition, Alvarez confirmed
he assigned work to the jewelers as the work came into the repair shop; he used
his independent judgment in deciding what job to give to which jeweler; and his
supervisors left it up to his discretion. 
(Id., Exhibit 54.)  This
evidence raises triable issues of fact to be determined by the trier of fact as
to whether Alvarez worked in a supervisory role for Defendants and, at a
minimum, whether Defendants knew or should have known Alvarez made decisions
concerning to whom work was to be assigned, such that Defendants are strictly
liable for his harassment of Plaintiff.
Third Cause of Action: Retaliation
To prevail on a claim for retaliation,
Plaintiff must establish “by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation
for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested
employment action.  . . .  Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.”  (Lawson v. PPG
Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)  In her operative complaint, Plaintiff
alleges she complained to Defendants about discrimination and harassment based
on sex, and Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff by terminating Plaintiff’s
employment.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 41-42.)  As set forth above, Defendants advance
evidence Defendants’ terminated Plaintiff for unrelated reasons.  This evidence meets Defendants’ burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her third cause of action for
retaliation.  Defendants shift the burden
to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff
can prevail on her third cause of action for retaliation.  Plaintiff again advances evidence to suggest
Defendants’ stated reasons for terminating Plaintiff’s employment were
untrue.  In addition, Plaintiff Plaintiff,
therefore, has  raised triable issues of
material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on her third cause of action
for retaliation.  
Fourth Cause of Action: Failure
to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment
            This
claim is derivative of Plaintiff’s claims in the first and second causes of
action. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges her complaints were met with
hostility by Defendants and Defendants’ investigation of her claims were
inadequate.  As such, Plaintiff has met
her burden with respect to this cause of action.  
Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action:
Retaliation
Plaintiff’s fifth and sixth causes of action are
for retaliation under Labor Code sections 1102.5 and 6310.  To state a cause of action under section
1102.5, Plaintiff must identify “some statute, rule or regulation which may
have been violated by the conduct [s]he disclosed.”  (Ross v. County of Riverside (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 580, 592, internal quotations and citation omitted.) Section 6310 prohibits
an employer from retaliating against an employee who has made complaints
regarding employment safety or health or refused to work in an unsafe and
unhealthy work environment.  
In the operative complaint, Plaintiff
alleges, she “protested and complained to Defendants about what she reasonably
believed to be various illegal, hazardous, unsafe, and unhealthy work
conditions, including the lack of ventilation in the shop where Plaintiff
worked, which caused jewelers to have to breathe in dust, chemicals, and other
toxic particulates; the illegal and/or unsafe handling and disposal of
hazardous waste; and the lack of masks available to protect employees from
breathing in dust, chemicals and other toxic particulates and from the spread of
COVID-19 later in early 2020.”  (Complaint,
¶ 56.)  As set forth above, Defendants
advance evidence Plaintiff was  terminated for unrelated reasons.  This evidence meets Defendants’ burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her fifth cause of action for
retaliation.  Defendants, therefore, have
shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact concerning
her retaliation claim.
Plaintiff contends
that on March 20, 2020, she told Bingham her workplace lacked ventilation and
masks, which made Plaintiff feel unsafe, and this was her last day of work
before the shutdown due to COVID-19.  (Parker
Decl., ¶ 19.)  As set forth above,
Plaintiff also advances evidence that suggests Defendants’ stated reasons for
terminating Plaintiff’s employment were untrue. 
Plaintiff has sufficiently raised triable issues of material fact as to
whether she can prevail on her fifth cause of action for retaliation.  
Seventh Cause of Action: 
Retaliation and Wrongful Termination in Violation of Fundamental Public
Policy
            As
this claim is essentially derivative of those that precede it, Plaintiff has satisfied
her burden of establishing triable issue of material fact exists concerning
Defendant’s alleged violation of public policy and the statutory provisions on
which her claims are based.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
in the alternative, summary adjudication, is denied.
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.