 Case Number:  22CHCV00734    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49 
Date: 12-12-23
c/f 9-12-23
Case
# 22CHCV00734  
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
SUPPLEMENTAL HEARING ON BOND FOR VEXATIOUS
LITIGANT ORDER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Nasch Properties, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Ashlie Anderson, Pro Per 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
Supplemental
Briefing for Determination of Bond Amount on Vexatious Litigant Order as to
Ashely Anderson
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION 
Plaintiffs Michael
Perry and Ashley Anderson reside in an apartment building owned and/or managed
by Defendant Nasch Properties, LLC. The assigned property manager on the
premises is identified as defendant Charly Taylor. 
 
On May 7, 2022,
Anderson alleges a co-tenant in the building, defendant Stanley Nathanson,
committed a sexual assault and attempted within the apartment building laundry
room common area. Plaintiffs submitted a complaint with property manager Taylor,
but allege defendant landlords refused to conduct any independent investigation
and/or seek eviction of Nathanson. Instead, on August 17, 2022, Plaintiffs were
served with a three day notice to quit. Plaintiffs additionally allege the
interruption of “essential services,” such as hot water. 
 
On September 7,
2022, Plaintiffs, in pro per, filed their complaint for “stay of unlawful
detainer, restitution, civil penalties, preliminary and permanent injunction,
and other equitable relief Business & Professions Code [section] 17200.”
The 18 individual causes of action are listed as Sexual Harassment in Violation
of California Civil Code section 51.9; Sexual Assault and Harassment … in
Violation of California Civil Code section 51.9; Color, Race and Sex-Based
Discrimination Based on Status as Sexual Assault Victim; Violation of RALPH Act
California Civil Code section 51.7; Interference with Exercise of Civil Rights
in Violation of Bane Act, California Civil Code section 52.1, Retaliation;
Discrimination prohibited by the 14th Amendment; Breach of Duty to
Protect Tenants from Foreseeable Crimes; Strict Liability under Special
Relationship Doctrine; Gender Violence; Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; Negligence and Failure to Disclose Tenants Criminal Propensities; Negligent
Refusal of Landlord to Investigate and Screen Prospective Tenants; Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; Unfair Competition under Business and
Professions Code section 17200; Defamation; Breach of Contract; and, Claim for
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief.
 
On October 24,
2022, the court denied the ex parte application to stay the pending unlawful
detainer case in Department 44. The court also denied the ex parte order for a
restraining order.
 
On January 26,
2023, the court granted the motion to dismiss Michel Perry from the lawsuit,
due to the failure to obtain leave to file the subject complaint as a
designated vexatious litigant. The court also sustained the demurrer of Nasch
Properties, LLC with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs filed a
notice of appeal on the order dismissing Perry on February 8, 2023.
 
The first amended
complaint was late filed on March 20, 2023. 
 
RULING: Granted.
On August 17, 2023, the court
found plaintiff Anderson a vexatious litigant and ordered the posting of a
security reflective of the potential damages to defendants if the action
continues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.3, subd.
(a); Muller v. Tanner (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d 445, 452 [“the amount of the security
is defined as the moving party's ‘reasonable expenses, including attorney's
fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred in, or in connection with’ the
litigation”].) The court requested supplemental briefing in order to determine
the amount of fees and costs in order to determine the undertaking amount due.
 
On August 18, 2023, both Perry and
Anderson filed a notice of appeal with a requested “notice of stay” on the
August 17, 2023, motion for attorney fees against Perry and the motion to deem
Anderson a vexatious litigant. The “perfecting” of an
appeal imposes an automatic stay on the case on “matters embraced therein…but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 916, subd. (a).) 
 
The motion for attorney as to
Perry in no way embraces the subject matter of the vexatious litigant order
exclusively applicable to Anderson. As to Anderson, the appeal itself
challenges the order designating Anderson a vexatious litigant and setting the
hearing for bond amount determination. Given both the bond remains integral to
the actual order deeming Anderson a vexatious litigant, and the bond amount
remains the only determination for the court to conclude the hearing on the
vexatious litigant hearing, the court finds the subject supplemental briefing
and hearing in no way alters the fundamental basis of the appeal itself—the
vexatious litigant order—and in fact remains integral to the appeal. (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 189; Henry M. Lee Law Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 1375, 1383-1384.) 
 
Nevertheless, on September 5,
2023, Anderson filed a notice of unavailability based on the prior
hospitalization in July 2023. The notice provided NO NEW information or updates
and appeared as an updated copy of the prior notice relied upon by Anderson.
The notice also came after Anderson in fact submitted a substantial opposition
to the motion seeking to deem Plaintiff a vexatious litigant, which was filed
after the hospitalization stay period. 
 
The court acknowledged the prior
notice of unavailability as well: “Anderson holds a
right to appear for oral argument, and the court presumes Anderson in no way
intends to waive the right to participate in oral argument. (Moles v. Regents of University of California (1982) 32 Cal.3d 867, 871.) Given the filing of the
opposition, and the lack of any updated information on Anderson’s medical
condition regarding impacts to an appearance, including video conference,
however, the court finds Anderson maintains the ability to appear and therefore
proceeds with the hearing. (Cal. Rules Ct, rule 3.1304(d).)” In an abundance of
caution, the court continued the hearing to December 12, 2023, with
instructions requiring updated information regarding specific medically
documented information either regarding the continuing inability to appear, or
an expectation for an appearance. 
 
Anderson submitted no request or
justified support for any further continuances. The court therefore finds no
basis for any additional unsupported, open ended continuances based on prior
opposition and selective use of notice without any follow-up factual support.
The court proceeds with the hearing. 
 
Defendants supplemental brief
represent incurring $36,986 in attorney fees defending the action as to
Anderson only. Counsel specifically distinguishes fees between Anderson and
Perry. [Declaration of Alexandra Iman.] The court finds the amount reasonable
for purposes of determining the bond amount regardless of any potential further
review in a motion for attorney fees given the extensive history of the action
both before and after the dismissal of co-plaintiff Perry. The court therefore
accepts the unopposed declaration, and sets the bond amount for $37,000.
 
Upon entry of the bond amount, the vexatious
litigant has 30 days to comply with the order. Failure to comply with the
undertaking order can lead to dismissal of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
391.4.) Nevertheless, the court finds the notice of appeal on the order
designating Anderson a vexatious litigant stays enforcement of the order
pending appeal. (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino, supra, 35 Cal.4th 189.) On November 28, 2023, the Court
of Appeal set a 10-day response window for the order designating Anderson a
vexatious litigant. 
 
Given the extensive history of
defaults and subsequent dismissals of the Anderson and Perry filed appeals, the
court will set an OSC re: Status of the Appeal for 90 days from the date of
this hearing. The parties may update the court as to the presentation of any
such brief. Upon any notice of dismissal of the appeal documented by the court
in a minute order, the subject order requiring the posting of the $37,000 bond
within 30 days will immediately go into effect. At the time of any order
requiring bond, the court will also set a follow-up hearing regarding the
posting of the bond and dismissal of the entire action for non-compliance. 
 
The motion deeming Anderson a vexatious litigant otherwise
remains in place pending the appeal barring a reversal by the Appellate
Division. “In addition to any other relief provided in this title, the court
may, on its own motion or the motion of any party, enter a prefiling order
which prohibits a vexatious litigant from filing any new litigation in the
courts of this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of the
presiding justice or presiding judge of the court where the litigation is proposed
to be filed. Disobedience of the order by a vexatious litigant may be punished
as a contempt of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7, subd. (a).) Any new action
filed by Anderson pending the appeal can and will be subject to dismissal and
potential contempt sanctions.
 
As for the concurrent Demurrer and Motion to Strike, the
motions are off-calendar, due to the stay on enforcement of the bond and
pending appeal. The court once again offers the parties the opportunity to
continue the hearings, or take the items off-calendar, pending the appeals and
the hearing regarding compliance with the bond. If no action is taken in
advance of the hearing(s), the court will continue any and all items into 2024.
If the action is dismissed, all dates will be vacated.
 
Moving Defendants to give notice to all parties.
 