 Case Number:  24STCV03098    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JIANGXI DACHENG ELECTROMECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
  IMPORT AND EXPORT CO. LTD 
  
        
  vs.
 
CHW TRADING, INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV03098
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 20, 2024




 
 
Dacheng’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the first and second
causes of action. The Court does not consider Dacheng’s demurrer to the third
cause of action.
 
            On
2/6/2024, Plaintiff Jiangxi Dacheng Electromechnical Equipment Import and Export
Co. Ltd. filed suit against CHW Trading, Inc., Chundi Liu aka Chun Di Liu,
Catwalk to Sidewalk Inc., and Kyong Won Kang, alleging: (1)
fraud/misrepresentation; (2) breach of contract; and (3) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
            On
3/20/2024, Cross-Complainants Catwalk to Sidewalk, Inc. and Kyong Won Kang
filed a cross-complaint against Jiangxi Dacheng Electromechnical Equipment
Import and Export Co. Ltd, CHW Trading, Inc., Chundi Liu aka Chun Di Liu. On
4/19/2024, Cross-Complainants filed a first amended cross-complaint (FAXC),
alleging: (1) fraud; (2) conspiracy; (3) conversion; (4) violation of Penal
Code and section 496(c) 
 
            On
4/23/2024, Cross-Defendant Jiangxi Dacheng Electromechnical Equipment Import
and Export Co. Ltd. (Dacheng) demurred to the FAXC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the only demurring party here is Dacheng. While Dacheng
demurs to the first three causes of action, only the first and second causes of
action are asserted against Dacheng. Accordingly, the Court limits its analysis
to the first and second causes of action, as Dacheng may not challenge the
sufficiency of claims not asserted against it. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees that Cross-Complainants have failed to allege
sufficient facts to state a claim for fraud or conspiracy against Dacheng. 
 
            As
to the first cause of action for fraud, Cross-Complainants’ claim is based on
allegations that CHW forged the Sales Contract, and two Supplemental
Agreements, by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on the Contracts without
Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization:
 
34.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that on or about June 24, 2019, CHW
forged the Sales Contract by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on the Sales
Contract without Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization.
 
35.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that on or about June 8, 2019, CHW
forged the Supplemental Agreement by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on
the document without Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization. 
 
36.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that on or about March 3, 2020, CHW
forged the Supplemental Agreement by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on
the document without Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization.
 
As such, Cross-Complainants’
allegations indicate that CHW, not Dacheng, executed the forgery. 
 
The only facts
alleged by Cross-Complainants specific to Dacheng are that Dacheng is mistaken
that Cross-Complainants are bound by the Contracts because they never actually signed
any of the Sales Contracts in question, and that Dacheng’s insistence that such
Contracts exist is false: “The representation made by Cross-Defendants that
Catwalk signed the Sales Contract is in fact false. The true facts were that
Cross-Complaints never agreed to or signed the Sales Contracts, Supplemental
Agreement 1, and Supplemental Agreement 2.” (FAXC ¶ 44.) 
 
As such,
Cross-Complainants’ allegations against Dacheng amount to a contention that Dacheng
falsely believes that Cross-Complainants signed the Sales Contracts. This
amounts to a dispute of whether or not an enforceable agreement exists, not
fraud. Cross-Complainants do not allege facts which could show Dacheng
participated in the forgery, or directed the forgery to take place. As such,
Dacheng’s belief that an enforceable Contract exists does not amount to a
fraudulent misrepresentation, but rather is a question of breach of contract.
Indeed, even Cross-Complainants allege that “on or about June 2019, CHW
informed Dacheng that CHW asked Catwalk to sign the Sales Contract on CHW’s
behalf.” (FAXC ¶ 33.) This would suggest that Dacheng was itself misled by CHW
as to why Catwalk’s signature was included on the Contracts. 
 
Cross-Complainants
will be granted leave to amend to clarify their allegations, and to address
this uncertainty.  
 
As for the
second cause of action, Cross-complainants allege that Cross-Defendants
“knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed among themselves forge documents,
namely, the Sales Contract, Supplemental Agreement 1, the Supplemental
Agreement 2…” (FAXC ¶ 47.) While this allegation would seem to suggest that
Cross-Complainants do contend that Dacheng participated in the fraud,
this contradicts Plaintiff’s other allegations that only identify CHW as the
forging party:
 
34.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that on or about June 24, 2019, CHW
forged the Sales Contract by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on the Sales
Contract without Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization.
 
35.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that on or about June 8, 2019, CHW
forged the Supplemental Agreement by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on
the document without Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization. 
 
36.
Cross-Complainants are informed and believe that on or about March 3, 2020, CHW
forged the Supplemental Agreement by placing Catwalk’s name and signature on
the document without Cross-Complainants knowledge and authorization.
 
            As
such, Cross-Complainants must clarify their allegations with respect to who allegedly
participated in the fraud and conspiracy to defraud.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Dacheng’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend,
as to the first and second causes of action. The Court does not consider
Dacheng’s demurrer to the third cause of action. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 