 Case Number:  21STCV43732    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV43732




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Ryan Cain Newell 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts[1]
3.     Declaration of Caitlin M. Salata 
4.     Compendium of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities
2.     Plaintiff’s Opposition to Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts[2]

3.     Declaration of Igor Fradkin
4.     Compendium of Exhibits in Support
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.     Defendant’s Reply
2.     Defendant’s Response to Separate Statement of
Disputed and Additional Undisputed Facts
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 30, 2021, Plaintiff
Ryan Cain Newell (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Albertsons
Companies, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc. John Doe, and Does 1 to 100 for injuries
related to a stabbing. Plaintiff alleges that on November 8, 2021, he entered a
Vons grocery store and was instructed by John Doe, a security guard, to wear a
mask. As Plaintiff was attempting to comply, John Doe “suddenly and without
warning, physically assaulted Plaintiff and stabbed him several times with a
knife with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.” (Complaint
¶ 8.) 
 
Against Moving Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Defendant”),
Plaintiff asserts negligence and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention
causes of action. Plaintiff alleges that because of the special relationship
between the security guard and Defendant, Defendant owed a duty to control John
Doe and protect Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 35.) He also alleges Defendant “knew or
should have known that Defendant John Doe was incompetent and unfit and that
his incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others, including
Plaintiff.” (Id. ¶ 41.) 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgement, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication, arguing there are no facts that Defendant breached a duty
of care, and no evidence Defendant knew the guard was unfit. Plaintiff opposes
and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.)  
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
 
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards
held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion
must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be
granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)        
 
 
DISCUSSION
A. Negligence 
“The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care;
(b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the¿proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) “The first element, duty, may
be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special
relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a
duty is a question of law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v.
Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.) 
“ ‘Generally a person does not have
a duty to control another's conduct or to warn those who may be endangered by
such conduct. However, a duty may arise where a special relationship exists
giving rise to a right to such protection. [Citation.]’ [Citation.] Such a
special relationship exists ‘between a business establishment and its customers
[which] as a matter of law places an affirmative “duty” on the proprietor to
take reasonable precautions to protect patrons from reasonably anticipative
criminal conduct of unknown third parties. [Citations.]’ [Citations.] Moreover,
the duty is applicable to the agents and employees of the business
establishment.” (Balard v. Bassman Event Security, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 243, 247.) “[F]orseeability is a ‘crucial factor’ in determining the
existence and scope of a legal duty.” (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005)
36 Cal.4th 224, 237.)
A duty may also arise under a respondeat superior
theory, based on actual or ostensible agency, or based on a theory of
negligence in hiring or retaining (discussed in greater detail below). (Hawkins
v. Wilton (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 936, 941 [discussing theories].) “[A]
principal may be liable for the wrongful conduct of its agent, even if that
conduct is criminal, in one of three ways: (1) if the ‘principal directly
authorizes … the tort or crime to be committed’ [citations omitted]; (2) if the
agents commits the tort ‘in the scope of his employment and in performing
service on behalf of the principal’ [citation omitted], ‘regardless of whether
the wrong is authorized or ratified by the principal’ [citation omitted], and
even if the wrong is criminal [citation omitted]; or (3) if the principal
ratifies its agent’s conduct ‘after the fact by … voluntarily electing to adopt
the agent’s conduct … as its own’.’ (Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los
Angeles (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 953, 969.)
“A corporation may be held vicariously liable as a
principal for the torts of its agents. [Citation.] ‘Whether a person performing
work for another is an agent or an independent contractor depends primarily
upon whether the one for whom the work is done has the legal right to control
the activities of the alleged agent.’ [Citation.] ‘Actual agency typically
arises by express agreement. [Citations.].... [¶] “ ‘Agency is the relationship
which results from the manifestation of consent by one person to another that
the other shall act on his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by
the other so to act.’ [Citation.] ‘The principal must in some manner indicate
that the agent is to act for him, and the agent must act or agree to act on his
behalf and subject to his control.’ [Citation.]” [Citation.] Thus, the
“formation of an agency relationship is a bilateral matter. Words or conduct by
both principal and agent are necessary to create the relationship ....”
[Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘ “In the absence of the essential characteristic of
the right of control, there is no true agency....” [Citations.] [¶] “The fact
that parties had a preexisting relationship is not sufficient to make one party
the agent for the other.... [Citation.] An agency is proved by evidence that
the person for whom the work was performed had the right to control the
activities of the alleged agent. [Citation.]” [Citations.]’” (Secci v.
United Independant Taxi Drivers, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 846, 855.) 
“[W]hether an agency relationship has been created
or exists is determined by the relation of the parties as they in fact exist by
agreement or acts [citation], and the primary right of control is particularly
persuasive. [Citations.] Other factors may be considered to determine if an
independent contractor is acting as an agent, including: whether the
‘principal’ and ‘agent’ are engaged in distinct occupations; the skill required
to perform the ‘agent's’ work; whether the ‘principal’ or ‘agent’ supplies the
workplace and tools; the length of time for completion; whether the work is
part of the ‘principal’ regular business; and whether the parties intended to
create an agent/principal relationship. [Citation.]” (Secci, supra,
8 Cal.App.5th at 855.) 
The existence of an
agency is a factual question which can only be made as a matter of law when the
essential facts are not in conflict. (Secci, supra, 8
Cal.App.5th at 854.)
Defendant argues that it did not hire Wade, and
thus is not liable for his actions. Even if Wade is considered an agent,
Defendant argues there is no evidence it knew he was unfit. 
Here, the following facts are undisputed. On
November 8, 2021, Plaintiff went to Vons grocery store located at 710 Broadway
in Santa Monica, California. (UMF 1.) Phillip Wade was a security guard working
at the Vons grocery store located at 710 Broadway in Santa Monica, California
on November 8, 2021. (UMF 2.) On November 8, 2021, Plaintiff and Phillip Wade
(“Wade”) were involved in a physical altercation at the Vons grocery store
located at 710 Broadway in Santa Monica, California. (UMF 3.) Wade did not wear
a Vons uniform. (Pl. Resp. UMF 4.) 
Defendant sets forth the following additional
facts:
-       
Phillip Wade was employed by GSSI, Inc., and not
Vons.  (UMF 4.) 
-       
No Vons employee made any physical contact with
Plaintiff on November 8, 2021. (UMF 5.) 
-       
Vons did not hire Phillip Wade, nor train or supervise
him. (UMF 6.) 
Here, Defendant has not met its initial burden to
show the absence of a triable issue of fact regarding whether a duty arose by
virtue of a special relationship.[3] Defendant
does not present any facts regarding foreseeability. Defendant only addresses
the separate theory of liability, regarding whether Wade was an employee. As to
this theory, Defendant has met its initial burden. In opposition, Plaintiff
does not appear to dispute that Wade was employed by GSSI, Inc. However, he
alleges that Wade was Defendant’s agent, and as a result, Defendant is liable
for his actions. 
Plaintiff sets forth the following facts: 
-       
Vons’ store director trained the guards on Vons’
policies and procedures, including customers wearing masks. (PAMF 1.) 
-       
Vons required the security guards receive training
regarding Von’s shoplifting deterrence policy; public/human relations and
communications; access control;  patrol
techniques; fire protection; reports; legal aspects of private
security/employee relations; accessibility; emergency response; and
antiharassment and discrimination training. (PAMF 3.)
-       
Vons had the right to reject the services of any guard
assigned to the location for any reason at any time. (PAMF 8.) 
-       
Vons had Post Orders which specify what it requires of
its security guards. (PAMF 9.) 
-       
Changes to the Post Orders could only be made with
Vons’ approval. (PAMF 10.) 
-       
Vons had the right to change the Post Orders in an
emergency situation. (PAMF 11.) 
-       
Vons had the right to create temporary special orders
for the guards. (PAMF 12.) 
-       
Vons determined the location of the guard’s post next
to the front door. (PAMF 13.) 
-       
Vons’ managers had the right to instruct the guard
leave his post to focus on a particular area of the store and the guards were
required to follow Vons’ orders. (PAMF 15.) 
-       
Guards needed permission from Vons to take their
breaks. (PAMF 22.) 
-       
Vons required the guards to complete Daily Activity
Reports which are maintained in a binder in the store. (PAMF 24.) 
There remain triable issues of fact regarding the
existence of a duty. As to the agency theory, Plaintiff raises facts regarding
whether Defendant exercised sufficient control over Wade.[4] 
Additionally, because breach of duty is generally
a question of fact, the Court cannot conclude based on the evidence, and inferences
favoring Plaintiff, that Defendant did not breach its duty. (See Constance
B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”) [breach
of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury; if the circumstances permit a
reasonable doubt whether the defendant’s conduct violates the standard of due
care, the doubt must be resolved by the jury as an issue of fact rather than of
law by the court].)
Therefore, the motion for summary adjudication of
the negligence cause of action is denied. 
B. Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
Defendant also seeks adjudication on the negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action.
“[A]n employer can be liable to a third person for
negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe v.
Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) To establish a cause of
action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff must show
that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs. (See Z.V. v.
County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; see also Doe, supra,
50 Cal.App.4th at p. 1054.) To be liable for negligent supervision and hiring,
there must be a connection between the employment and injury. (Mendoza v.
City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1341.) “Liability for
negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an
enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to
customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the
wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees. (Id. at 1339.) “The
tort has developed in California in factual settings where the plaintiff’s
injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact between the plaintiff and the
employee was generated by the employment relationship.” (Id. at pp.
1339-1340.)
Based on the facts above, since this cause of
action is premised on actions of an employer, Defendant meets its initial
burden since Wade was not employed by Defendant. 
Here, while Plaintiff contends Wade was an agent of
Defendant, he sets forth no facts establishing that Wade was an employee. He
also discusses no authority applying this cause of action to an agent. Therefore,
he fails to meet his burden to show a triable issue of fact surrounding the negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action.
Therefore, the motion for summary adjudication as
to the negligent hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action is granted.

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
of the negligence cause of action is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the negligent hiring, supervision, and retention cause of
action is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.


