 Case Number:  21STCV28134    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28134




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Determination of Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Adrienne Lombard and Cynthia
  Lombard




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Uber Technologies, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Adrienne Lombard and Cynthia Lombard (“Defendants”) move for
a determination that a settlement has been entered in good faith with
Plaintiffs Kenny Reese and Michele Bias (“Plaintiffs”). Defendant Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
However, the rule in Tech-Bilt
that the settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be, has an exception. “[B]ad faith is not established
merely by a showing that a settling defendant with limited ability to satisfy a
judgment will pay less than his or her theoretical proportionate share: ‘Such a
rule would unduly discourage settlements. “For the damages are often
speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor is often uncertain
or remote. And even where the claimant's damages are obviously great, and the
liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement figure is often
reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or
underinsured, joint tortfeasor.” [Citation.]’” (Schmid v. Superior Court (1988)
205 Cal.App.3d 1244, 1248 [quoting Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
499]; see also City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1264 [“The wealth or non-wealth of the settling defendant is a
factor for the trial court to consider under Tech-Bilt.”].) 
 
Schmid involved a car accident where the plaintiff alleged
$500,000 in damages. (Schmid, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at 1247.) The defendant driver, Schmid,
offered her insurance policy limit of $55,000 as a settlement. Even though the
trial court denied the motion for good faith because the settlement was
disproportional to her liability, the Court of Appeal reversed because the
settlement represented the policy limit, there was undisputed evidence that
Schmid had no other assets, and the non-settling defendant had failed to oppose
the motion. (Id. at 1248–49.) 
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Moving Defendants have entered into a settlement with Plaintiffs. According
to the terms, Defendants will pay each Plaintiff $14,290.00 in exchange for
dismissing the complaint against Defendants with prejudice. Each side will bear
their own fees and costs. 
 
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident that occurred on
August 2, 2019. Plaintiffs allege they were Uber passengers in a vehicle driven
by Defendant Marco Martinez Aguilar (“Aguilar”). Adrienne Lombard was backing
out of her driveway when the vehicle collided with Aguilar’s vehicle. Cynthia
Lombard is the registered owner of the vehicle Adrienne Lombard was driving but
was not present at the incident. Plaintiffs allege they suffered injuries from
the impact. 
 
Before Plaintiffs filed this lawsuit, Defendants settled with Aguilar
for $1,420 through their insurance, on August 6, 2019. (Fassonaki Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs
filed their lawsuit on July 30, 2021. The settlement amount to Plaintiffs
represents the total remaining policy limits of $30,000 towards Aguilar and
Plaintiffs, who were involved in the subject incident. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs
made a policy-limit demand to Defendants in May and June 2021 and Defendants’
insurer, Progressive, offered the remaining limit of $28,580. (Id. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiffs agreed that the remaining limit be split equally between the two
Plaintiffs. The settlement was achieved after Progressive received Plaintiffs’
medical bills and records. (Motion, 10.) Defendants assert that the settlement
is the result of arms-length discussions and that there is no evidence of
collusion or fraud. (Fassonaki Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
In opposition, Uber contends that Plaintiffs Reese and Bias are
claiming $1,218,834.39 and $390,146.41 in medical specials, respectively. Thus,
they argue the settlement is not proportionate to Defendants’ liability. 
 
While Defendants provide limited information regarding their proximate
liability other than that their insurer, Progressive, received Plaintiffs’
medical records,[1] the
Court finds significant the declaration of Adrienne Lombard.[2]
(See Fassonaki Decl., Exh. 3.) In it, Adrienne Lombard declares, under penalty
of perjury, that her policy limits were $30,000 per accident, she has no other
insurance policies, and does not possess real property or other assets.
(Lombard Decl. ¶¶ 3–6.) 
 
However, Uber argues that it is currently conducting discovery as to
whether there is an applicable homeowner’s insurance policy that may provide
additional coverage. Accordingly, the Court continues the motion for Uber to
complete discovery relating to Adrienne Lombard’s claims of insolvency and
insurance.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for determination of good faith settlement is continued
to October 2, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.
 
Defendants shall give notice of the ruling and file a proof of service
of such. 


