 Case Number:  22STCV15320    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV15320




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery  




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Cielo Guzman 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Dial Transport Inc. and Venerando Bautista 



 
 
MOTION
 
On May 9, 2022,
Plaintiff Cielo Guzman (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Dial
Transport Inc. (“Dial”) and Venerando Bautista (“Bautista”) for damages related
to a motor vehicle accident.¿¿Plaintiff asserts a general negligence
cause of action and also alleges that Dial negligently entrusted the vehicle to
Bautista. (Complaint, 5.) 
 
On May 14, 2024, Dial’s
person most knowledgeable, Alex Chau, was deposed and testified that Dial no
longer had Bautista’s employment file. 
 
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to reopen discovery regarding why Dial is no longer in
possession of the employment file. Defendants Dial Transport Inc. and
Venerando Bautista (“Defendants”) oppose. No reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on May 9, 2022. 
 
The answers were filed on August 26, 2022. 
 
On August 18, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial to April 10, 2024. 
 
On March 7, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ ex parte
application and continued trial and all related dates to June 12, 2024. (Min.
Order, 3/7/24.) 
 
On May 14, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ ex parte
application and continued trial to August 12, 2024. Only expert discovery tracked
to the August 12, 2024 date. (Min. Order, 5/14/24.)
 
Therefore, based on the above, fact discovery attaches to
the June 12, 2024 date, and expert discovery attaches to the August 12, 2024
trial date.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Ryan J. Daneshrad, Plaintiff’s counsel, does not
set forth facts of a meet and confer effort prior to filing this motion. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As stated
above, Plaintiff seeks to reopen fact discovery regarding why Dial is no longer
in possession of Bautista’s employment file. This fact was revealed during the
deposition of Dial’s PMK, Alex Chau, which took place on May 14, 2024. Mr. Chau
testified that the file was lost sometime in November 2023, when Dial was aware
of the instant lawsuit. (Daneshrad Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. E.) 
 
As a
result, Plaintiff argues there is good cause to reopen discovery since this
information was revealed after the fact discovery cut off had passed. Plaintiff
also sets forth evidence that Plaintiff was attempting to schedule the
deposition since December 5, 2023. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not articulated what remaining
discovery is necessary, noting that Plaintiff had to the opportunity to
question Chau during the deposition. 
 
The Court
agrees that Plaintiff has not sufficiently explained the necessity and the
reasons for the discovery, or the diligence in seeking the discovery. The
motion is also procedurally defective in failing to set forth efforts to meet
and confer.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen discovery is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 