 Case Number:  22STCV27553    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  26 07/30/24
Dept. 26
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
S.T., et al. v. SANTA MONICA-MALIBU
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al. (22STCV27553)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Christa Ramey,
Esq. and Schyler Katz, Esq. (Abir Cohen Treyzon Salo, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party: Harry W. Harrison, Esq., Emily S. Beck, Esq., and
Dana H. Furman, Esq. (Tyson & Mendes)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS FROM DEFENDANT TO PLAINTIFFS’ REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF documents
PURSUANT TO THE NOTICE OF DEPOSITION OF THE PERSON MOST QUALIFIED FOR DEFENDANT
(filed 06/07/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The motion to compel further production of documents is GRANTED IN PART.

 
I.         
BACKGROUND
 
On August 23, 2022, Plaintiff S.T. (“S.T.”), a minor individual,
by and through his guardian ad litem, Sandra T., filed a Complaint
against Defendants Santa Monica Malibu Unified School District, Laura Simone,
Laura Paule Sheahan, Shaun Simone, Jeffrey Keller, Xaiver Jauregui, Stacy Low,
and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2)
Negligence/Statutory Negligence; (3) Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision,
and Training; and (4) Unruh Act Violation. The complaint arises from Plaintiff
S.T. being bullied as a student at Santa Monica High School. (Complaint, ¶ 17.)

 
On September 8, 2022, Plaintiff C.R. (“C.R.”), a minor individual,
by and through his guardian ad litem, Sherley R. filed a Complaint in
LASC Case No. 22SMCV01521, C.R. v. Santa Monica Malibu Unified School
District, et al., against Defendants Santa Monica Malibu Unified
School District, Laura Simone, Laura Paule Sheahan, Shaun Simone, Jeffrey
Keller, Xaiver Jauregui, Stacy Low, Antonio Shelton, and Does 1 through 50,
alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence/Statutory
Negligence; and (3) Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision, and Training. The
complaint in LASC Case No. 22SMCV01521 arises from Plaintiff C.R. being bullied
as a student at Santa Monica High School. 
 
On October 13, 2022, the instant action and LASC Case No.
22SMCV01521 were deemed related, with the instant action being deemed the lead
case. (10/13/22 Minute Order.) 
 
On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff S.T. filed the operative First
Amended Complaint against Defendants Santa Monica Malibu Unified School
District, Laura Simone, Laura Paule Sheahan, Shaun Simone, Jeffrey Keller,
Xaiver Jauregui, Stacy Low, and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action
for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision, and
Training. Also, on January 5, 2023, in LASC Case No. 22SMCV01521, Plaintiff
C.R. filed a First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence;
and (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision, and Training. 
 
On January 31, 2023, pursuant to a request for dismissal filed by
Plaintiff S.T., Defendants Xavier Jauregui, Stacy Low, Laura Simone, Laura
Paule Sheahan, and Jeffrey Keller were dismissed without prejudice. 
 
On February 1, 2023, Defendant Santa Monica Malibu Unified School
District (“Defendant”) filed an Answer to the respective complaints filed by
Plaintiff S.T. and Plaintiff C.R. 
 
On July 20, 2023, a Stipulation for Protective Order and Order was
entered into in the instant action between Plaintiff S.T. and Defendant. 
 
On September 29, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court
granted the motion to consolidate filed by Plaintiff S.T. and Plaintiff C.R.
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”). (09/29/23 Minute Order.) As such, the instant action
and LASC Case No. 22SMCV01521 were consolidated with the instant action being
deemed the lead case. (09/29/23 Minute Order.)  
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel Further
Production of Documents from Defendant to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of
Documents Pursuant to the Notice of Deposition of the Person Most Qualified for
Defendant, arguing that: 
 
·      
Defendant failed to produce all responsive documents.
·      
Plaintiffs have properly and timely brought their motion pursuant
to the Code of Civil Procedure.
·      
Plaintiffs’ counsel complied with their meet and confer obligation.
·      
The Court has authority to compel further production of documents
in response to Plaintiffs’ request for production. 
·      
Federal law allows disclosure of the records sought pursuant to a
judicial order. 
·      
The documents sought are directly relevant to the subject matter
of this litigation and do not constitute a serious invasion of privacy.
·      
The protective order in place protects the privacy concerns. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that:
 
·      
There is no legal or factual basis to compel the production of
documents nos. 1 and 2.
·      
There is no legal or factual basis to compel the production of
documents nos. 5, 6, 9, and 10.
·      
Non-party student records requested in nos. 3, 4, 7, and 8 require
consent or court order prior to production. 
 
On reply, Plaintiffs argue that:
 
·      
There is a stipulated protective order between the parties. 
·      
There is no obligation that Plaintiff provide notice to
non-parties of the motion. 
 
 
 
II.         
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion to Provide Further Responses to a Request for Production of
Documents
 
Under Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the
party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2017.010.) 
 
“If, after service, of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may
move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document . . . or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) To justify
the production of documents at deposition, a party must “set forth specific
facts showing good cause.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b).)  
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document .
. . under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or
a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).) A motion brought pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480 “shall be
made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)  
 
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1)
a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an
objection to the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(1)-(3).)  A motion brought pursuant to CCP §
2031.310 “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)   
 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
The Court finds
that the meet and confer requirement has not been met. (Katz Decl., ¶¶ 7-9;
Exs. D, E, and F.) While Plaintiffs’ counsel does provide evidence of meet and
confer discussions concerning student disciplinary records, Plaintiffs’
counsel’s meet and confer correspondence does not reference discussions as to
employee disciplinary records or disciplinary action taken against employees. (Id.)
Moreover, the meet and confer correspondence does not evidence any
communications as to policies, procedures, notices, and/or directives
concerning student discipline or employee discipline at Santa Monica High in
effect from 2021 to the present. (Id.)
 
“The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an
informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency,
Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) Here, although requesting further
responses to RFP Nos. 1-10, Plaintiffs have failed to provide evidence of meet
and confer discussions as to RFP Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, and 10. Given that
Plaintiffs are seeking to compel further responses to a request for
production of documents, Plaintiffs were required to provide a sufficient “meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).) 
 
C.     Evidence in
Support of the Motion 
 
According to
the declaration of Schyler S. Katz (“Katz”) submitted in support of Plaintiffs’
motion, on March 7, 2024, Plaintiffs served a deposition notice for Defendant’s
Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) Re: Discipline inclusive of the subject Request
for Production of Documents to which Defendant objected. (Katz Decl., ¶ 4; Exs.
A and B.) The deposition was set for March 25, 2024. (Katz Decl., ¶ 4.) Due to
meet and confer efforts, Defendant agreed to produce two persons as its PMQ,
Marae Cruce and Antonio Shelton. (Katz Decl., ¶ 5.) Ms. Cruce’s final portion
of her deposition took place on April 11, 2024. (Katz Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs’
counsel and defense counsel already stipulated to a protective order, which was
filed and entered by the Court on July 30, 2023. (Katz Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. C.)
Plaintiffs are seeking disciplinary records of Santa Monica High students.
(Katz Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Pursuant to
the deposition notice served on Defendant, Plaintiffs seek the following
categories of documents: 
1.     Any and all
documents related to Defendant’s policies and procedures, notices, and/or
directives concerning student discipline at Santa Monica High in effect between
2021 and the present;
2.     Any and all
documents related to Defendant’s policies and procedures, notices, and/or
directives concerning employee discipline at Santa Monica High in effect
between 2021 and the present;
3.     Any and all
documents related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken for
students at Santa Monica High which in any way relates to the allegations that
form the basis of Plaintiff C.R.’s operative complaint;
4.     Any and all
documents related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken for
students at Santa Monica High which in any way relates to the allegations that
form the basis of Plaintiff S.T.’s operative complaint;
5.     Any and all
documents related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken for
employees at Santa Monica High, which in any way relates to the allegations
that form the basis of Plaintiff C.R.’s operative complaint; 
6.     Any and all
documents related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken for
employees at Santa Monica High, which in any way relates to the allegations
that form the basis of Plaintiff S.T.’s operative complaint;
7.     Any and all
correspondence related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken
for students at Santa Monica High, which in any way relates to the allegations
that form the basis of Plaintiff C.R.’s operative complaint; 
8.     Any and all
correspondence related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken
for students at Santa Monica High, which in any way relates to the allegations
that form the basis of Plaintiff S.T.’s operative complaint;
9.     Any and all
correspondence related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken
for employees at Santa Monica High, which in any way relates to the allegations
that form the basis of Plaintiff C.R.’s operative complaint; and 
10.  Any and all
correspondence related to discipline and/or disciplinary measures undertaken
for employees at Santa Monica High, which in any way relates to the allegations
that form the basis of Plaintiff S.T.’s operative complaint. 
 
D.     Evidence in
Opposition to the Motion
 
In opposition to the motion, Defendant’s counsel, Dana H. Furman
(“Furman”), provides a declaration. Counsel declares the following: she had multiple
conversations with Plaintiffs’ counsel at the onset of this case advising her
that Plaintiffs would need to obtain a consent from the parents or a court
order before Defendant could release private and confidential student records
for non-party students. (Furman Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1.) Plaintiffs served a PMQ
deposition notice requesting 10 categories of records and Defendant objected.
(Furman Decl., ¶ 4.) In response to RFP No. 1., Defendant agreed to produce
policies and procedures related to student discipline and did, in fact, produce
Bate-stamped documents in response to such request. (Furman Decl., ¶ 4.) In
response to RFP No. 2, Defendant also agreed and did, in fact, product policies
and procedures regarding employee discipline. (Furman Decl., ¶ 4.) Ms. Furman
states that there were no meet and confer communications concerning RFP Nos. 5,
6, 9, and 10 regarding employee records, and there were no meet and confer communications
regarding RFP Nos. 1 and 2, which concern policies and procedures regarding
employee discipline and student discipline. (Furman Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7.) Defendant
served an Amended Objection to the Deposition Notice. (Furman Decl., ¶ 9; Ex.
3.) In response to RFP No. 5, 6, 9, and 10, Defendant articulated numerous
objections and indicated that it was unaware of any documents responsive to
such requests. (Furman Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 3.) 
 
E.     Appropriateness
of Compelling Further Responses to RFP Nos. 1-10 
 
As to RFP
Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, and 10, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ motion is
deficient as to such requests. Although the respective complaints do allege
wrongdoing by students and employees at Santa Monica High, Plaintiffs were
required to sufficiently meet and confer prior to bringing the instant motion. Defendant
argues, and produces evidence through the declaration of Ms. Furman, that
Plaintiffs did not meet and confer as to those categories of requests. 
 
Moreover, the
Court notes that Plaintiffs’ motion is made pursuant to CCP § 2031.010, which
concerns a party “inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents . . . in
the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Here, Defendants objected to the deposition
notice. As such, Plaintiffs are moving to compel the further responses of
Defendant but did not provide specific facts in the declaration of Ms. Katz
showing why further production should be compelled. “A party seeking to compel
discovery must . . . set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought.” (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) “To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must
identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and explain how
the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead
to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” (Ibid.)
 
Thus, not
only did Plaintiffs fail to properly meet and confer as to RFP Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6,
9, and 10, Plaintiffs have failed to show good cause to warrant further
production as to such requests. Additionally, as to RFP Nos. 1 and 2, Defendant
indicates that it produced documents in response to such requests. (Furman
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
As such, the
Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion as it concerns RFP Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, and 10. 
 
As to RFP
Nos. 3, 4, 7, and 8, such requests concern discipline or disciplinary measures
taken against students at Santa Monica High related to the allegations of the
respective complaints. The Court notes that such information is relevant because
the respective complaints allege wrongdoing against Plaintiffs perpetrated by
students of Santa Monica High. Defendant does not take issue with the
production of such documents. (Opp’n at p. 6:19-22.) 
 
“A school
district is not authorized to permit access to pupil records to any person
without written parental consent or under judicial order . . . .” (Rim of
the World Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
1393, 1396.) A pupil record is defined “as any item of information directly
related to an identifiable pupil, other than directory information, which is
maintained by a school district.” (BRV, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 742, 752.) A pupil record is “information relative to an
individual pupil gathered within or without the school system and maintained
within the school system.” (Ibid.) 
 
“As with
California law, the federal Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
provides for the privacy of education records.” (Rim of the World Unified
School Dist. v. Superior Court, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th 1393, 1397.) “Education
records are defined as documents which contain information directly related to
a student or are maintained by an educational agency or institution.” (Ibid.)
“FERPA does not actually prohibit the release of education records. Rather,
FERPA conditions the availability of federal funds on conformance with its
provisions.” (Id. at p. 1398.) FERPA provides that “[n]o funds shall be
made available under any applicable program to any educational agency or
institution which has a policy or practice permitting the release of education
records . . . of students without the written consent of their parents to any
individual, agency, or organization . . . .” (Ibid.) 
 
Initially,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ reliance on BRV, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 742 is inapposite as such case involved misconduct allegations
against a school superintendent. Here, Plaintiffs are alleging that other
students are perpetrators of wrongful actions. Thus, the disciplinary records
sought here are pupil records as they relate to student discipline. Plaintiffs
provided notice of the instant motion, via priority mail, on June 17, 2024, to
the parents of the students whom disciplinary records are sought pursuant to
RFP Nos. 3, 4, 7, and 8. (See 06/18/24 Proof of Service.) Given that none of
the students via their parents or counsel have opposed the instant motion, the Court
may authorize the release of such information pursuant to a court order. The
Court finds that such information is relevant to Plaintiffs proving their
claims in this action. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request to compel further verified responses to
RFP Nos. 3, 4, 7, and 8. 
 
III.         
DISPOSITION

 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiffs’ Motion
to Compel Further Production of Documents from Defendant to Plaintiffs’ Request
for Production of Documents Pursuant to the Notice of Deposition of the Person
Most Qualified for Defendant. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ request to compel further responses
to RFP Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, and 10.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request to compel further responses
to RFP Nos. 3, 4, 7 and 8 and orders Defendant to provide verified, complete,
and code-compliant responses to RFP Nos. 3, 4, 7, and 8, without objections,
within 30 days of the date of this order.  