  Case Number:  21STCV46495    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  26 07/30/2024 Dept. 73 Rolf M. Treu, Judge presiding   JANE DOE v. SIGMA ALPHA MU, et al. ([21STCV46495])   Counsel for  Plaintiff/opposing party:             Hillary  Johns Counsel for  Defendants/moving party:          Mary Childs and Patrick Ball of Yoka  & Smith, LLP   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN the  ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 03/01/2024)   TENTATIVE RULING   Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment  is GRANTED..   I. BACKGROUND   Plaintiff  Jane Doe was allegedly raped by Defendant Peter Hwang at a fraternity party  held by Defendant Mu Theta Chapter at University of Southern California (“USC  Mu Theta Chapter”) at the Mu Theta Chapter House on January 25 or 26, 2020.  The rape allegedly took place in the  gymnasium located inside the Chapter House.   Defendant Mu Theta Chapter hired Defendant The Perfect Event, Inc. to  provide certain services at the party, including security.  Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.,  SAM National Properties, LLC, SAM USC Housing, LLC and SAM Property Management,  LLC are entities affiliated with Defendant USC Mu Theta Chapter.     On December  21, 2021, Plaintiff filed this action naming Defendants.  The operative complaint is the Second Amended  Complaint alleging (1) negligence; (2) negligence-premises liability; (3)  negligent hiring, supervision and retention; (4) negligence (the Perfect  Event); (5) negligent hiring, supervision (The Perfect Event); (6) negligent  security; (7) assault; (8) battery; (9) NIED; (10) IIED.     On March 1, 2024, Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“SAM Inc.”)  filed the Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Motion or Summary  Adjudication currently before the Court, arguing: ·                  Plaintiff’s four causes of action  against it (Negligence, Premises Liability, Negligent Supervision, Hiring, and  Retention, and NIED) fail as an issue of law, because Defendant (1) is immune  from such claims based on Civil Code §1714(c) and Business & Professions  Code §25602(b) and (2) did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care. ·                  Defendant argues it is immune from  liability under Civil Code §1714(c) and Business and Professions Code §25602(b)  for any injuries suffered by Plaintiff or any third persons due to Plaintiff’s  consumption of beverages furnished by Defendant.  Defendant argues it is undisputed that  Plaintiff arrived at the party intoxicated and that she continued to consume  alcohol after she arrived.  Defendant  argues it is also undisputed that Plaintiff was a minor at the time.  Defendant argues these undisputed facts establish  the “social host” immunity created by Civil Code §1714(c) and Business &  Professions Code §25602(b).   ·                  Defendant also argues the negligence  claims fail against it, because it did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care to  protect her from her alleged rapist, Peter Hwang, nor did Defendant own,  control or manage the Chapter House where alleged rape occurred.  Defendant argues no duty of care can be based  on a special relationship between itself and USC Mu Theta.  Defendant argues it did not have a special  relationship with USC Mu Theta, which was the entity that held the party, hired  Party Events and leased the Chapter House.   Defendant argues it is merely the national fraternal organization  located thousands of miles away from USC.   Defendant argues it does not have control over the day to day activities  of USC Mu Theta.  Defendant argues that  under Barenborg v. Sup. Ct. (2019) 89 Cal.App.4th 1068, its promulgation  of certain guidelines and general policies to local chapters like USC Mu Theta  along with its authority to discipline them, was insufficient to establish the  existence of a special relationship that would support imposition of a duty of  care. ·                  Defendant also argues a duty of care  does not exist based on an assumed duty, i.e. a negligent undertaking theory of  liability.  Defendant argues that Barenborg  addressed this exact position based on similar facts and found there was no  assumed duty based solely on a national fraternity’s mission statement and its  issuance of various rules and policies to local chapters.  Defendant argues it did not have day-to-day  control or supervision over any of its local chapters,  and as the Barenborg court found,  promulgation of rules, regulations, guidelines and policies does not establish  the requisite degree of supervision and control necessary to find that the national  fraternal organization had assumed a duty of care as to the local chapter and  its daily operations. ·                  Defendant argues it also cannot be held  liable for premises liability.  Defendant  argues it has never had any ownership or possessory interest in the Chapter  House where the alleged rape occurred.   Defendant argues the Chapter House been owned at all times by Defendant  SAM USC and has been leased and occupied by Defendant USC Mu Theta at all  times.  Defendant argues these entities  are separate legal entities and it is not responsible for their  obligations.   ·                  Defendant argues it also cannot be held  vicariously liable for the acts of the other Defendants.  Defendant argues none of the other Defendants  were its agents or employees.   ·                  Defendant argues it cannot be held  liable for the acts of the other Defendants based on alter ego.  Defendant SAM Inc. argues Plaintiff does not  allege in the complaint that the other Defendants are its alter egos.  Defendant argues the facts also establish  that there is no unity of interest between Defendant SAM Inc. and the other  Defendants, nor would there be an inequitable result if the Defendants’  separate corporate existence was recognized.    ·                  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s punitive  damages claim fails as a matter of law.   Defendant argues the undisputed evidence demonstrates it is not liable  for the actions or conduct of the other Defendants, including the alleged  rapist, Peter Hwang, or USC Mu Theta, its local chapter.  Defendant argues the evidence establishes  that it had nothing to do with the party where Plaintiff was raped.  Defendant argues there is no evidence that it  acted with malice, fraud or oppression or that it ratified or authorized the  wrongful conduct of its agent.       In opposition, Plaintiff argues that: ·                  Defendants are not immune from liability  for her rape based on the immunity created by Civil Code §1714(a) and Business  & Professions Code §25602.  Plaintiff  argues she is not alleging injury due to being served alcohol at the  party.  Plaintiff argues she injury due  to a physical and sexual assault in an environment controlled, owned, managed  and maintained by SAM Inc. through the other entity Defendants.   ·                  Plaintiff  argues the alleged rapist, Peter Hwang, was sober.  Plaintiff argues she is not claiming that  Hwang raped her due to intoxication from alcohol served by Defendants.  Plaintiff argues the “social host” immunity  therefore does not apply, and the case law relied upon by Defendant SAM Inc. is  inapposite.    ·                  Plaintiff  argues SAM Inc. owed her a duty of care, because it is a member, capital  contributor, ultimate decision maker and orchestrated a housing scheme for its  own benefit.  Plaintiff argues SAM Inc.  had almost total control over the Subject Property and its tenants.  Plaintiff argues SAM Inc. had a nondelegable  duty of care as the owner or manager of the subject property.  Plaintiff argues SAM USC Housing LLC was on  the title of the Chapter House and is a landowner.  Plaintiff argues Defendant SAM Property  Management was employed to manage the subject property.  Plaintiff argues Defendant SAM National was a  member of SAM USC Housing LLC.   ·                  Plaintiff  argues SAM Inc. also owed Plaintiff a duty of care, because of its  interconnectedness with USC Mu Theta and the other entity Defendants.  Plaintiff argues SAM Inc. allows the other  entity Defendants to use its branding.   Plaintiff argues this interconnectedness is grounds to impose liability  on Defendant SAM Inc. for the actions and obligations of the other entity  defendants based on alter ego.   ·                  Plaintiff  argues Defendant SAM Inc.’s conduct and indifference merits punitive  damages.  Plaintiff argues Defendant SAM  Inc. and the other entity Defendants created the scheme, housing, rules and  regulations, established negligence, and unstructured environment that created  a known risk for sexual assault.   Plaintiff argues SAM Inc. had ultimate authority and almost total  control over the other entity Defendants.    In reply, Defendant argues, ·                  Defendant SAM Inc. argues Plaintiff’s  opposition violates multiple procedural rules, including an oversized 28-page  opposition, a 510-page separate statement, 214 additional material facts, nine  declarations, a 98-page request for judicial notice of irrelevant documents,  multiple evidentiary objections to almost the entirety of the evidence  previously submitted by SAM, Inc., and a 174-page appendix of out-of-state  authorities.  Defendant argues submission  of over 2,500 pages of documents is abusive.    ·                  Defendant argues despite submitting over  2,500 pages of documents, Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of material  fact. Defendant argues Barenborg is controlling authority in California  and Defendant owes no duty of care to Plaintiff thereunder.  Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to  distinguish Barenborg and the facts of that case are essentially  identical.   ·                  Defendant argues it is immune from  liability under Civil Code §1714(c) and Business & Professions Code  §25602.  Defendant argues social host  immunity applies to social hosts that directly furnish alcohol and to property  owners who are simply accused of negligently failing to prevent underage minors  from drinking alcohol that is available on the owner’s property.  Defendant argues Plaintiff is alleging that  it was negligence in its supervision and oversight of the Mu Theta Chapter,  which led to alcohol being served to underage guests at the party.  Defendant argues this is precisely the  situation where social host immunity applies.    ·                  Defendant argues the declaration of Luis  Oliver is objectionable.  Defendant  argues Oliver claims to be an expert in this case due to his experience as a  real estate agent.  Defendant argues  Oliver’s experience as a real estate agent and his opinions are irrelevant to  Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, because Defendant is not a property  owner, a residential landlord, a property manager or a real estate investor.  Defendant argues Oliver’s testimony regarding  standard of care and alter ego lacks foundation and is irrelevant to  Defendant’s MSJ.   ·                  Defendant argues that even if it were  “interconnected” with the other entity Defendants, the evidence presented does  not establish the legal doctrine of alter ego.   Defendant argues that even if interconnectedness were sufficient to  establish alter ego, there is no evidence that failure to apply alter ego would  result in a fraud or injustice.   ·                  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s claim for  punitive damages fails.  Defendant argues  the underlying claims fail against it because it did not owe Plaintiff a duty  of care.  Defendant argues Plaintiff also  does not submit any evidence of despicable conduct or indifference on  Defendant’s part.     II. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment               A motion for summary judgment or  adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’  pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in  fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”   (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,  843.)  It must be granted “if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119 [quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c)].)                 “A plaintiff or cross-complainant  has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of  action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling  the party to judgment on the cause of action.   Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden  shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one  or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense  thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §437c, subd.  (p)(1).)               “A party is entitled to summary  judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing there are no triable  issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  This is true even if the opposing party fails to file any opposition.  The court's assessment of whether the moving  party has carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the  court's evaluation of the opposing party's papers.  Therefore, the burden on the motion does not  initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the opposing  papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty  Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 [landlord’s failure to  address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing  operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party failed  to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue]; Thatcher v. Lucky Stores,  Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot grant summary  judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the  moving party has satisfied its burden].)                In addition, the evidence and  affidavits of the moving party are construed strictly, while those of the  opponent are liberally read.  (Government  Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All doubts as to the propriety of granting  the motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil  Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion  (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).”  (Hamburg  v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)   B.     Evidentiary  Objections               Plaintiff’s Amended Evidentiary  Objections to Huston Dec. filed on 3/1/24—OVERRULE               Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections  to Ball Dec.—Court declines to rule on the objections as they are immaterial to  the ruling per CCP §437c(q).                 Plaintiff’s 4/3/24 Evidentiary  Objections to Huston Dec. submitted as Defendant’s RJN Ex. 1—OVERRULE               Plaintiff’s 4/3/24 Evidentiary  Objections to Wright Dec. submitted as Defendant’s RJN Ex. 2—Court declines to  rule on these objections as they are not material to the Court’s ruling per CCP  §437c(q).               Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections  to Oliver Dec.—SUSTAIN                Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections  to Ruby Dec.—OVERRULE as to Nos. 26-30.               Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections  to Johns Dec.—SUSTAIN as to No. 31.                          Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections  to Hill Dec.—OVERRULE as No. 32 and SUSTAIN as to No. 33                          Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections  to Abma Dec.—OVERRULE as to Nos. 34-35.   C.     Request for  Judicial Notice               Defendant’s RJN of the declarations  filed by Huston and Wright in support of the MSJ filed by Defendants SAM  Property Management LLC, et al. is granted as to the filing of the declarations  but not as to their truth.  The  declarations are also properly submitted as evidence in support of SAM Inc.’s  MSJ even if they were submitted in support of SAM Property Management LLC’s  MSJ.               Plaintiff’s RJN of various corporate  filings by Defendants, Defendants’ pleadings, Defendants’ Trademark  Registrations and Plaintiff’s Objections to Huston and Wrights Declarations ISO  of Defendants SAM Property Management LLC, et al.’s MSJ is granted as to their  filing.     D.     Defendant SAM  Inc. fails to establish that it is entitled to summary judgment or adjudication  based on the immunity created under Civil Code §1714(c) and Business and  Professions Code §25602   1.     Applicable  Law                          “Except as provided in subdivision  (d), no social host who furnishes alcoholic beverages to any person may be held  legally accountable for damages suffered by that person, or for injury to the  person or property of, or death of, any third person, resulting from the  consumption of those beverages.”  (Civil  Code §1714(c).)                “Nothing in subdivision (c) shall  preclude a claim against a parent, guardian, or another adult who knowingly  furnishes alcoholic beverages at his or her residence to a person whom he or  she knows, or should have known, to be under 21 years of age, in which case,  notwithstanding subdivision (b), the furnishing of the alcoholic beverage may  be found to be the proximate cause of resulting injuries or death.”  (Civil Code §1714(d).)               “No person who sells, furnishes,  gives, or causes to be sold, furnished, or given away, any alcoholic beverage  pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section shall be civilly liable to any  injured person or the estate of such person for injuries inflicted on that  person as a result of intoxication by the consumer of such alcoholic  beverage.”  (Bus. & Prof. C.  §25602(b).)                 “In 1978 the Legislature changed the  nature of tort liability for those who provide alcoholic beverages in a social  setting by granting the furnishers of alcoholic beverages sweeping civil  immunity and imposing sole and exclusive liability upon the consumer of  alcoholic beverages for any injury resulting from the consumer's  intoxication.  It did so by adding  subdivision (c) to section 1714, which provides that ‘no social host who  furnishes alcoholic beverages to any person may be held legally accountable for  damages suffered by that person, or for injury to the person or property of, or  death of, any third person, resulting from the consumption of those  beverages.’”  (Allen v. Liberman  (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 46, 53, 54 (parents and their child who hosted sleepover  were immune from liability pursuant to Civil Code §1714(d) for death of minor  friend who obtained vodka from their open bar without parents’ permission or  knowledge.)                 “The Legislature adopted language  expressing its intent that ‘the furnishing of alcoholic beverages is not the  proximate cause of injuries resulting from intoxication....’ (§ 1714, subd.  (b).) Rather, the voluntary consumption of alcohol, and not its furnishing by a  social host, is the proximate cause of injury resulting from the use of  alcohol.”  (Id. at 54.)                 “Since 1978, social host immunity  has been interpreted to apply to the failure to supervise individuals who drink  alcohol at social events.  Thus, to the  extent plaintiff's theory of liability rests on defendants' failure to  supervise their guests to whom they had furnished alcohol, defendants are  shielded by immunity.”  (Id. at  55.)     2.     Defendant  fails to establish that “social host” immunity set forth under Civil code  §1714(c) and Business and Professions Code §24602 apply as an issue of law here               Defendant argues it cannot be held  liable for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries, because it is immune from liability  under the “social host” immunity under Civil Code §1714(c) and Bus. & Prof.  C. §25602.  Plaintiff is suing for  damages resulting from Defendant Peter Hwang’s alleged violent rape of her in  the gymnasium of the Chapter House during a party hosted by USC Mu Theta.  Plaintiff is not alleging that her injuries  were proximately caused by Peter Hwang’s intoxication.  Plaintiff alleges that Hwang was sober.  (SAC, ¶35; Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of  Disputed Material Facts ISO of Plaintiff’s Opposition, Plaintiff’s Additional  Material Facts in Dispute (“AMF”) No. 50.)                  Defendant relies entirely on two  cases to argue that “social host” immunity applies here:  Allen v. Liberman (2014) 227  Cal.App.4th 46 and Hernandez v. Modesto Portuguese Pentecost Assoc.  (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1274.  Both Allen  and Hernandez are factually inapposite.   In Allen, the person injured was the intoxicated person and her  injuries were due to her intoxication.  (Allen,  supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 49-50.)   In Hernandez, the intoxicated person injured third-person  passengers in his car when he drove while intoxicated.  (Hernandez, supra, 40  Cal.App.4th at 1276.)  Here, Plaintiff  was intoxicated and suffered injuries after allegedly being raped by Defendant  Peter Hwang, who was sober.  To the  extent Plaintiff argues she was raped because of her own intoxication from  alcohol provide by Defendants, Defendant fails to cite any case that would  approximate this theory of liability.                 Plaintiff denies that she is seeking  to impose liability on Defendant based on her own intoxication.  Even if Plaintiff’s theory of negligence  liability included the proposition that she would not have been raped had  Defendants not furnished her with alcohol, “social host” immunity would not  completely dispose of Plaintiff’s claims.   Plaintiff is also alleging that her injuries were the result of Peter  Hwang raping her while he was completely sober and he could only do so due to  the inadequate security provided by Defendants and the dangerous environment  created by multiple conditions allowed to exist on the premises, including  service of alcohol to minors who were clearly intoxicated. (SAC, ¶50.) Thus,  even if Plaintiff were taking the position that Hwang’s rape of her was  proximately caused by her own intoxication, it is only one part of her theory  of negligence and Defendant’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication based  on “social host immunity” would still be denied.                          In addition, an exception to “social  host” immunity exists in the case of persons who knowingly furnish alcohol “at  his or her residence to a person whom he or she knows, or should have known, to  be under 21 years of age, in which case, notwithstanding subdivision (b), the  furnishing of the alcoholic beverage may be found to be the proximate case of  resulting injuries or death.”  (Civil  Code §1714(d)(1).)  Here, Plaintiff was  undisputedly a minor when she was served alcohol at the party.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed  Material Facts, SSUMF No. 1.)  Defendant  does not dispute Plaintiff’s allegations that she was visibly impaired due to  intoxication or that Defendant should have had measures in place to prevent  service of alcohol to minors, such as wristbands distinguishing patrons of  legal drinking age from those who were below the legal drinking age, which The  Perfect Event was hired to provide if necessary.  (SAC, ¶¶50, 120.)                 For these reasons, Defendant’s  motion for summary judgment of the complaint or summary adjudication of  Plaintiff’s causes of action based on “social host” immunity is denied.  Defendant fails to establish as an issue of  law that the immunity applies.     E.     However, the  undisputed facts negate any general duty of care owed by Defendant SAM, Inc. to  Plaintiff   1.     General Law  of Negligence                          “To establish a cause of action for  negligence, the plaintiff must show that the “defendant had a duty to use due  care, that he breached that duty, and that the breach was the proximate or  legal cause of the resulting injury.   Recovery for negligence depends as a threshold matter on the existence  of a legal duty of care.”  (Brown v.  USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213.)   “Whether a duty exists is a question of law to be resolved by the  court.”  (Id.)               Civil Code §1714(a) provides:  “Everyone is responsible ... for an injury occasioned to another by his or her  want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or  person ....”  This statute establishes  the default rule that each person has a duty “to exercise, in his or her  activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.” (Brown, supra,  11 Cal.5th at 213-214.)                “Section 1714 states a broad rule,  but it has limits. We have explained that the law imposes a general duty of  care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has created a risk of  harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant is responsible for making  the plaintiff's position worse.”  (Id.  at 214.)   2.     No direct  ownership, possession or control of the Chapter house where the party was held  and Plaintiff was allegedly raped                          Defendant negates Plaintiff’s  allegation that it owned, managed or controlled the premises where the party  was held or the conditions under which the party was held.  The party where Plaintiff was allegedly raped  was held by USC Mu Theta at the Chapter House.   Defendant submits evidence that the Chapter House is owned by Defendant  SAM USC Housing, LLC.  (Defendant’s RJN,  A. Huston Dec. ISO of Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendants' SAM Property  Management, LLC, et al., Exhibit 1, ¶12.)   Defendant submits evidence that USC Mu Theta leased the Chapter House  from SMA USC Housing, LLC.  (Id.  at 15.)  Defendant submits evidence that  it had no notice of the party held by USC Mu Theta on January 25 or 26, 2020  where Plaintiff was allegedly raped, nor was it involved in the planning or  operation of the party.  (A. Huston Dec.  ISO of Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant SAM Inc., ¶2.)  Such functions are handled entirely by the  local chapter without any involvement by the national fraternity organization,  Defendant SAM Inc.  (Id. at ¶¶2 and  3.)  Defendant SAM Inc. submits evidence  that it is an entirely separate legal entity from USC Mu Theta and the other  entity Defendants.  (Defendant’s RJN, A.  Huston Dec. ISO of Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendants' SAM Property  Management, LLC, et al., Exhibit 1, ¶¶2-6.)                  The relationship between SAM Inc.  and local chapters like USC Mu Theta is memorialized in the document entitled  “Definition of the Relationship Between Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity and Chapters  of Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity.”   (Defendant’s RJN, A. Huston Dec. ISO of Motion for Summary Judgment of  Defendants' SAM Property Management, LLC, et al., Exhibit 1, ¶5, Exhibit  1.)  The document specifically states  that SAM Inc. provides “education” and “advice” to local chapters, but it  recognizes that each local chapter is “an unincorporated association” and a  “separate legal entity” from SAM Inc.  (Id.  at  SAM 000872.)  The document also states that SAM Inc. “does  not undertake to assume responsibility for actions or conduct of the Chapter or  its members” and it “does not, and cannot, oversee, monitor or control the  Chapter’s activities…”  (Id.)                            Based on Defendant’s evidence, it  did not own, control or possess the Chapter House, SAM USC Housing LLC  did.  Defendant did not control or manage  or in any way oversee the party where Plaintiff was allegedly raped.  Defendant therefore did not owe Plaintiff a  general duty of care based on Civil Code §1714 and any role in creating the  peril that resulted in Plaintiff’s alleged rape.                 In response, Plaintiff fails to  present any evidence that would support imposition of a general duty of care  based on SAM Inc’s ownership, possession or control of the premises..  Plaintiff admits that SAM USC Housing LLC is  the record owner of the Chapter House.   (B. Hill Dec., Ex. 5, Grant Deed to SAM USC Housing LLC.)  Plaintiff also admits that USC Mu Theta is  the entity that leased the Chapter House from SAM USC Housing LLC.  (H. Johns Dec., Ex. 37, SAM USC Housing, LLC  Lease Agreement with Mu Theta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity.)  Based on Plaintiff’s own evidence, legal  ownership is therefore vested in SAM USC Housing LLC, while USC Mu Theta is the  only tenant on the lease.                 Plaintiff’s evidence also fails to  raise a triable issue as to whether Defendant had control over the  premises.  “A defendant need not own,  possess and control property in order to be held liable; control alone is sufficient.”  (Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th  1149, 1163.)  Plaintiff cites to the  Lease Agreement between USC Mu Theta and SAM USC Housing LLC which allows SAM  Inc. and SAM USC Housing LLC together a limited right of entry.  (Plaintiff’s AMF No. 134.)  The Lease Agreement also states that the  property can be used for SAM Inc. activities.   (Id. at No. 158.)  These two facts  alone do not establish “control” over the property for purposes of premises  liability given that Defendant SAM Inc. was not the legal owner or the named  tenant on the Lease Agreement.  There is  no evidence that would establish SAM Inc.’s control over the premises based on  its limited right of entry or what appears to be a restriction on the types of  activities USC Mu Theta could allow on the premises without SAM USC Housing  LLC’s preapproval.                 Plaintiff argues SAM Inc. controls  the property because it controls SAM USC Housing LLC.  Plaintiff argues the sole member of SAM USC  Housing is SAM National Properties and Defendant SAM Inc. is the sole member of  SAM National Properties.  (B. Hill Dec.,  Ex. 7, Statement of Information of SAM USC Housing LLC; Johns Dec., Ex. 36,  Declaration of Sole Member of SAM National Properties, LLC.)  Absent evidence to support alter ego , SAM  Inc.’s status as the sole member of the LLC that is the sole member of the LLC  that owns the Chapter House, does not make SAM Inc. the owner of the Chapter  House, nor does it make SAM Inc. liable for the debts and obligations of SAM  National Properties, LLC, SAM National Properties, LLC liable for the debts and  obligations of SAM USC Housing LLC or SAM Inc. liable for the debts and  obligations of SAM USC Housing, LLC.   (Corp. C. §17703.04(a)(“all debts, obligations, or other liabilities of  a limited liability company, whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise:  (1) They are solely the debts, obligations, or other liabilities of the limited  liability company to which the debts, obligations, or other liabilities relate.  (2) They do not become the debts, obligations, or other liabilities of a  member…solely be reason of the member acting as a member or manager acting as a  manager for the limited liability company.”)      F.      No basis to  impose alter ego               “To succeed on their alter ego  claim, plaintiffs must be able to show: (1) such a unity of interest and  ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that no separation  actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts in question are  treated as those of the corporation alone.”   (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 417.)                “Several factors are to be  considered in applying the doctrine; among them are: commingling of funds and  other assets…the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation as  his own…sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by one individual  or the members of a family; the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation;  the total absence of corporate assets, and undercapitalization; the use of a  corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or  the business of an individual or another corporation…the disregard of legal  formalities and the failure to maintain arm's length relationships among  related entities…the diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a  stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment of creditors…the  contracting with another with intent to avoid performance by use of a corporate  entity as a shield against personal liability, or the use of a corporation as a  subterfuge of illegal transactions…This long list of factors is not exhaustive.  The enumerated factors may be considered among others under the particular  circumstances of each case.”  (Id.  at 417–418.)                “Critically, no single factor is  determinative, and instead a court must examine all the circumstances to  determine whether to apply the doctrine.   There is no litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be  pierced; rather the result will depend on the circumstances of each particular  case.  Because it is founded on equitable  principles, application of the alter ego is not made to depend upon prior  decisions involving factual situations which appear to be similar.  It is the general rule that the conditions  under which a corporate entity may be disregarded vary according to the  circumstances of each case.”  (JPV I  L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 172, 195.)  The “alter EGO inquiry may, in appropriate  circumstances, focus narrowly on certain inequitable uses of the corporate from  for specific purposes.”  (Id.)  In determining whether to apply alter ego,  the court must consider “all the circumstances relevant to the alter ego  inquiry.”  (Id. at 196.)                Plaintiff submits undisputed evidence of the  following in support of alter ego:  (1)  Defendant SAM Inc.’s status as the sole member of the LLC that is the sole  member of the owner of the Chapter House (Plaintiff’s Exhibits 36, 44 and 45) ;  (2) Defendant SAM Inc. and SAM USC Housing LLC had a limited right of entry  into the Chapter House with 24-hours’ notice “for the purpose of regularly  scheduled period inspection or repair…or to show the Chapter House to  prospective tenants” (Plaintiff’s AMF No. 63); (3) SAM National Properties, SAM  Property Management and SAM USC Housing’s status as named insureds on SAM  Inc.’s insurance policy (Plaintiff’s AMF No. 157); (4) SAM Inc., SAM Property  Management and SAM USC Housing all use the same email server (Plaintiff’s AMF  No. 148); and (5) these same entities share the same office address and website  address (Plaintiffs’ AMF Nos. 1 and 2).                 These additional facts do not  establish commingling of funds and assets of the two entities, one entity being  liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership, inadequate  capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of  corporate records, and more.  If  anything, the undisputed evidence establishes that Defendant SAM Inc. has  maintained corporate formalities and a separate legal existence from the other  entity Defendants.  (Defendant’s RJN, A.  Huston Dec. ISO of Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendants' SAM Property  Management, LLC, et al., ¶¶1-16, Exhibit 1, ¶5, Exhibit 1; B. Hill Dec., Exs. 5  and 7; H. Johns Dec., Exs. 36 and 37)                 Plaintiff also fails to present any  evidence from which the Court could find an inequitable result if the separate  existence of these Defendants were honored.   Alter ego does not require a showing that the use of the corporate form  was a “sham, in bad faith, or intended to defraud.”  (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88  Cal.App.5th 172 at 199.)  “[C]ourts may  ignore the corporate entity under the alter ego doctrine when the corporate  form is used to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some  other wrongful or inequitable purpose.”   (Id.)  The mere fact that a  corporate entity is a “real business with real purpose and assets and not a  sham corporate entity formed for the purpose of committing a fraud or other  misdeeds” does not preclude application of alter ego.  Such a “narrow formulation of the doctrine  based on the purposes of the corporate entity’s formation” is a  “misunderstanding of the applicable law.”   (Id.)                The “inequitable result” prong of  alter ego requires a “finding that the facts are such that adherence to the  fiction of the separate existence of the corporation would sanction a fraud or  promote injustice.  The test for this  requirement is that if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone,  it will produce an unjust or inequitable result.  An inequitable result does not require a  wrongful intent.”  (Id. at  200.)  While inability to collect alone  does not satisfy the inequitable result prong, “inability to collect combined  with other factors indicating inequitable uses of the corporate form, may  justify the unjust result element for alter ego liability.”  (Id.)               Plaintiff’s evidence does not  support a finding of inequitable result.   Plaintiff presents no evidence that the structure of Defendant SAM Inc.  and the affiliated entities was created to “perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a  statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose.”                 Plaintiff also fails to submit any  evidence rebutting Defendant SAM Inc.’s showing that   the entity Defendants, including USC Mu  Theta, the entity that hosted the party or SAM USC Housing LLC, the owner of  the property where the property was held, were not its alter ego or its agent  when the party was held or in leasing and occupying the Chapter House.  In fact, the Lease Agreement submitted by  Plaintiff as Plaintiff’s Exhibit 37 to the Johns Declaration contains an  express disclaimer of agency:  “No Agency:  [USC Mu Theta] and its members understand and  agree that neither Chapter nor any Member is any way an agent of [SAM USC  Housing, LLC] or [SAM Inc.].  [USC Mu  Theta] and each Member hereby agree that under no circumstances will any of  them represent themselves as an agent of [SAM USC Housing, LLC] or [SAM  Inc.].”  (H. Johns Dec., Ex. 37, SAM USC  Housing, LLC Lease Agreement with Mu Theta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu  Fraternity.)                 Based on the undisputed facts,  Defendant SAM Inc. did not owe Plaintiff a general duty of care (1) based on  ownership, possession or control of the Chapter House, (2) as the alter ego of  either USC Mu Theta, SAM USC Housing, LLC or the other entity Defendants, or  (3) based on vicarious liability as the principal of agents USC Mu Theta, SAM  USC Housing, LLC or other entity Defendants.   Plaintiff does not raise a triable issue of fact on these issues.   G.    Defendant did  not have a special relationship with USC Mu Theta or Plaintiff that would  impose a duty of care on Defendant to Plaintiff   1.     Applicable  Law                          Ordinarily, there is no duty to  protect others from third party criminal activity.  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005)  36 Cal.4th 224, 241)  However, such a  duty has been recognized where there is a special relationship with the injured  party, such as business proprietors and their patrons.  (Id.)                             “In a case involving harm caused by  a third party, a person may have an affirmative duty to protect the victim of  another's harm if that person is in what the law calls a ‘special relationship’  with either the victim or the person who created the harm.  A special relationship between the defendant  and the victim is one that ‘gives the victim a right to expect’ protection from  the defendant, while a special relationship between the defendant and the  dangerous third party is one that entails an ability to control the third  party’s conduct.  Relationships between  parents and children, colleges and students, employers and employees, common  carriers and passengers, and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of special  relationships that give rise to an affirmative duty to protect.  The existence of such a special relationship  puts the defendant in a unique position to protect the plaintiff from injury.  The law requires the defendant to use this position accordingly.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th 204,  216.)                 “The key in each special  relationship is that the defendant's relationship with the tortfeasor places  the defendant in the best position to protect against the risk of harm.  Thus, the defendant's ability to control the  person who caused the harm must be such that if exercised, it would  meaningfully reduce the risk of the harm that actually occurred.”  (Id. at 1092 (citing Barenborg v.  Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 70, 78).)   2.     Defendant SAM  Inc. did not have a special relationship with USC Mu Theta                                      Plaintiff alleges that Defendant SAM  Inc. had a special relationship with USC Mu Theta based on purely on its status  as a local chapter of SAM Inc.  The  identical argument was raised by the plaintiff in Barenborg and rejected  by the Court of Appeals.  For the same  reason, the undisputed evidence negates any allegation of a special  relationship between Defendant SAM Inc. and USC Mu Theta.  The undisputed evidence discussed above  demonstrates that Defendant SAM Inc. did not control the day to day activities  of USC Mu Theta, nor was USC Mu Theta its alter ego or agent.                 As explained in Barenborg,  the mere fact that a national fraternity organization might have disciplinary  powers to suspend or revoke a local chapter’s membership does not establish the  requisite day-to-day control over the local chapter to impose a special  relationship between the national fraternal organization and the local  chapter.  (Barenborg, supra,  33 Cal.App.5th at 80-81 (plaintiff injured when pushed off an elevated dance  platform at party held by local chapter of defendant national fraternity  organization; no special relationship existed between national fraternal  organization and local chapter to support an affirmative duty to use reasonable  care to protect from harm.)                 Like SAM Inc., the defendant in Barenborg  did not own or possess the chapter’s house and “regardless of its policies and  disciplinary powers, respondent was unable to monitor and control Cal. Gamma’s  day-to-day operations, and it thus owed no duty to protect appellant from Cal.  Gamma’s conduct.”  (Id. at  81.)  Plaintiff cites as additional facts  the protocols regarding use of its branding and interactions with the  media.  (Plaintiffs’ AMF Nos. 109-120.)  Again, apart from post-violation discipline,  this does not establish control over day-to-day operations of USC Mu Theta or  control over some aspect of USC Mu Theta’s operations that impacted the  party.                 Likewise, the fact that SAM Inc.  listed Defendants SAM National Properties, SAM Property Management and SAM USC  Housing as additional insureds does not establish control over the daily  operations of USC Mu Theta.  (Plaintiffs’  AMF No. 157.)  Insurance coverage does  not establish decision making authority over daily operations, nor does it  establish SAM Inc.’s control over the property.   (Barenborg, supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 83 (no authority for  the proposition that party’s procurement of insurance establishes control over  the party’s premises).)  Coverage merely  reflects the possible risk that SAM Inc. will be sued given its affiliations  with entity Defendants and is not a measure of daily control.                 Plaintiff is in precisely the same  position as the plaintiff in Barenborg.   There is simply no evidence of day-to-day control of operations that  would have given SAM Inc. the power to prevent Plaintiff’s injury.     3.     Defendant did  not have a special relationship with Plaintiff                          Plaintiff also maintains Defendant  SAM Inc. had a special relationship with her such that it had an affirmative  duty to protect her from third party criminal acts like Hwang’s.  (SAC, ¶94.)   Plaintiff alleges a special relationship based on her status as an  invitee to the party held by USC Mu Theta.   For the reasons discussed above, Defendant SAM Inc. was not involved in  organizing the party nor are there any facts or evidence that would make it  responsible for the party.  Defendant  SAM, Inc. also did not have possession, ownership or control of the property,  as discussed in connection with the existence of a general duty of care.         H.    Defendant did  not voluntarily assume a duty of care of Plaintiff             “To establish a duty of care to a  third person based on the negligent undertaking doctrine, a plaintiff must  show: (1) the defendant undertook to render services to another; (2) the  services were of the kind the defendant should have recognized as necessary for  the protection of third persons; and (3) either (a) the defendant's failure to  exercise reasonable care increased the risk of harm beyond what existed without  the undertaking, (b) the undertaking was to perform a duty owed by the other to  the third persons, or (c) a harm was suffered because the other or third  persons relied on the undertaking.”  (Barenborg,  supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 83–84.)                 Defendant also establishes that it  did not assume any duty of care to Plaintiff.   It was not involved in holding the party or the day-to-day operations of  USC Mu Theta.  Defendant’s issuance of  regulations and protocols do not amount to assumption of a duty of care to  prevent third party criminal conduct at parties.  (Id.)   I.       Based on the  undisputed facts, Defendant did not commit malice, fraud or oppression under  Civil Code §3294               “In an action for the breach of an  obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages  for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  (CC §3294(a).)               “‘Malice’ means conduct which is  intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable  conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious  disregard of the rights or safety of others.”   (CC §3294(c)(1).)  “‘Oppression’  means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in  conscious disregard of that person's rights.”   (CC §3294(c)(2).)                “In the usual case, the question of  whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is  for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar  circumstances of each case.  But the  issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher  proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a  stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case  for punitive damages at summary judgment.   However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear  and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into  account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,  since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be  necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary  standard.  Summary judgment on the issue  of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's  evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court  (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and Electric Company v.  Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158–1159.)  As the party moving for adjudication of  Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim, Defendant bears the initial burden of  production on Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)                 Defendant did not owe Plaintiff a  duty of care as a matter of law as discussed above.  As such, Plaintiff’s underlying causes of  action for negligence, negligent hiring, premises liability and NIED fail as a  matter of law.  Because the underlying  causes of action against Defendant fail, the punitive damages claim fails as  well.               Based on the undisputed evidence,  Defendant SAM Inc. was not involved in arranging or holding the party where  Hwang allegedly raped Plaintiff due to negligent security, including the  failure to monitor of alcohol consumption by underaged partygoers.  SAM Inc. was not the property owner, nor did  it control or possess the premises.  At  best it was a passive affiliate of the sole member of the owner of the  premises, and the national fraternal organization that licensed its marks to a  local chapter subject to certain rules and guidelines and that lacked any  control over the day-to day activities of local chapters.  These actions do not qualify as malice,  oppression or fraud under Civil Code §3294 as a matter of law.  Plaintiff therefore also fails to raise a  triable issue of fact her punitive damages claim against SAM Inc.      III. DISPOSITION               Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.’s Motion for  Summary Judgment is GRANTED.07/30/2024Dept. 73Rolf M. Treu, Judge presiding JANE DOE v. SIGMA ALPHA MU, et al. ([21STCV46495]) Counsel for  Plaintiff/opposing party:             Hillary  JohnsCounsel for  Defendants/moving party:          Mary Childs and Patrick Ball of Yoka  & Smith, LLP MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN the  ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 02/02/2024) TENTATIVE RULING Defendants SAM Property Management, LLC (“SAM PM”), SAM National  Properties, LLC (“SAM National”) and SAM USC Housing, LLC (“SAM USC”)’s Motion  for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff  Jane Doe was allegedly raped by Defendant Peter Hwang at a fraternity party  held by Defendant Mu Theta Chapter at University of Southern California (“USC  Mu Theta Chapter”) at the Mu Theta Chapter House on January 25 or 26, 2020.  The rape allegedly took place in the  gymnasium located inside the Chapter House.   Defendant Mu Theta Chapter hired Defendant The Perfect Event, Inc. to  provide certain services at the party, including security.  Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.,  SAM National Properties, LLC, SAM USC Housing, LLC and SAM Property Management,  LLC are entities affiliated with Defendant USC Mu Theta Chapter.   On December  21, 2021, Plaintiff filed this action naming Defendants.  The operative complaint is the Second Amended  Complaint alleging (1) negligence; (2) negligence-premises liability; (3)  negligent hiring, supervision and retention; (4) negligence (the Perfect  Event); (5) negligent hiring, supervision (The Perfect Event); (6) negligent  security; (7) assault; (8) battery; (9) NIED; (10) IIED.   On February 2, 2024, Defendants SAM Property Management, LLC (“SAM PM”),  SAM National Properties, LLC (“SAM National”) and SAM USC Housing, LLC (“SAM  USC”) filed the Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Motion or  Summary Adjudication currently before the Court, arguing:·                  Defendants moves for summary judgment  based on Civil Code §1714(c) and Business and Professions Code §25602(b).  Defendants argue the “social host immunity”  or “dram shop immunity” created under Civil Code §1714(c) and Business and  Professions Code §25602(b) apply to Plaintiff’s complaint against them.  Defendants argue Plaintiff is alleging that  Defendants negligently supervised and failed to control the actions of Mu Theta  on the night of the incident.  Defendants  argue existing case law holds that the social host immunity applies to them,  because they are merely the property owners and/or managers of the premises  where Mu Theta held its party.   Defendants argue none of them knew that the party was going to take place,  nor did they know that alcohol was going to be provided to minors.  Defendants argue there is also no evidence  that they ever affirmatively provided Plaintiff or anyone else with alcohol.  ·                  Defendants argue Plaintiff’s  negligence-based claims fail, because they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care  under these facts.  Defendants argue they  did not have any duty to have proper safety protocols in place to prevent  underage alcohol consumption and drug use, to have a responsible bartender in  place to ensure that there was no underage drinking, to have security in place  checking identification at the door of the party and to make sure that the door  to the gym was locked.  Defendants argue  they had no duty to do any of these things because they had no knowledge or  notice that Mu Theta was even hosting a social function on the night of the  incident.  Defendants argue they are only  liable for dangerous conditions of the property that could have been discovered  by reasonable inspection.  ·                  Defendants argue none of them had  anything to do with Mu Theta or the Chapter House.  Defendants argue they were the entities that  located and acquired the property and the owners and property managers of the  property.  ·                  Defendants argue that even if they knew  of Mu Theta’s party, they had no responsibility to supervise or control what  occurred during that party.  Defendants  argue they had no knowledge or notice that Mu Theta’s members intended to break  the law on the night of the incident or that Hwang had any proclivity for  raping young women.  ·                  Defendants argue the dangerous condition  that allegedly injured Plaintiff was not a standing condition of the property  that Defendants failed to repair.   Defendants argue the dangerous condition was something created during  the course of one evening.  ·                  Defendants argue they did not have any  duty of care to Plaintiff for the independent reason that Hwang’s alleged  assault of Plaintiff was not reasonably foreseeable.  Defendants argue that in cases involving  third party criminal conduct, a plaintiff must demonstrate a heightened degree  of foreseeability in order to impose a duty of care.  Defendants argue there is no evidence that  would support a finding of heightened foreseeability that an attack of the type  suffered by Plaintiff would occur at the premises.  ·                  Defendants argue Plaintiff also cannot  rely on alter ego to hold them liable for the acts or omissions of Mu Theta or  Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.   Defendants argue they have maintained corporate formalities, do not  commingle assets, maintain their own bank accounts, and SAM USC is the only  entity with an ownership interest in the property.  Defendants argue there will be no fraud or  injustice if alter ego is not applied.  ·                  Defendants argue Plaintiff’s punitive  damages claim also fails as a matter of law.   Defendants argue the evidence establishes that they had nothing to do  with the incident.  Defendants argue the  undisputed evidence demonstrates that they did not know Hwang, had never met  him and had no idea he had any inclination to abuse women or was otherwise a  danger to the public.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:·                  Defendants dram shop immunity arguments  fail.  Plaintiff argues dram shop  immunity is intended immunize those who supply alcohol from liability for  injuries suffered by the consumer of the alcohol or by a third person injured  by the consumer’s consumption of alcohol.   Plaintiff argues she is alleging injury at the hands of a completely  sober individual, Hwang. Plaintiff argues the case law relied upon by  Defendants for application of dram shop immunity is factually  distinguishable.  Plaintiff argues the  immunity was not intended to apply to situations like hers.  Plaintiff argues moving Defendants are  involved in the ownership, management, control and operation of the property,  where the tenants continuously have events at the location.  ·                  Plaintiff  argues Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty of care.  Plaintiff argues moving Defendants are part  of an investment scheme whereby participants in the scheme obtain profits from  the property.  Plaintiff argues each of  the moving Defendants is a named insured on Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu  Fraternity, Inc.’s insurance policy, which insured against known risks of  physical and sexual assaults and violations of fraternity alcohol  policies.  Plaintiff argues Defendants  are so interrelated as to be part of the same venture, investment, business and  scheme.  ·                  Plaintiff  argues landowners and managers of property have a nondelegable duty of care in  managing the property.  Plaintiff argues  Defendants are subject to this duty of care, because (1) SAM USC owned the  subject property; (2) SAM PM was contract for and employed to manage the  property and there is a statement in discovery that it had an ownership  interest; and (3) SAM National was the member of SAM USC.·                  Plaintiff  argues moving Defendants owed her a duty of care, because the risk she  encountered was foreseeable. Plaintiff argues that the especial relationship  between owners or occupiers of real property and a person injured by the  wrongful conduct of a third person requires that there be some connection  between the harm suffered by the injured person and the actual condition of  property or an activity being conduct on the property.  Plaintiff argues Defendants were required to  act reasonably in the management of the property and whether Defendants had  reason to anticipate the probability of the type of injury suffered by  Plaintiff.·                  Plaintiff  argues issues such as alcohol at parties, illegal drug use, slip and falls and  sexual assaults are known risks.   Plaintiff argues it is precisely because such risks were known risks  that Defendants have a Risk Management Policy promulgated by SAM Inc.  Plaintiff argues sexual assaults are also a  foreseeable risk at fraternity parties.   Plaintiff argues case law in California and outside of California has  acknowledged that partygoers at fraternity parties risk injury to themselves  and to others. Plaintiff argues the risk of sexual assault specifically is a  reasonably foreseeable danger at fraternity parties.  Plaintiff argues Defendants failed to  maintain the property in a reasonable manner to prevent sexual assault,  including failure to maintain adequate lighting and security, failure to manage  the property and in delegating non-delegable duties to tenants.  ·                  Plaintiff  argues there need not have been prior sexual assaults to establish that her  injury due to third party criminal conduct was reasonably foreseeable.  Plaintiff argues there need only have been  prior similar acts, for example prior physical assaults.  ·                  Plaintiff  argues the interconnectedness of Defendants is sufficient to apply alter ego,  making each of them liable for the acts and omissions of the other.  Plaintiff argues the entities share the same  business, address, same emails, same website and their investors are  interrelated.  Plaintiff argues the  moving Defendants use an employee of SAM Inc. to do their accounting, taxes and  bills.  Plaintiff argues that level of  interrelatedness is sufficient to apply alter ego.·                  Plaintiff  argues moving Defendants and Defendant SAM Inc. bought a party house for  Defendant Mu Theta knowing the risks at fraternity parties.  Plaintiff argues moving Defendants and  Defendant SAM Inc. gave Mu Theta the proverbial gun.  Plaintiff argues moving Defendants acted with  conscious disregard of her rights and despicably.  Plaintiff argues she need not identify a  specific officer who ratified or authorized the conduct.  In reply, Defendant argues,·                  Defendants argue the “social host”  immunity applies.  Defendants argue  Plaintiff’s complaint is replete with allegations that it was Plaintiff’s  intoxication that resulted in Hwang raping her.   Defendants argue Plaintiff is also claiming negligence based on  Defendants’ failure to implement reasonable measures to prevent underaged  drinking.  Defendants argue social host  immunity applies to liability arising from failure to supervise minors who  suffer injuries due to intoxication from alcohol on the premises.  ·                  Defendants also argue the Rowland factors  do not support imposition of a duty of care under these facts, because (1) they  had no actual notice of a dangerous condition on the night of the incident and  (2) the sexual assault of Plaintiff was no reasonably foreseeable to moving  Defendants given their respective, limited roles. Defendants argue that it is  reasonably foreseeable that college kids host parties, tend to drink to excess  at the parties and that bad things like broken bones and sexual assaults can happen  at these parties.  Defendants argue this  is insufficient to make property owners, managers and investors the insurers of  the safety of third parties who enter the property.  ·                  Defendants argue Plaintiff relies on a  Maine case involving a plaintiff who was sexually assaulted at a fraternity  party.  Defendant argues the Maine case  is out of state authority and is not controlling.  Moreover, the Maine case found that the  entity that leased the property to the local fraternity chapter did not owe the  victim a duty of care.  ·                  Defendants argue the opinions of Luis  Oliver, Plaintiff’s expert, are objectionable and should be stricken.  Defendants argue his opinions do not create  any triable issue of fact, because they lack foundation.  Defendants argue Oliver provides inadmissible  opinions regarding issues of law and he draws legal conclusions.  ·                  Defendants argue “interconnectedness” is  not the standard to apply alter ego.   Defendants argue Plaintiff has not satisfied the standards to apply  alter ego.  Defendants argue that even if  the alter ego requirements were satisfied, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that  any fraud or injustice would result if Defendants’ separate corporate  existences were recognized.    II. ANALYSIS A.     Legal  Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment            A motion for summary judgment or adjudication  provides “courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in  order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact  necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  It must be granted “if all the evidence  submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and  uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119 [quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c)].)               “A plaintiff or cross-complainant  has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of  action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling  the party to judgment on the cause of action.   Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden  shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one  or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense  thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §437c, subd.  (p)(1).)             “A party is entitled to summary  judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing there are no triable  issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  This is true even if the opposing party fails to file any opposition.  The court's assessment of whether the moving  party has carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the  court's evaluation of the opposing party's papers.  Therefore, the burden on the motion does not  initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the opposing  papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty  Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 [landlord’s failure to  address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing  operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party failed  to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue]; Thatcher v. Lucky Stores,  Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot grant summary  judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the  moving party has satisfied its burden].)              In addition, the evidence and  affidavits of the moving party are construed strictly, while those of the  opponent are liberally read.  (Government  Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All doubts as to the propriety of granting  the motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil  Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion  (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).”  (Hamburg  v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.) B.     Evidentiary  Objections             Plaintiff’s Objections to Wright  Dec.—OVERRULE.               Plaintiff’s Objections to Huston  Dec.—OVERRULE.               Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections  to Oliver Dec.—SUSTAIN C.     Request for  Judicial Notice             Plaintiff’s RJN of various corporate  filings by Defendants, Defendants’ pleadings, Defendants’ Trademark  Registrations is granted as to their filing.    D.     As discussed  in connection with the Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant SAM Inc.,  Moving Defendants fail to establish that they are entitled to summary judgment  or adjudication based on the immunity created under Civil Code §1714(c) and  Business and Professions Code §25602 1.     Applicable  Law                        “Except as provided in subdivision  (d), no social host who furnishes alcoholic beverages to any person may be held  legally accountable for damages suffered by that person, or for injury to the  person or property of, or death of, any third person, resulting from the  consumption of those beverages.”  (Civil  Code §1714(c).)              “Nothing in subdivision (c) shall  preclude a claim against a parent, guardian, or another adult who knowingly  furnishes alcoholic beverages at his or her residence to a person whom he or  she knows, or should have known, to be under 21 years of age, in which case,  notwithstanding subdivision (b), the furnishing of the alcoholic beverage may  be found to be the proximate cause of resulting injuries or death.”  (Civil Code §1714(d).)             “No person who sells, furnishes,  gives, or causes to be sold, furnished, or given away, any alcoholic beverage  pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section shall be civilly liable to any  injured person or the estate of such person for injuries inflicted on that  person as a result of intoxication by the consumer of such alcoholic  beverage.”  (Bus. & Prof. C.  §25602(b).)               “In 1978 the Legislature changed the  nature of tort liability for those who provide alcoholic beverages in a social  setting by granting the furnishers of alcoholic beverages sweeping civil  immunity and imposing sole and exclusive liability upon the consumer of  alcoholic beverages for any injury resulting from the consumer's  intoxication.  It did so by adding  subdivision (c) to section 1714, which provides that ‘no social host who  furnishes alcoholic beverages to any person may be held legally accountable for  damages suffered by that person, or for injury to the person or property of, or  death of, any third person, resulting from the consumption of those  beverages.’”  (Allen v. Liberman  (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 46, 53, 54 (parents and their child who hosted sleepover  were immune from liability pursuant to Civil Code §1714(d) for death of minor  friend who obtained vodka from their open bar without parents’ permission or  knowledge.)               “The Legislature adopted language  expressing its intent that ‘the furnishing of alcoholic beverages is not the  proximate cause of injuries resulting from intoxication....’ (§ 1714, subd.  (b).) Rather, the voluntary consumption of alcohol, and not its furnishing by a  social host, is the proximate cause of injury resulting from the use of  alcohol.”  (Id. at 54.)               “Since 1978, social host immunity  has been interpreted to apply to the failure to supervise individuals who drink  alcohol at social events.  Thus, to the  extent plaintiff's theory of liability rests on defendants' failure to  supervise their guests to whom they had furnished alcohol, defendants are  shielded by immunity.”  (Id. at  55.)   2.     Defendants  fail to establish that “social host” immunity set forth under Civil code  §1714(c) and Business and Professions Code §24602 apply as an issue of law here             Defendants argue they cannot be held  liable for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries, because it is immune from liability  under the “social host” or “dram shop” immunity under Civil Code §1714(c) and  Bus. & Prof. C. §25602.  Plaintiff is  suing for damages resulting from Defendant Peter Hwang’s alleged violent rape  of her in the gymnasium of the Chapter House during a party hosted by USC Mu  Theta.  Plaintiff is not alleging that her  injuries were proximately caused by Peter Hwang’s intoxication.  Plaintiff alleges that Hwang was sober.  (SAC, ¶35; Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of  Disputed Material Facts ISO of Plaintiff’s Opposition, Plaintiff’s Additional  Material Facts in Dispute (“AMF”) No. 50.)                Defendants rely on two cases to  argue that “social host” immunity applies here:   Allen v. Liberman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 46 and Hernandez v.  Modesto Portuguese Pentecost Assoc. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1274.  Both Allen and Hernandez are  factually inapposite.  In Allen, the  person injured due to intoxication was the intoxicated person.  (Allen, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th  at 49-50.)  In Hernandez, the intoxicated  person injured third-person passengers in his car when he drove while  intoxicated.  (Hernandez, supra,  40 Cal.App.4th at 1276.)  Here, Plaintiff  was intoxicated and suffered injuries after allegedly being raped by Defendant  Peter Hwang, who was sober.  To the  extent Plaintiff maintains her intoxication from alcohol furnished by  Defendants was the proximate cause of her injuries at the hands of a third  party, i.e. her rape, Defendant fails to cite any case that would approximate  Plaintiff’s theory of liability.               Plaintiff also denies that she is  seeking to impose liability on Defendants based on her own intoxication.  Even if Plaintiff’s theory of negligence  liability included the proposition that she would not have been raped had  Defendants not furnished her with alcohol, “social host” immunity would not  completely dispose of Plaintiff’s claims.   Plaintiff is also alleging that her injuries were the result of Peter  Hwang raping her while he was completely sober and he could only do so due to  the inadequate security provided by Defendants and the dangerous environment  created by multiple conditions allowed to exist on the premises, including  service of alcohol to minors who were clearly intoxicated. (SAC, ¶50.) Thus,  even if Plaintiff were taking the position that Hwang’s rape of her was  proximately caused by her own intoxication, it is only one part of her theory  of negligence and Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or adjudication based  on “social host immunity” would still be denied.                        In addition, an exception to “social  host” immunity exists in the case of persons who knowingly furnish alcohol “at  his or her residence to a person whom he or she knows, or should have known, to  be under 21 years of age, in which case, notwithstanding subdivision (b), the  furnishing of the alcoholic beverage may be found to be the proximate case of  resulting injuries or death.”  (Civil  Code §1714(d)(1).)  Defendants do not  address this exception.  Here, Plaintiff  was undisputedly a minor when she was served alcohol at the party.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed  Material Facts, SSUMF No. 1.)  Defendants  do not dispute Plaintiff’s allegations that she was visibly impaired due to  intoxication or that Defendants should have had measures in place to prevent  service of alcohol to minors, such as wristbands distinguishing patrons of  legal drinking age from those who were below the legal drinking age, which The  Perfect Event was hired to provide if necessary.  (SAC, ¶¶50, 120.)               For these reasons, Defendants’  motion for summary judgment of the complaint or summary adjudication of  Plaintiff’s causes of action based on “social host” immunity is denied.  Defendant fails to establish as an issue of  law that the immunity applies.   E.     Moving  Defendants did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care to protect against Hwang’s  alleged assault 1.     Landlord’s  duty with respect to third-party criminal acts                        Whether a duty exists is a question  of law for the court's determination.  (Ann  M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679; Castaneda  v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.)   Foreseeability and the extent of the burden to the defendant are  ordinarily the crucial factors in determining duty.  (Ann M., supra, at 679; Casteneda,  supra, at 1213.)  In the context  of duty, foreseeability is a question of law for the court to determine, not  the jury.  (Ann M., supra,  at 679; Ericson, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at 1300.)  To hold otherwise would be clear error.  (Ann M., supra, at 679.)               Ordinarily, there is no duty to  protect others from third party criminal activity.  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill  (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235; Ericson v. Federal Express Corp. (2008) 162  Cal.App.4th 1291, 1300.)  “[T]he law of  negligence in the landlord-tenant context has evolved to impose a duty of  reasonable care on the owner of an apartment building to protect its tenants  from foreseeable third party criminal assaults.”  (Vasquez v. Residential Investments, Inc.  (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 269, 280.)  While  “the modern landlord has a duty to take reasonable precautions against  foreseeable criminal acts, courts have been careful to avoid imposing standards  of conduct which would effectively hold the landlord liable for all crimes  committed on the premises.”  (Rosenbaum  v. Security Pacific Corp. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1095.)  A landlord is not an insurer of public  safety.  (Delgado, supra,  36 Cal.4th at 238.)               To determine duty, a court should  first identify what specific measures the plaintiff claims the defendant should  have taken to prevent the harm. (Hanouchian v. Steele (2020) 51  Cal.App.5th 99, 108.)  Second, the Court  must examine how financially and socially burdensome those proposed measures  would be on a landlord or possessor of property.  (Id.)   And third, what was the third party conduct that the plaintiff claims  the proposed measures could have prevented and how foreseeable was this  conduct. (Id.)  Providing security  guards and vetting attendees are “highly burdensome measures that require a  heightened degree of foreseeability.  (Id.  at 109; Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th 224, 244-266.)                “[I]n the case of criminal conduct by a third  party, an extraordinarily high degree of foreseeability is required to impose a  duty on the landowner, in part because it is difficult if not impossible in  today's society to predict when a criminal might strike.”  (Melton, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th 521,  536.)  “Heightened foreseeability is  satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal incidents (or other  indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in  that location) and does not require a showing of prior nearly identical  criminal incidents.”  (Delgado, supra,  36 Cal.4th at 245.)  In establishing  heightened foreseeability, “defendant's knowledge is critical.”  (Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183  Cal.App.4th 521, 536 (gang shooting at house party where alcohol was served and  invite posted on myspace.com was not highly foreseeable and defendant homeowner  had no duty to prevent unforeseeable third party criminal acts).)  “To establish heightened foreseeability for  third party criminal conduct, our authorities have consistently required actual  knowledge—not constructive, inferential, or knowledge by association—to impose  a burdensome legal duty.”  (Hanouchian  v. Steele (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 99, 111.)   “In each case…the existence and scope of a property owner's duty to  protect against third party crime is a question of law for the court to  resolve.”  (Castaneda, supra, 41  Cal.4th at 1213.)   2.     Defendants  SAM USC and SAM PM’s duty to protect against third party criminal acts as  landlord and property manager                        Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint  proposes that Defendants SAM USC and SAM PM should have implemented the  following security measures to prevent Hwang’s rape:  (1) adequate security guards, training and  measures to prevent use of illegal drugs; (2) implementation of a system to  ensure that minors were not served with alcohol; (3) have a “safety system” in  place for parties; and (4) security outside the gymnasium where Plaintiff was  allegedly raped to prevent access to the gymnasium.  (SAC, ¶¶, 45, 70, 77.)  These proposed security measures are highly  burdensome as an issue of law, particularly given that Defendants SAM USC and  SAM PM are the landlords/property managers of the property, not the hosts of  the party.               Moreover, requiring Defendants to  impose such requirements as a matter of course when leasing the property would  impose a high burden.  Defendants would  have to incorporate such requirements into the lease and they would also have  to implement methods of inspecting for violation of such requirements and  enforcement thereof.  Defendants would  also be involving themselves in the day-to-day activities of a tenant, exposing  them to additional liability.  Such  measures would therefore impose a substantial burden on Defendants as landlord  and property managers.  (Melton, supra,  183 Cal.App.4th at 540 (imposition of guest list as security measure was  burdensome because it would interfere with defendant’s ability to network and  promote his latest endeavor.)               As such, an extremely high degree of  foreseeability is required to impose the duty of care requested by  Plaintiff.  Defendants SAM USC and SAM PM  are the owner/landlord and property manager of the subject property.  (Defendants’ SSUMF Nos. 8, 9, 12, 14-16,  48.)  SAM USC hired SAM PM to manage the  property.  (Defendants’ SSUMF No. 15-17.)  Neither SAM PM nor any SAM PM employee had  any knowledge or notice that Mu Theta intended to host a social function at the  property on January 25, 2020.   (Defendants’ SSUMF No. 25.)  SAM  USC consists of 27 passive investors and is not involved in the day to day  operations, management or control of the property.  (Defendants’ SSUMF Nos. 45-47.)  SAM PM is likewise not obligated to supervise  or control daily activities at the property, nor is Mu Theta, the tenant of the  property, required to notify SAM PM of its activities or social functions.  (Defendants’ SSUMF Nos. 17-19.)  Before the alleged incident, SAM PM did not  know of Peter Hwang, nor did it know of any history of sexual assaults by  him.  (Defendants’ SSUMF No. 32-33.)  Defendant SAM PM also denies any knowledge  that Mu Theta had any reputation for sexual assaults.  (Defendants’ SSUMF No. 34.)              Plaintiff does not dispute these  facts in any material way. Plaintiff disputes whether it is SAM USC or SAM  Property who owns the subject property.   (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, Plaintiff’s Response to SSUMF Nos.  Defendants’ SSUMF Nos. 8, 9, 12, 14-16, 48.)   Plaintiff cites to discovery responses by Mu Theta referring to SAM  Property as the owner.  (Id.)  For purposes of establishing duty, the  analysis is the same whether SAM USC or SAM Property is the owner.                           Based on Defendants’ evidence,  Hwang’s sexual assault was not reasonably foreseeable, much less highly  foreseeable.  Defendants did not know the  party was being held that night and had nothing to do with its operation,  planning or management.  Defendants had  no knowledge of Hwang or any propensity by him for sexual assault.  Based on Defendants’ evidence, it had no  actual knowledge of any facts that would make physical assaults similar to that  suffered by Plaintiff extremely, highly foreseeable.             In fact, Plaintiff’s SAC fails to  allege any prior acts or facts that would make Hwang’s attack extremely, highly  foreseeable, e.g. Defendants’ knowledge of prior similar incidents at the  location.  Plaintiff alleges in the SAC  that (1) Mu Theta Chapter had “issues with inappropriate conduct for underage  drinking or sexual conduct that is considered derogatory towards women and  other students”; (2) it had recently been taken off probation when Plaintiff  was raped; (3) many of the Mu Theta members who were at the party were also  members of Mu Theta when Mu Theta was on probation.  (SAC, ¶61.)   Plaintiff’s allegations of prior bad conduct are not specific and do not  rise to the level of prior incidents similar in kind to her alleged rape by  Hwang.               Plaintiff argues in opposition that  sexual assaults are generally known to be risks of fraternity parties.  A similar argument was raised and rejected in  Hanouchian, which also involved a plaintiff who was physically assault  at a sorority party.   “Respondents’  alleged knowledge of prior incidents at other fraternity parties establishes  only general knowledge of the possibility of violent criminal conduct; it does  not suffice to make it highly foreseeable that a criminal assault would occur  at Respondents’ party.  This sort of  ‘constructive knowledge’ or imputation of foreseeability by ‘common sense’ is  not sufficient to impose, as a legal duty, the burdensome measures Plaintiff  proposes.”  (Hanouchian, supra, 51  Cal.App.5th at 113 (demurrer properly sustained without leave to amend to  complaint based on physical assault at sorority party where complaint failed to  allege facts establishing high degree of foreseeability necessary to impose  highly burdensome measures (employing private security, permitting checks by  university police and vetting attendees) to prevent type of “sudden and  unprovoked third party criminal attack” that occurred.)               Plaintiff also cites to the  testimony of Andrew Huston, executive director and PMK of SAM Inc. as evidence  that sexual assault is a “known risk” of fraternity parties.  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, Additional  Material Fact (“AMF”) No. 42.)  Plaintiff  also cites to SAM Inc.’s Risk Management Policy and insurance policy as  evidence that sexual assault is a “known risk” of fraternity parties.  (Id. at AMF Nos. 34 and 48.)  However, Plaintiff is attempting to impose a  duty on Defendants to protect against third party criminal conduct through  highly burdensome measures.  In such  cases, a duty will not be imposed merely because there was a “known” risk.  Plaintiff must allege and present evidence of  facts, of which Defendants had actual knowledge, establishing an exceptionally  high degree of foreseeability.  Plaintiff  does not allege or provide evidence of prior similar acts of which Defendants  had actual knowledge.               Based on the undisputed facts,  Defendants did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care in preventing Hwang’s alleged  rape at the property.  There is no  evidence that Defendants had actual knowledge of facts making attacks like  Hwang’s highly foreseeable, not merely foreseeable, such as prior similar  attacks at that location or knowledge that Hwang had a propensity for sexual  violence.  Defendants’ Motion for Summary  Judgment is therefore granted as to the entire complaint based on absence of a  duty of care under these circumstances.   F.      No basis to  impose alter ego             Moving Defendants negate the  essential element of duty in each of Plaintiff’s causes of action against  them.  Defendant SAM Inc. also negated  the element of duty in each of Plaintiff’s causes of action against it.  As such, the question of alter ego is moot  and irrelevant.  Even if alter ego  applied, neither Moving Defendants nor SAM Inc. are liable for Plaintiff’s  injuries due to an absence of a duty of care.             However, as discussed in connection  with SAM Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, there is no basis to apply alter  ego to Moving Defendants and SAM Inc.   The same issue was raised in SAM Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment  based on the same evidence.  For the  reasons stated in the Court’s ruling on SAM Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment,  the Court finds there is no basis to apply the alter ego doctrine to Moving  Defendants and SAM Inc.               “To succeed on their alter ego  claim, plaintiffs must be able to show: (1) such a unity of interest and  ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that no separation  actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts in question are  treated as those of the corporation alone.”   (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 417.)              “Several factors are to be  considered in applying the doctrine; among them are: commingling of funds and  other assets…the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation as  his own…sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by one individual  or the members of a family; the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation;  the total absence of corporate assets, and undercapitalization; the use of a  corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or  the business of an individual or another corporation…the disregard of legal  formalities and the failure to maintain arm's length relationships among  related entities…the diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a  stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment of creditors…the  contracting with another with intent to avoid performance by use of a corporate  entity as a shield against personal liability, or the use of a corporation as a  subterfuge of illegal transactions…This long list of factors is not exhaustive.  The enumerated factors may be considered among others under the particular  circumstances of each case.”  (Id.  at 417–418.)              “Critically, no single factor is  determinative, and instead a court must examine all the circumstances to  determine whether to apply the doctrine.   There is no litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be  pierced; rather the result will depend on the circumstances of each particular  case.  Because it is founded on equitable  principles, application of the alter ego is not made to depend upon prior  decisions involving factual situations which appear to be similar.  It is the general rule that the conditions  under which a corporate entity may be disregarded vary according to the  circumstances of each case.”  (JPV I  L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 172, 195.)  The “alter EGO inquiry may, in appropriate  circumstances, focus narrowly on certain inequitable uses of the corporate from  for specific purposes.”  (Id.)  In determining whether to apply alter ego,  the court must consider “all the circumstances relevant to the alter ego  inquiry.”  (Id. at 196.)              Plaintiff’s arguments regarding  “interrelatedness” do not establish commingling of funds and assets of the two  entities, one entity being liable for the debts of the other, identical  equitable ownership, inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate  formalities, lack of segregation of corporate records, and more.  If anything, the undisputed evidence  establishes that Defendant SAM Inc. has maintained corporate formalities and a  separate legal existence from the other entity Defendants.  (Defendant’s RJN, A. Huston Dec. ISO of  Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendants' SAM Property Management, LLC, et  al., ¶¶1-16, Exhibit 1, ¶5, Exhibit 1; B. Hill Dec., Exs. 5 and 7; H. Johns  Dec., Exs. 36 and 37)               Plaintiff also fails to present any  evidence from which the Court could find an inequitable result if the separate  existence of these Defendants were honored.   Alter ego does not require a showing that the use of the corporate form  was a “sham, in bad faith, or intended to defraud.”  (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88  Cal.App.5th 172 at 199.)  “[C]ourts may  ignore the corporate entity under the alter ego doctrine when the corporate  form is used to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some  other wrongful or inequitable purpose.”   (Id.)  The mere fact that a  corporate entity is a “real business with real purpose and assets and not a  sham corporate entity formed for the purpose of committing a fraud or other  misdeeds” does not preclude application of alter ego.  Such a “narrow formulation of the doctrine  based on the purposes of the corporate entity’s formation” is a  “misunderstanding of the applicable law.”   (Id.)              The “inequitable result” prong of  alter ego requires a “finding that the facts are such that adherence to the  fiction of the separate existence of the corporation would sanction a fraud or  promote injustice.  The test for this  requirement is that if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone,  it will produce an unjust or inequitable result.  An inequitable result does not require a  wrongful intent.”  (Id. at  200.)  While inability to collect alone  does not satisfy the inequitable result prong, “inability to collect combined  with other factors indicating inequitable uses of the corporate form, may  justify the unjust result element for alter ego liability.”  (Id.)             Plaintiff’s evidence does not  support a finding of inequitable result.   Plaintiff presents no evidence that the structure of Defendant SAM Inc.  and the affiliated entities was created to “perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a  statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose.”   G.    Defendant SAM  National likewise owed no duty of care to Plaintiff             SAM National does not have any  ownership interest in the property.   (Defendants’ SSUMF No. 44.)  SAM  National’s only member is SAM Inc.  (Plaintiff’s  Separate Statement, AMF No. 63.)   Plaintiff’s only basis to impose a duty of care on SAM National is based  on alter ego and its “interrelatedness” to the SAM USC, SAM PM and Defendant  SAM Inc.  In light of the Court’s ruling  that none of these entities owed Plaintiff a duty of care, Plaintiff’s claims  against Defendant SAM National also fail based on an absence of any duty of  care.   H.    Based on the  undisputed facts, Defendants did not commit malice, fraud or oppression under  Civil Code §3294             “In an action for the breach of an  obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages  for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  (CC §3294(a).)             “‘Malice’ means conduct which is  intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable  conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious  disregard of the rights or safety of others.”   (CC §3294(c)(1).)  “‘Oppression’  means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in  conscious disregard of that person's rights.”   (CC §3294(c)(2).)              “In the usual case, the question of  whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is  for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar  circumstances of each case.  But the  issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher  proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a  stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case  for punitive damages at summary judgment.   However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear  and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into  account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,  since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be  necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary  standard.  Summary judgment on the issue  of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's  evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court  (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and Electric Company v.  Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158–1159.)  As the party moving for adjudication of  Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim, Defendant bears the initial burden of  production on Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)               For the reasons discussed above,  Defendants did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care with respect to Hwang’s alleged  rape as a matter of law.  As such,  Plaintiff’s underlying causes of action for negligence, negligent hiring,  premises liability and NIED fail as a matter of law.  Because the underlying causes of action  against Defendant fail, the punitive damages claim fails as well.             Based on the undisputed evidence,  Defendants were also not involved in arranging or holding the party where Hwang  allegedly raped Plaintiff due to negligent security, including the failure to  monitor of alcohol consumption by underaged partygoers.  There is no evidence that Defendants had  prior knowledge of any similar incidents at the location or any propensity for  violence by Hwang.  Moving Defendants  were merely a landlord and property manager whose tenant held a fraternity  party where Plaintiff was attacked.  The  mere fact that Moving Defendants were affiliated with the national  organization, SAM Inc. does not change the basic fact that Moving Defendants  were merely the landlord and property manager of the property.  These actions, without more, do not qualify  as malice, oppression or fraud under Civil Code §3294 as a matter of law.  Plaintiff therefore also fails to raise a  triable issue of fact her punitive damages claim against SAM Inc.   III. DISPOSITION             Defendants SAM Property Management, LLC (“SAM PM”), SAM  National Properties, LLC (“SAM National”) and SAM USC Housing, LLC (“SAM  USC”)’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.07/30/2024Dept. 26Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding  DOE v. SIGMA ALPHA MU FRATERNITY, MU  THETA CHAPTER AT UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al. (21STCV46495) Counsel  for Plaintiff:  Hillary Johns (Hillary  Johns, Trial Lawyer) Counsel  for Defendant/Cross-Complainant The Perfect Event/opposing party: Domineh Fazel  (Lewis Brisbois  Bisgaard & Smith LLP) Counsel  for Defendant/Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc./moving party:  Mary Childs(Yoka  Smith LLP) demurrer to FIRST AMENDED CROSS-complaint  (filed by Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. on 4/18/24) TENTATIVE RULING The Court SUSTAINS Cross-Defendant  Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint with 20 days leave to  amend. I. BACKGROUND On  December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant sexual assault action against  Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of  Southern California (“Mu Theta”); Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“SAM”); SAM  National Properties, LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM Property Management, LLC;  JERO Enterprises, Inc., dba Brad Management; and Peter Hwang.  On May  18, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed JERO Enterprises, Inc., dba Brad Management  from the instant action without prejudice. On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the  operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu  Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of Southern California; Sigma Alpha  Mu Fraternity, Inc.; SAM National Properties, LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM  Property Management, LLC; Peter Hwang; and The Perfect Event, Inc.  The  SAC asserts ten causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligence – Premises  Liability, (3) Negligence, (4) Negligent Security, (5) Negligent Hiring,  Supervision, and Retention, (6) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention,  (7) Assault, (8) Battery, (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and  (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. On June 13, 2024, Cross-Complainant  The Perfect Event, Inc. (“TPE”) filed the at issue First Amended cross-complaint  against Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at  University of Southern California.  The First Amended cross-complaint at  issue asserts six causes of action for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2)  Contribution, (3) Apportionment of Fault, (4) Contractual Indemnity, (5) Breach  of Contract, and (6) Declaratory Relief.  On August 1, 2023, Sigma Alpha  Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“SAM”) was named as Moe 1 in the at issue cross-complaint.  A.     Allegations  of the Operative Complaints a.     Second  Amended Complaint The SAC  alleges the following.  “On or about  January 21, 2020, THE PERFECT EVENT entered into a written agreement with SIGMA  ALPHA MU, one of the Defendants herein in which THE PERFECT EVENT agreed to  provide, inter alia, the following services to SIGMA ALPHA MU at MU THETA  CHAPTER’S event scheduled for January 25 and 26, 2020 on the Subject Property  described herein.”  (SAC ¶ 6.)  On January  25, 2020 and January 26, 2020, Plaintiff went to visit a friend at the  University of Southern California (“USC”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff  and her friends pre-partied at student housing which included consuming  alcohol” before heading to a party at Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta  Chapter at University of Southern California’s (“Mu Theta Chapter”) house (the  “Subject Property”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff was visibly intoxicated  and having some difficulty walking correctly before she entered the MU THETA  CHAPTER party on the Subject Property and expressed concern to the attendees  before she entered the Subject Property about whether she was too intoxicated  to attend.”  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff  then went to the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA ALPHA MU on the Subject Property to  attend a party. Plaintiff did not receive a bracelet or any mark which would  indicate that she was underage from individuals at the door of the or at any  time when she was on the Subject Property. The individuals who attended the  party with her were also underage and did not receive any bracelet or any mark  that would indicate that any of them were underage.”  (SAC ¶ 24.)   “At the time that she entered the party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff was  under the age of twenty-one years and a virgin for religious reasons.  Specifically, she had committed to waiting to have sex until she was married.  Even though Plaintiff had previously had boyfriends for more than a year at a  time, she did not have sex, since she was waiting until marriage.”  (SAC ¶  26.)  “At the MU  THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff’s underage friend was  served alcohol by a bartender at the party either hired by the Defendants and  each of them, or assigned by the Defendants and each of them, even though she  already was visibly intoxicated at the time and did not have any identification  to indicate that she was of legal age to consume alcohol.”  (SAC ¶  27.)  “MU THETA CHAPTER members, as well as bartenders, security personnel  and/or property managers and/or their agents on the Subject Property present  saw Plaintiff and her friends being handed and drinking alcohol and some of  their other activities at the party, even though they were underage.”   (SAC ¶ 32.)  “There was a  dance platform during the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property with  several tiers in a poorly lit room. The music was loud and it was difficult to  hear or to ask for assistance of any kind. Plaintiff and her friends were  dancing on the platform and her friends had expressed concern that Plaintiff  would fall or would not be able to navigate or get down from the platform.  There was no security or any individuals present near the platform to ensure  the safety of Plaintiff, her friends, or other guests, attendees, or invitees.  The lighting in the room with the platform was dim making the platform and the  room difficult to navigate. There were bottles of soda and beer on the floor  and strewn about the area as well as cups, plates of food, and other trash or  debris, both on tables and on the floor. There was no clear supervisor, manager  or individual overseeing the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property.  There was no security visible or actively present or monitoring the rooms or areas  in the MU THETA CHAPTER residence on the Subject Property during the event.  Some of the residents at the event were visibly or admittedly intoxicated,  impaired from marijuana use or were either seen or admitted to using or being  involved in illegal recreational drug use, including cocaine, on the Subject  Property on the dates of January 25th and 26th, 2020.”  (SAC ¶ 29.)  “MU THETA  CHAPTER had minimal safeguards in place to ensure the safety of the guests and  invitees at their event, including posting security at specific sites, having a  system in place to verify the age of attendees and invitees, to ensure the  safety of its invitees, guests, and attendees, and to ensure that underage  minors were not served or consuming alcohol on the premises on the Subject  Property during the course of the MU THETA CHAPTER party[.]”  (SAC ¶ 33.)  “At all  relevant times, Defendant HWANG was a member of the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA  ALPHA MU. Plaintiff never met Defendant HWANG before the party. Defendant HWANG  was sober during this MU THETA CHAPTER party which took place on January 25th  and 26th, 2020 on the Subject Property. At the time, HWANG was a resident on  the Subject Property.”  (SAC ¶ 35.)  “During the  party, after Plaintiff was already too intoxicated to know where she was, let  alone to give consent to any kind of sexual contact, Defendant HWANG forced  Plaintiff into the gymnasium of the MU THETA CHAPTER on the Subject Property.  There were representations made by SIGMA ALPHA MU and MU THETA CHAPTER members  that security was assigned to guard the door of the gymnasium during the MU  THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property on the dates alleged within this  Second Amended Complaint. There was no security at the gymnasium to prevent  fraternity members, guests, residents, attendees, or invitees from entering or  to check on whether any individuals had entered the gymnasium. If security had  been properly placed or in attendance on the Subject Property as represented as  a safety measure, this sexual assault and subsequent activity and damages may  not have taken place. Defendant HWANG then incapacitated the Plaintiff and  placed Plaintiff in a ‘Saturday Night’ hold, a wrestling or martial arts move  designed to subdue an opponent, or similar type hold to disable her so she  could not fend him off or get away from him. Defendant HWANG looped his arms  underneath Plaintiff’s shoulders and his hands were on Plaintiff’s shoulders  pulling her towards the ground. Defendant HWANG pushed Plaintiff’s face into a  mat on the floor so she could not move.”  (SAC ¶ 36.)  “Defendant  HWANG then raped Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 37.)  Defendant Hwang was sober  and Plaintiff was severely intoxicated and could not consent to sexual  activities.  (SAC ¶¶ 38-39.)  Further, “[Plaintiff] did not  consent to any sexual activities with Defendant HWANG, did not know him and did  not know his name. After assaulting the Plaintiff, HWANG then left the  gymnasium and left Plaintiff undressed and partly conscious on the gymnasium  floor in the gymnasium.”  (SAC ¶ 39.)  As a result of the rape,  Plaintiff sustained numerous physical injuries including “a. a swollen, black  eye; b. hand and fingerprint marks, as well as bruising and scratches on her  shoulders and arms; c. abrasions and scratch marks on her arms; d. vaginal  tearing and bleeding so severe that Plaintiff almost had to be hospitalized; e.  severe bruising and soreness; and f. a urinary tract infection.”  (SAC ¶  40.)  “Despite the  fact that Plaintiff was underage and visibly intoxicated when she arrived at  the party, that she drank additional alcohol and then became even more  intoxicated, none of the MU THETA CHAPTER members or any bartenders, security  personnel or property managers present, if any, intervened to make sure that  she was all right, whether she needed assistance or medical care, or took  measures to prevent Defendant HWANG from sexually assaulting Plaintiff or to  ensure similar type safety measures for its guests, invitees, attendees and  other individuals present on the Subject Property on the dates alleged herein  MU THETA CHAPTER and SIGMA ALPHA MU had no reasonable system or mechanism of  supervision or security on the Subject Property to prevent a fraternity member  from bringing an obviously drunk girl to the gymnasium and raping them. There  were no safety measures put into place to ensure that physical battery, such as  subduing an individual, did not happen which is a common sense safety  precaution at an event with a large group of people in which alcohol is  served.”  (SAC ¶ 45.) b.     First Amended  Cross-Complaint The First  Amended Cross-Complaint alleges the following.  TPE is an unknown corporation  analogized to do business and does business in California.  (FAX-Complaint  ¶ 2.)    On December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed  the instant underlying complaint against Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta  Chapter at University of Southern California (“Mu Theta”) regarding a sexual  assault that occurred on January 25, 2020 that took place at the fraternity  house and at a party hosted by Mu Theta.  (Id. ¶¶ 8-9.)   On or about January 21, 2020, Cross-Complainant TPE entered into  an Event Services Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement’) with  Cross-Defendants to provide security services at the Subject Property on  January 25 and 26, 2020. (Id. ¶ 13.)  As evidenced by the Agreement, Cross-Defendants were aware of  their obligations to indemnify and hold harmless TPE under the Agreement and  failed to ensure that MU THETA CHAPTER had retained sufficient general  liability insurance for the Event and TPE. (Id.  ¶ 17.)  Cross-Complainant  expressly denies any liability for Plaintiff’s alleged damages, if any, and  Cross-Complainant is entitled to indemnification from Cross-Defendants  accordingly. Therefore, Cross-Complainants requests an adjudication to  determine the respective portions or percentages of fault on the part of any  reason or entity which may have caused or contributed to the loss or damage  claimed by Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 24.)  B.      Demurrer On April 18,  2024, Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“Cross-Defendant” or  “SAM”) filed the instant demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. SAM demurs to each of Cross-Complainant’s causes of action for failure  to state a claim.  Cross-Complainant The Perfect Event (“Cross-Complainant” or “TPE”)  filed an opposition, arguing that the FAX-Complaint sufficiently sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action. SAM filed a reply maintaining that FAX-Complaint failed to plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action.   II. ANALYSIS A.     Legal  Standard for Demurrer A demurrer  tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,  courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be  apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian  v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.  Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the  court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual  allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is  whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,  supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) B.     Request for  Judicial Notice In Cross-Defendant SAM’s demurrer, it requests judicial notice of  the two pending motions for summary judgment filed by the Defendants in this  action pursuant to Evidence Code § 352. SAM states this in a footnote in the  motion. (Demurrer, p. 8, fn. 1.) However,  California Rules of Court Rule  3.1113(l) requires any request for judicial notice to be made in a separate  document. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(l).) Thus, SAM’s  request for judicial notice is DENIED. C.     Meet and  Confer Requirement  “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to  this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by  telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for  the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would  resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.41, subd. (a).)   Here, counsel for Cross-Defendant submitted a declaration  stating he telephonically met and conferred with Cross-Complainant’s counsel. (Ball Decl., ¶ 12.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its obligations to  meet and confer and the Court proceeds on the merits.  D.     First,  Second and Third Causes of Action: (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution,  (3) Apportionment of Fault SAM argues  that Cross-Complainant’s equitable indemnity, apportionment  of fault, and contribution claims against SAM fail because there are no  allegations linking SAM to the alleged sexual assault of Plaintiff at the party  hosted by Mu Theta.  a.     Alter Ego  Liability “In California, two conditions must be met before the alter  ego doctrine will be invoked.  First, there must be such a unity of  interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the  separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality  exist.  Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in  question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”  (Sonora  Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App 4th 523, 538; Mesler  v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300.)  In Rutherford  Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the  Court of Appeal held the following was sufficient to allege alter ego  liability:   Rutherford  alleged that Caswell dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and  ownership existed between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and  conduit for Caswell's affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR  failed to abide by the formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used  PDR assets as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would  promote injustice. These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First  Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910,  915–916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657. As in First Western, “[a]ssuming these facts  can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego  principle.” (Id. at p. 916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657.)  Defendants  argue that Rutherford failed to allege specific facts to support an alter ego  theory, but Rutherford was required to allege only “ultimate rather than  evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,  550, 67 Cal.Rptr.3d 330, 169 P.3d 559.) Moreover, the “less particularity [of  pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge  of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff,”  which certainly is the case here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.  (1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474, 20 Cal.Rptr. 609, 370 P.2d 313.) Therefore, we  affirm the trial court's ruling that Rutherford sufficiently pled an alter ego  theory of liability.  In  Cross-Complainant’s opposition, it argues that SAM can be held liable for the equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault, and contribution  causes of action because SAM is the alter ego of Mu Theta. Cross-Complainant  asserts that the allegations in Plaintiff’s SAC is incorporated into the First  Amended Cross-Complaint, and the SAC contains allegations that SAM is the alter  ego of Mu Theta.  However, upon  review of the SAC, there are no allegations that Mu Theta is the alter ego of  SAM. The SAC alleges the following: “At all times relevant hereto, Defendants SAM USC HOUSING, SAM  NATIONAL PROPERTIES AND SAM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE, were  the alter egos of SIGMA ALPHA MU, and there exists, at all relevant times  herein mentioned, has existed and continues to exist, a unity of ownership and  interest between Defendants, SAM USC HOUSING, SAM NATIONAL PROPERTIES, SAM  PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE and SIGMA ALPHA MU and each of  them such that any separateness between them has ceased to exist, if it ever  existed, in that SIGMA ALPHA MU and DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE, completely controlled  , dominated, managed, and operated the Defendants SAM USC HOUSING, SAM NATIONAL  PROPERTIES and SAM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE, to further its  goals, financial interests, to promote SIGMA ALPHA MU and in furtherance of the  interests and goals of SIGMA ALPHA MU, AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE.” (SAC  ¶ 16.)  The SAC only alleges that the other  defendants in this case: SAM National Properties, LLC, SAM Property Management,  LLC, and SAM USC Housing, LLC, are the alter egos of SAM. (SAC ¶¶ 15-19.) The  SAC and the First Amended Cross-Complaint fail to contain any allegations of  alter ego liability, such as the commingling of funds, lack of separateness, etc.,  as to SAM and Mu Theta. Therefore,  the Court does not find SAM can be held liable for the equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault, and contribution  causes of action based on alter ego liability.  b.     Direct  Liability “To state a claim for equitable indemnity, a  defendant must allege the same harm for which he may be held liable is properly  attributable—at least in part—to the cross-defendant.”  (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real  Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.) The First Amended Cross-Complaint  alleges the following: Hwang, Plaintiff’s alleged assailant, was a member of  both Mu Theta Chapter and SAM (FAX-Complaint ¶  9); that the Event Services Agreement was entered into by and between TPE and SAM  (FAX-Complaint ¶ 10); that there is a lease,  living arrangement, or other legal and contractual arrangement as to use of the  subject property where the alleged assault took place that existed between Mu  Theta Chapter and SAM (FAX-Complaint ¶ 11);  and that SAM derived a social, financial, business, and other commercial and  networking benefit from the use and enjoyment of the subject property and that SAM  further had a responsibility to manage and maintain the property. (FAX-Complaint ¶ 12); that the Event Services  Agreement made SAM aware of its obligations to indemnify and hold TPE harmless  under the Agreement and failed to ensure that Mu Theta had retained sufficient  general liability insurance of its own for the event and TPE (FAX-Complaint ¶ 17); that SAM provided training to  its fraternity members, including Hwang, on issues relating to sexual  harassment (FAX-Complaint ¶ 20); that SAM was,  at all times fully aware, of the fact that Mu Theta had retained security  services for events at the subject property (FAX-Complaint  ¶ 21); and that SAM was fully aware that Mu Theta was fully reliant on it to  secure and maintain an insurance policy from which coverage would be extended  to Mu Theta and provide any applicable protections for any damages found owed  to Plaintiff in this matter. (FAX-Complaint  ¶22). SAM argues Cross-Complainant  fails to allege any basis on  which SAM was negligent and liable with Mu Theta for the damages suffered by  Plaintiff. A valid claim of indemnity requires that there must be a showing of  fault on the part of the indemnitor and resulting damages to the indemnitee for  which the indemnitor is contractually or equitably responsible. (Bailey v.  Safeway, Inc., (2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 206.) Here, the Court agrees that the First Amended Cross-Complaint fails to allege  sufficient facts. Cross-Complainant had alleged that SAM entered into the Event  Services Agreement with Cross-Complainant TPE based on alter ego liability.  Cross-Complainant TPE and Mu Theta had entered into an Event Services Agreement  to provide security services at the Subject Property on January 25 and  26, 2020. (FAX-Complaint ¶  13.) Cross-Complainant alleges that based on the agreement, Cross-Defendants were aware of their obligations to indemnify and  hold harmless TPE under the Agreement. (FAX-Complaint ¶  17.) However, as discussed above, it is not  sufficiently pled that SAM is an alter ego of Mu Theta. Therefore, liability on  this ground fails. Further, the First-Amended Cross-Complaint’s allegations don’t  support an argument for liability on behalf of SAM. For example, the First  Amended Cross-Complaint doesn’t specify how a lease between SAM and Mu Theta  would hold SAM liable for the alleged sexual assault. In addition, the fact  that SAM provided sexual harassment training to Mu Theta members does not show  negligence or liability. In sum, the allegations added to the First Amended  Cross-Complaint do not establish how and on what basis SAM was negligent or  liable.  Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED  with leave to amend as to the first, second and third causes of action.  E.      Fourth Cause of Action: Contractual Indemnity SAM  demurs to the fourth cause of action on the grounds that it was impermissibly  added to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. The prior Cross-Complaint had only  alleged a contractual indemnity claim against Mu Theta, and not SAM.  “Following  an order sustaining a demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend  his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order.” (Harris v.  Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023). The plaintiff  may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having  obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within the  scope of the order granting leave to amend. (See Patrick v. Alacer Corp.  (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015, 84 Cal.Rptr.3d 642 [acknowledging rule but  finding it inapplicable where new cause of action “directly responds” to trial  court's reason for sustaining the demurrer].)  The  Court finds that the contractual indemnity cause of action against SAM was not  permissibly added. The  order sustaining the demurrer to the prior Cross-Complaint with leave to amend  granted leave to amend the causes of action asserted in the prior Cross-Complaint, not  leave to allege new causes of action against SAM. Accordingly,  SAM’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. F.       Fifth Cause of Action: Breach of Contract SAM demurs to the fifth cause of action because  SAM did not enter into a contract with Cross-Complainant. SAM asserts that the Event  Services Agreement was only entered into between Mu Theta and  Cross-Complainant, SAM was not a party to the contract.  To state a cause of action for breach of  contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the  contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)  51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on  alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the  body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and  incorporated by reference.”  (Harris  v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also  “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.  TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.) In opposition, Cross-Complainant asserts that  SAM is an alter ego of Mu Theta and thus a party to the contract that was  allegedly breached. However, as discussed above, the Court does not find that  Cross-Complainant has sufficiently alleged alter ego liability between SAM and  Mu Theta. Therefore, Cross-Complainant has not established SAM was a party to  the contract. Accordingly, SAM’s  demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. G.     Sixth Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief “To qualify for declaratory relief, a party  would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a  proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving  justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)  213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.)   “[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are  involved.”  (Osseous Technologies of  America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,  366, cleaned up.) The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges: “There presently exists a controversy between Cross-Complainant,  on the one hand, and Cross-Defendants and each of them, on the other hand, in  that Cross-Complainants contend that if Plaintiff sustained damages and  injuries for the reasons as alleged in the Complaint, and is awarded judgment  for which Cross-Complainants are held responsible, then Cross-Complainants are  entitled to indemnification to recover against Cross-Defendants, and each of  them, the amount of any judgment or judgments that may be entered against  Cross-Complainant in the defense of this action including, without limitation,  attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses for the appropriate investigation and  conduct of its defense; whereas Cross-Defendants dispute and deny the  contentions of the Cross-Complainant contained in this Cross-Complaint and  assert that they have no obligation to Cross-Complainant. Accordingly, a  declaration of this Court is necessary to determine the rights and obligations  existing between Cross-Complainant and each Cross-Defendant, and the same can  be determined and declared in the present action thus avoiding a circuitry of  actions and multiplicity of suits.” (FAX-Complaint ¶¶  51-52.)    The Court  finds the sixth cause of action is not sufficiently set forth. It is cumulative  of the prior causes of action. No new or additional declaration is sought in  this cause of action that is not covered by the prior causes of action. SAM’s demurrer to the sixth  cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  III. DISPOSITION  The Court SUSTAINS Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu  Fraternity, Inc.’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint with  20 days leave to amend.07/30/2024Dept. 26Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding  DOE v. SIGMA ALPHA MU FRATERNITY, MU
THETA CHAPTER AT UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al. (21STCV46495) Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:                Hillary Johns (Hillary Johns, Trial
Lawyer)Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:       Mary
Childs (Yoka & Smith, LLP) (1)  
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S MEDICAL RECORDS,
AS TO HOAG MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (filed 12/13/2023)
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S BILLING RECORDS, AS TO HOAG MEMORIAL
HOSPITAL (filed
12/13/2023) (3)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S RADIOLOGY RECORDS, AS TO HOAG MEMORIAL
HOSPITAL (filed
12/13/2023) (4)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO HARBOR PSYCHIATRY
& MENTAL HEALTH (filed
12/13/2023) (5)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO WILLIAM EDWARD
HUNT M.S., LMFT (filed
12/13/2023) (6)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE – SHARP PROGRAM (filed
12/13/2023) (7)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE SURVEY CENTER (filed
12/13/2023) (8)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO ALVANDI LAW
GROUP, P.C. (filed
12/13/2023) (9)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO NEWMARKET
RECREATION (filed
12/13/2023) (10)                  
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S
EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE – OFFICE OF COMMUNITY
STANDARDS (filed
12/13/2023) (11)                  
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S
THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO CARE.COM (filed 12/13/2023) (12)                  
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S
RECORDS, AS TO SOUTH ORANGE COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT (filed 12/14/2023) (13)                  
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S
THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE – REGISTRAR (filed 12/14/2023)   TENTATIVE RULING The Motions to Quash Defendants'
deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s medical and therapy
records as to
Plaintiff’s healthcare providers are GRANTED. The Motions
to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the
production of Plaintiff’s academic records as to Plaintiff’s educational
institutions are DENIED. The Motions
to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the
production of Plaintiff’s records as to
Plaintiff’s employers are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The Court grants
the motion as to Plaintiff’s tax return documents only and denies the motion as
to the rest of Plaintiff’s employment records. 
 The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests
for monetary sanctions.  I. BACKGROUND On
December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant sexual assault action against
Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of
Southern California; Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.; SAM National Properties,
LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM Property Management, LLC; JERO Enterprises, Inc.,
dba Brad Management; and Peter Hwang.  On May
18, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed JERO Enterprises, Inc., dba Brad Management
from the instant action without prejudice. On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu
Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of Southern California; Sigma Alpha
Mu Fraternity, Inc.; SAM National Properties, LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM
Property Management, LLC; Peter Hwang; and The Perfect Event, Inc.  The
SAC asserts ten causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligence – Premises
Liability, (3) Negligence, (4) Negligent Security, (5) Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention, (6) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention,
(7) Assault, (8) Battery, (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and
(10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. On March 8, 2023, Cross-Complainant
The Perfect Event, Inc. (“TPE”) filed the at issue First Amended cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at
University of Southern California.  The cross-complaint at issue asserts
six causes of action for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution, (3)
Apportionment of Fault, (4) Contractual Indemnity, (5) Breach of Contract, and
(6) Declaratory Relief.   A.     Allegations
of the Operative Complaints a.     Second
Amended Complaint The SAC
alleges the following.  “On or about
January 21, 2020, THE PERFECT EVENT entered into a written agreement with SIGMA
ALPHA MU, one of the Defendants herein in which THE PERFECT EVENT agreed to
provide, inter alia, the following services to SIGMA ALPHA MU at MU THETA
CHAPTER’S event scheduled for January 25 and 26, 2020 on the Subject Property
described herein.”  (SAC ¶ 6.)  On January
25, 2020 and January 26, 2020, Plaintiff went to visit a friend at the
University of Southern California (“USC”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff
and her friends pre-partied at student housing which included consuming
alcohol” before heading to a party at Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta
Chapter at University of Southern California’s (“Mu Theta Chapter”) house (the
“Subject Property”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff was visibly intoxicated
and having some difficulty walking correctly before she entered the MU THETA
CHAPTER party on the Subject Property and expressed concern to the attendees
before she entered the Subject Property about whether she was too intoxicated
to attend.”  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff
then went to the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA ALPHA MU on the Subject Property to
attend a party. Plaintiff did not receive a bracelet or any mark which would
indicate that she was underage from individuals at the door of the or at any
time when she was on the Subject Property. The individuals who attended the
party with her were also underage and did not receive any bracelet or any mark
that would indicate that any of them were underage.”  (SAC ¶ 24.) 
“At the time that she entered the party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff was
under the age of twenty-one years and a virgin for religious reasons.
Specifically, she had committed to waiting to have sex until she was married.
Even though Plaintiff had previously had boyfriends for more than a year at a
time, she did not have sex, since she was waiting until marriage.”  (SAC ¶
26.)  “At the MU
THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff’s underage friend was
served alcohol by a bartender at the party either hired by the Defendants and
each of them, or assigned by the Defendants and each of them, even though she
already was visibly intoxicated at the time and did not have any identification
to indicate that she was of legal age to consume alcohol.”  (SAC ¶
27.)  “MU THETA CHAPTER members, as well as bartenders, security personnel
and/or property managers and/or their agents on the Subject Property present
saw Plaintiff and her friends being handed and drinking alcohol and some of
their other activities at the party, even though they were underage.” 
(SAC ¶ 32.)  “There was a
dance platform during the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property with
several tiers in a poorly lit room. The music was loud and it was difficult to
hear or to ask for assistance of any kind. Plaintiff and her friends were
dancing on the platform and her friends had expressed concern that Plaintiff
would fall or would not be able to navigate or get down from the platform.
There was no security or any individuals present near the platform to ensure
the safety of Plaintiff, her friends, or other guests, attendees, or invitees.
The lighting in the room with the platform was dim making the platform and the
room difficult to navigate. There were bottles of soda and beer on the floor
and strewn about the area as well as cups, plates of food, and other trash or
debris, both on tables and on the floor. There was no clear supervisor, manager
or individual overseeing the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property.
There was no security visible or actively present or monitoring the rooms or areas
in the MU THETA CHAPTER residence on the Subject Property during the event.
Some of the residents at the event were visibly or admittedly intoxicated,
impaired from marijuana use or were either seen or admitted to using or being
involved in illegal recreational drug use, including cocaine, on the Subject
Property on the dates of January 25th and 26th, 2020.”  (SAC ¶ 29.)  “MU THETA
CHAPTER had minimal safeguards in place to ensure the safety of the guests and
invitees at their event, including posting security at specific sites, having a
system in place to verify the age of attendees and invitees, to ensure the
safety of its invitees, guests, and attendees, and to ensure that underage
minors were not served or consuming alcohol on the premises on the Subject
Property during the course of the MU THETA CHAPTER party[.]”  (SAC ¶ 33.)  “At all
relevant times, Defendant HWANG was a member of the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA
ALPHA MU. Plaintiff never met Defendant HWANG before the party. Defendant HWANG
was sober during this MU THETA CHAPTER party which took place on January 25th
and 26th, 2020 on the Subject Property. At the time, HWANG was a resident on
the Subject Property.”  (SAC ¶ 35.)  “During the
party, after Plaintiff was already too intoxicated to know where she was, let
alone to give consent to any kind of sexual contact, Defendant HWANG forced
Plaintiff into the gymnasium of the MU THETA CHAPTER on the Subject Property.
There were representations made by SIGMA ALPHA MU and MU THETA CHAPTER members
that security was assigned to guard the door of the gymnasium during the MU
THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property on the dates alleged within this
Second Amended Complaint. There was no security at the gymnasium to prevent
fraternity members, guests, residents, attendees, or invitees from entering or
to check on whether any individuals had entered the gymnasium. If security had
been properly placed or in attendance on the Subject Property as represented as
a safety measure, this sexual assault and subsequent activity and damages may
not have taken place. Defendant HWANG then incapacitated the Plaintiff and
placed Plaintiff in a ‘Saturday Night’ hold, a wrestling or martial arts move
designed to subdue an opponent, or similar type hold to disable her so she
could not fend him off or get away from him. Defendant HWANG looped his arms
underneath Plaintiff’s shoulders and his hands were on Plaintiff’s shoulders
pulling her towards the ground. Defendant HWANG pushed Plaintiff’s face into a
mat on the floor so she could not move.”  (SAC ¶ 36.)  “Defendant
HWANG then raped Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 37.)  Defendant Hwang was sober
and Plaintiff was severely intoxicated and could not consent to sexual
activities.  (SAC ¶¶ 38-39.)  Further, “[Plaintiff] did not
consent to any sexual activities with Defendant HWANG, did not know him and did
not know his name. After assaulting the Plaintiff, HWANG then left the
gymnasium and left Plaintiff undressed and partly conscious on the gymnasium
floor in the gymnasium.”  (SAC ¶ 39.)  As a result of the rape,
Plaintiff sustained numerous physical injuries including “a. a swollen, black
eye; b. hand and fingerprint marks, as well as bruising and scratches on her
shoulders and arms; c. abrasions and scratch marks on her arms; d. vaginal
tearing and bleeding so severe that Plaintiff almost had to be hospitalized; e.
severe bruising and soreness; and f. a urinary tract infection.”  (SAC ¶
40.)  “Despite the
fact that Plaintiff was underage and visibly intoxicated when she arrived at
the party, that she drank additional alcohol and then became even more
intoxicated, none of the MU THETA CHAPTER members or any bartenders, security
personnel or property managers present, if any, intervened to make sure that
she was all right, whether she needed assistance or medical care, or took
measures to prevent Defendant HWANG from sexually assaulting Plaintiff or to
ensure similar type safety measures for its guests, invitees, attendees and
other individuals present on the Subject Property on the dates alleged herein
MU THETA CHAPTER and SIGMA ALPHA MU had no reasonable system or mechanism of
supervision or security on the Subject Property to prevent a fraternity member
from bringing an obviously drunk girl to the gymnasium and raping them. There
were no safety measures put into place to ensure that physical battery, such as
subduing an individual, did not happen which is a common sense safety
precaution at an event with a large group of people in which alcohol is
served.”  (SAC ¶ 45.) b.     First Amended
Cross-Complaint The First
Amended Cross-Complaint alleges the following.  TPE is an unknown corporation
analogized to do business and does business in California.  (FAX-Complaint
¶ 2.)    On December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed
the instant underlying complaint against Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta
Chapter at University of Southern California (“Mu Theta”) regarding a sexual
assault that occurred on January 25, 2020 that took place at the fraternity
house and at a party hosted by Mu Theta.  (Id. ¶¶ 8-9.)   On or about January 21, 2020, Cross-Complainant TPE entered into
an Event Services Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement’) with
Cross-Defendants to provide security services at the Subject Property on
January 25 and 26, 2020. (Id. ¶ 13.)  As evidenced by the Agreement, Cross-Defendants were aware of
their obligations to indemnify and hold harmless TPE under the Agreement and
failed to ensure that MU THETA CHAPTER had retained sufficient general
liability insurance for the Event and TPE. (Id.
¶ 17.)  Cross-Complainant
expressly denies any liability for Plaintiff’s alleged damages, if any, and
Cross-Complainant is entitled to indemnification from Cross-Defendants
accordingly. Therefore, Cross-Complainants requests an adjudication to
determine the respective portions or percentages of fault on the part of any
reason or entity which may have caused or contributed to the loss or damage
claimed by Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 24.)  B.    
Motions to Quash On December 13, 2023 and December 14,
2023, Plaintiff filed thirteen Motions to Quash Deposition Subpoenas Issued by
Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc., SAM National Properties, LLC, SAM
Property Management LLC, and SAM USC Housing LLC. The motions are listed below:1.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to Hoag Memorial Hospital – Medical
Records; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13,
2023; 2.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Billing Records, as to Hoag Memorial Hospital;
Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023; 3.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Radiology Records, as to Hoag Memorial Hospital -
Radiology; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13,
2023; 4.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to Harbor Psychiatry & Mental Health;
Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023; 5.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to William E. Hunt M.S. LMFT; Restricted
Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023; 6.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to University of New Hampshire – SHARP
Program - Attn: Julia Lihzis; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions,
filed on December 13, 2023; 7.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to University of New Hampshire
– Attn: Robert Durant; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on
December 13, 2023; 8.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to Alvandi Law Group, P.C.;
Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023; 9.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to Newmarket Recreation;
Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023; 10.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to University of New Hampshire
– Office of Community Standards; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions,
filed on December 13, 202311.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to Care.com; Restricted
Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023; 12.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to South Orange County Community College
District; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 14,
2023; and 13.
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to University of New Hampshire –
Registrar; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 14,
2023. Plaintiff’s arguments:·       The subpoenas were directed to three
different subgroups of third parties: healthcare providers, employers, and
educational institutions. Each subpoena to a subgroup of third parties sought
identical documents.·       Medical Recordso   The
subpoenas to the healthcare providers sought
“Any and all documents and records pertaining to care, treatment and
examinations, including but not limited to [every type of record a healthcare
provider could conceivably have], and any other records, irrespective of date,
re [Jane Doe]” and additional documents.o   The subpoena’s document requests
are overbroad and seek irrelevant information.o   The requests are unrestricted with
respect to time, going back indefinitely into the past. The requests are also
unrestricted with respect to body parts or injury, instead of being limited to Plaintiff’s
injuries sustained as a result of the sexual assaulto   The requests seek documents
protected by privileges and Plaintiff’s right to privacy, including, at a
minimum, the doctor-patient privilege, therapist-patient privilege, and sexual
assault counselor-victim privilege which are not reasonably necessary to prepare
a defense to the Plaintiff’s claims.·       Employment
Recordso   The
subpoenas to Plaintiff’s employers sought “Complete
employment records from the first date of employment to the present, including
but not limited to any records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or
electronically: earnings, all payroll, application for employment, work
absenteeism or time off, disciplinary records, benefits, incident reports,
W-2’s, 1099’s, claim records, pre-employment exam records, and employee
progress records for [Jane Doe].o   The subpoena’s document requests are
overbroad, seek irrelevant information, seek documents protected by
California’s right to privacy, and seek documents protected by the taxpayer’s privilege.o   Taxpayers privilege§  Tax returns are not discoverable. Sav-On-Drugs
v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1; Webb v. Standard Oil Co. (1957)
49 Cal.2d 509.) Nor are the documents related thereto. Id.; Brown v.
Sup.Ct. (Executive Car Leasing) (1977) 71 CA3d 141, 144 (personal injury
plaintiff, claiming earnings loss, could not
be compelled to produce W-2 forms received from employer).§  Plaintiff’s tax related documents,
including W-2’s, 1099’s, and the like should be withheld from discovery due to
the privilege. Defendant’s request also requests wage statements. It would seem that Defendants do not need both
or all in relation to any production.·       Educational Recordso   “Any and all educational and health
care files pertaining to [Jane Doe], including but not limited to all
scholastic records, schedules, grade reports, attendance records,
accommodations, documents or records related to accommodation meetings,
disciplinary records, correspondence, health care records, medical reports, IEP
reports, and computer generated data. INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO RECORDS FROM
IRVINE VALLEY COLLEGE.”o   The
subpoena’s document requests are overbroad and seek irrelevant information§  Are
unrestricted with respect to time, going back indefinitely into the past and
prior to Plaintiff’s injuries sustained as a result of the allegations set
forth in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint§  Are
unrestricted with respect subject matter, instead of being limited to documents
Plaintiff’s injuries sustained as a result of the allegations set forth in the
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint§  Seek
privileged documents protected by privileges and Plaintiff’s right to privacy,
including, at a minimum, the doctor-patient privilege, therapist-patient
privilege, and sexual assault counselor-victim privilege which are not
reasonably necessary to prepare a defense to the Plaintiff’s claims§  The subpoena
seeks information protected by the physician-patient privilege, psychotherapist
patient privilege, and sexual assault victim-counselor privilege.·       In each
motion, Plaintiff is requesting that the Court
quash the subpoena in its entirety. In the alternative, Plaintiff requests that
the Court issue a protective order which narrowly specifies the compelled
disclosure. The protective order should limit responsive production to only the
medical and mental health records directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.o   If there are any disputed records then
the Plaintiff request that the Court review them in camera prior to production
to Defendants.o   Plaintiff is also requesting monetary
sanctions against Defendants. On February 9, 2024, Defendants filed joint
oppositions to Plaintiff’s motions to quash, arguing:·       Medical and Mental
Health Recordso   The
documents requested by Defendants' subpoenas are relevant to confirm or refute
the legitimacy of Plaintiff s factual claims regarding the night in question as
well as the injuries and damages that Plaintiff claims she sustained as a
result of the incident.o   Moreover, the Psychotherapist-Patient
Privilege and the Sexual Assault Victim-Counselor Privilege, which Plaintiff
claims protects the disclosure of any of mental health records is inapplicable
here because Plaintiffs right to privacy is not absolute and she has placed her
mental health and emotional distress front and center in this litigationo   The scope of Defendants' subpoenas was also appropriate, given that
they were only issued to the providers that Plaintiff identified in her
discovery responses, and they were narrowly tailored to only seek records that
pertained to the injuries
that Plaintiff was alleging were the result of the incident.·       Employment
Recordso   The records requested from these employers
are necessary as the information contained therein will very likely confirm or
refute the veracity of Plaintiff s story with relation to her ability to work,
the effect on
her income, and her wages. o   Plaintiff Has Waived Her Right to Privacy
Regarding the Requested Records. Because she has placed her ability to work
directly at issue in this action, she
has given up the right to completely shield her records from Defendants.o   The scope of Defendants' subpoenas was also
appropriate, given that they were only issued to the employers that Plaintiff identified in her
discovery responses, and they were narrowly tailored to only seek records that pertained to the injuries
that Plaintiff was alleging were the result of the incident.·       Educational
Recordso   Plaintiff’s Records From the University of
New Hampshire and South Orange County Community College District Should All Be
Produced to Evaluate Plaintiff’s Claimed Interference With Her Education, As
Well As Any Psychological and Emotional injuries, Her Treatment For Such, and Her Emotional Damages Claims On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply, arguing: ·      
The Perfect
Event’s Submission Is Untimely And Should Be Disregarded·      
The Joint
Opposition includes confidential information as to the Plaintiffo  
The parties
will go in ex parte on this matter so this issue may be moot at the time of
this hearing·      
Defendants’
Joint opposition fails to state a compelling interest for their non-specific
unrestricted requestso  
The
California Courts have repeatedly held that merely because an individual files
a lawsuit in which emotional distress is claimed, the plaintiff is not opened
up to wholesale discovery of every aspect of their life, even if it might have
some bearing on emotional distress. (See, e.g., Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d844). II. DISCUSSION A.     Timeliness As an initial
matter, Plaintiff argues in her Reply that Defendant The Perfect Event’s Joinder
Submission is untimely and should be disregarded. Counsel
for The Perfect Event signed the Joint Opposition which was served on February
9, 2024. On February 12, 2024, The Perfect Event submitted a six-page Joinder
in Joint Defense Opposition ToPlaintiff’s
Motions To Quash Plaintiff’s Mental Health, Counseling, And Therapy Records by
electronic service. The Plaintiff’s reply brief was due on February 16, 2024.
Plaintiff requests that The Perfect Event’s pleading be disregarded in its
entirety. A court may properly consider
papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP section 1005(b) unless
“substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d);
Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The appearance of a party at the hearing of a
motion and his or her opposition to the motion on the merits is a waiver of any
procedural defects or irregularities in a motion.  (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.) The Court
exercises its discretion to consider The Perfect Event’s pleading. The hearing
in this matter is scheduled for July 30, 2024. The Court does not find that
Plaintiff’s substantial rights were affected. The Court continues its
discussion on the merits of the motions.  B.     Legal
Standard  California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) provides:  If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010:  Unless otherwise limited by order of the court…any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party
seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.  Discovery may be
obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody,
condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information,
tangible thing, or land or other property.  (Ibid.)  “‘[F]or
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’
and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is
discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’  These
rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery . . . and (contrary to
popular belief) fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, [internal citations
omitted].)    C.     Merits of the
Motion Plaintiff moves to quash subpoenas for production of medical,
academic, and employment records on the following grounds: (1) the subpoenas
are overbroad. The requests are made without limitations as to time and subject
matter; (2) and the subpoenas threaten Plaintiff’s constitutionally protected
privacy rights. Plaintiff asserts she has a legally protected interest in each
of the categories of records sought by Defendants. As a general rule, all
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action
is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court. (1993) 5
Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be discovered impacts a
person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited protections come into play
for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993,
999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal and financial matters. (Id.)
The court must balance competing rights — the right of a litigant to discover
relevant facts and the right of an individual to maintain reasonable privacy —
in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Id.)  For discovery purposes,
information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the
case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  The requests at issue were
sent by Defendants to Plaintiff’s medical providers, educational institutions,
and employers: Hoag Memorial Hospital, Harbor Psychiatry & Mental Health,
William E. Hunt M.S., LMFT, University of New Hampshire, Alvandi law Group,
P.C., Newmarket Recreation, Care.com, and South Orange County Community College
District. These requests seek all medical documents and records, all academic
and education records, and all employment documents and records.  a.     Medical and
Mental Health Records Plaintiff
asserts that the requested medical and mental health documents will infringe
upon her right to privacy because the records are confidential, and Defendants’
request for that confidential information is overbroad.   A person’s inalienable right to privacy, as guaranteed by the
California and United States Constitutions, applies to their medical records. (Britt,
supra, 20 Cal.3d at 855-856; see also Palay v. Superior Court (1993)
18 Cal.App.4th 919, 931; John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th
1177, 1198.) A party’s medical records are also privileged under the
patient-physician privilege. (See Hale v. Superior Court (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1421, 1424.) “Discovery of constitutionally protected information
is on a par with discovery of privileged information.” (Tylo v. Superior
Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387.) Where the party filing an action
has arguably waived the privacy in their protected or privileged information by
filing a lawsuit, the waiver must be narrowly construed such that discovery is
only permitted of those matters directly relevant to the party’s claims. (Britt,
supra, 20 Cal.3d at 858-859.) Notwithstanding, the party still has privacy
rights as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the claimed injury.
(See id. at 864; Heller v. Norcal Mutual Insurance Co. (1994) 8
Cal.4th 30, 44.) The Court finds the information being
requested is relevant since Plaintiff put her mental health at issue in her
claim for noneconomic damages for emotional distress, pain, and suffering.
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title,
any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.)¿Defendants
seek Plaintiff’s medical and mental health records to show that Plaintiff’s
alleged harm came from another source, presumably to reduce or eliminate
Defendants’ liability. Defendants seek to compare Plaintiff’s health from
before and after the alleged sexual assault. The Court agrees that these
documents are relevant for that purpose. However, the Court finds
the requests are overly intrusive and overbroad for the aims Defendants seek to
achieve. Defendants’
subpoenas essentially request all of Plaintiff’s medical records relating to
any issue for all of time. While
Defendants will certainly be entitled to some of Plaintiff’s medical records,
the blanket request for everything from Plaintiff’s entire life is not
appropriate. Plaintiff correctly asserts that such a broad request, like Defendant’s
subpoena, violates her right to privacy and the third party's right to privacy.
The subpoena seeking every medical record regarding the Plaintiff is not
directly relevant and narrowly tailored to the issues in the case, which is
Plaintiff’s allegations of sexual assault that occurred in January 2020, nor do
Defendants demonstrate a compelling need for the discovery beyond seeking proof
of Plaintiff’s claimed damages. Defendants must make some effort to focus their
inquiry, perhaps starting with medical and mental health records beginning one
year before the assault or in the years afterward. Based on the foregoing, the Court will grant the
motions as to Plaintiff’s healthcare providers in their entirety.Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motions
to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the
production of Plaintiff’s medical and therapy records to Plaintiff’s healthcare providers. D.     Employment and Educational Records Plaintiff
also asserts that the requested employment and academic records will infringe
upon her right to privacy. The right
of privacy in the California Constitution (art. I, § 1), “protects the
individual's reasonable expectation of privacy against a serious
invasion.”  (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242,
1250 [italics in original]; See Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552 [“In Hill, we established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.  The party seeking information may raise in response whatever
legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the
party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A
court must then balance these competing considerations.”].)  In establishing a privacy interest
“the burden [is] on the party asserting a privacy interest to¿establish its
extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that
showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies,
as¿Hill¿requires.”  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.)  “Only obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal
autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, the burden is first on Plaintiff
as the objecting party to show the extent and seriousness of the prospective
invasion. It is clear that there is at least some privacy interest in
employment records. (See Board of Trustees v. Superior Court¿(1981) 119
Cal.App.3d 516, 528¿disapproved on other grounds by¿Williams v. Superior
Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, Fn. 8, [Finding that confidential
personnel files at a person's place of employment are within the zone of
privacy.]; accord El Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1987)
190 Cal.App.3d 342, 344 disapproved on other grounds by¿Williams v. Superior
Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, Fn. 8.)   First, regarding the request for tax
return documents, the Court finds Defendants have not shown a compelling need
for the tax documents and that no less intrusive alternatives are available. Defendants’
subpoena to Plaintiff’s employers includes requests for tax documents including
Plaintiff’s W-2’s and 1099’s. Plaintiff asserts her tax documents are protected
by the taxpayer privilege. A person
is privileged to withhold disclosure of their taxpayer information. (Brown
v. Superior Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141, 142-144 [finding plaintiff’s
W-2 tax forms were subject to privilege protecting taxpayer information from
disclosure despite defendants’ claim they were relevant to lost wages].)
Plaintiff has offered to confirm the dates of her
employment, job title and rate of pay as a less intrusive means. Further,
Defendant’s request for employment documents included a request for wage
statements, thus it seems less intrusive means exist to obtain the information
requested.  Next, regarding the rest of the
requested employment records and the requested academic documents, the Court
finds that while there is some privacy interest, Plaintiff has failed to show
the seriousness of the provided invasion. The alleged sexual assault occurred in January 2020.
Plaintiff started working for her oldest employer in 2020. (Ball Decl., Ex. 2,
pp. 7-8.) Therefore, Plaintiff does not have employment personnel documents
that would date past 2020. In addition, Plaintiff’s college academic records do
not date past 2019. (Ibid.) Therefore, the Court does not find the scope
of the requested records overbroad. Moreover, a protective order has been
stipulated between the parties.   While a compelling need is not
necessary the documents sought must still be directly relevant in balancing
disclosure to the right of privacy that exists in Plaintiff’s prior employer’s
personnel and academic records.  Therefore, “[t]he burden is on the party
seeking the constitutionally protected information to
establish¿direct¿relevance.”  (Davis v. Superior Court¿(1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) The Court finds the
requested documents are relevant. In Plaintiff’s response to Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories, she stated that she was suffering from
"stress, anxiety, bad dreams with no sleep, mental abuse, headaches,
emotional distress, trauma, night terrors, interruption of daily and
educational activities and pursuits, fear, interference with academic
pursuits and pursuit of a career, interference with personal, familial and
other interpersonal relationships, emotional damages associated with sexual assault,
harassment and bullying, and depression" due to the incident. (Ball Decl.,
Ex. 2. [emphasis added].) She also responded to Form Interrogatory No. 8.8 by
stating that "it is not currently known how the injuries from the incident
will affect her career and her earning capacity." (Ibid.) Thus, the
requested records are relevant to evaluate Plaintiff’s ability to work, her
loss of earnings claim, and claimed interference with her education. The Court
finds Plaintiff’s academic records and the non-tax return documents of Plaintiff’s
employment records are relevant and discoverable.  Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the Motions to Quash Defendants'
deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s records to Plaintiff’s educational
institutions. The Court GRANTS the Motions to Quash Defendants'
deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s records to Plaintiff’s employers as to
Plaintiff’s tax return documents only and DENIES the motion as to the rest of
Plaintiff’s employment records.   E.     Sanctions In
conjunction with her 13 Motions to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for
records, Plaintiff seeks a total of $12,387.18 in sanctions from Defendants for
$952.86 per motion. Sanctions may be awarded
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2(a), which provides:  “[I]n
making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987
or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of
the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  Here, the
Court does not find Plaintiff has shown discovery abuse by Defendants and the
Court does not exercise its discretion to award sanctions.  III. DISPOSITION  The Motions
to Quash Defendants'
deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s medical and therapy
records as to
Plaintiff’s healthcare providers are GRANTED. The Motions to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the
production of Plaintiff’s academic records as to Plaintiff’s educational
institutions are DENIED. The Motions to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the
production of Plaintiff’s records as to Plaintiff’s employers are GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part. The Court grants the motion as to Plaintiff’s tax
return documents only and denies the motion as to the rest of Plaintiff’s
employment records.   

















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.   