 Case Number:  21STCV46945    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  26 07/30/2024 Dept. 26 Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding    DOE v. SIGMA ALPHA MU FRATERNITY, MU  THETA CHAPTER AT UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN  CALIFORNIA, et al. (21STCV46495)   Counsel  for Plaintiff/moving party:                Hillary Johns (Hillary Johns, Trial  Lawyer) Counsel  for Defendants/opposing party:       Mary  Childs (Yoka & Smith, LLP)   (1)    PLAINTIFF’S MOTION  TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S MEDICAL RECORDS,  AS TO HOAG MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (filed 12/13/2023)   (2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S BILLING RECORDS, AS TO HOAG MEMORIAL  HOSPITAL (filed  12/13/2023)  (3)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S RADIOLOGY RECORDS, AS TO HOAG MEMORIAL  HOSPITAL (filed  12/13/2023)  (4)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO HARBOR PSYCHIATRY  & MENTAL HEALTH (filed  12/13/2023)  (5)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO WILLIAM EDWARD  HUNT M.S., LMFT (filed  12/13/2023)  (6)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF NEW  HAMPSHIRE – SHARP PROGRAM (filed  12/13/2023)  (7)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF  NEW HAMPSHIRE SURVEY CENTER (filed  12/13/2023)  (8)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO ALVANDI LAW  GROUP, P.C. (filed  12/13/2023)  (9)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION  SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO NEWMARKET  RECREATION (filed  12/13/2023)  (10)                    PLAINTIFF’S  MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S  EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE – OFFICE OF COMMUNITY  STANDARDS (filed  12/13/2023)  (11)                    PLAINTIFF’S  MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S  THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO CARE.COM (filed 12/13/2023)  (12)                    PLAINTIFF’S  MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S  RECORDS, AS TO SOUTH ORANGE COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT (filed 12/14/2023)  (13)                    PLAINTIFF’S  MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF PLAINTIFF’S  THERAPY RECORDS, AS TO UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE – REGISTRAR (filed 12/14/2023)      TENTATIVE RULING   The Motions to Quash Defendants'  deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s medical and therapy  records as to  Plaintiff’s healthcare providers are GRANTED.   The Motions  to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the  production of Plaintiff’s academic records as to Plaintiff’s educational  institutions are DENIED.   The Motions  to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the  production of Plaintiff’s records as to  Plaintiff’s employers are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The Court grants  the motion as to Plaintiff’s tax return documents only and denies the motion as  to the rest of Plaintiff’s employment records.      The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests  for monetary sanctions.    I. BACKGROUND   On  December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant sexual assault action against  Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of  Southern California; Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.; SAM National Properties,  LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM Property Management, LLC; JERO Enterprises, Inc.,  dba Brad Management; and Peter Hwang.    On May  18, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed JERO Enterprises, Inc., dba Brad Management  from the instant action without prejudice.   On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the  operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu  Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of Southern California; Sigma Alpha  Mu Fraternity, Inc.; SAM National Properties, LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM  Property Management, LLC; Peter Hwang; and The Perfect Event, Inc.  The  SAC asserts ten causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligence – Premises  Liability, (3) Negligence, (4) Negligent Security, (5) Negligent Hiring,  Supervision, and Retention, (6) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention,  (7) Assault, (8) Battery, (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and  (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.   On March 8, 2023, Cross-Complainant  The Perfect Event, Inc. (“TPE”) filed the at issue First Amended cross-complaint  against Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at  University of Southern California.  The cross-complaint at issue asserts  six causes of action for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution, (3)  Apportionment of Fault, (4) Contractual Indemnity, (5) Breach of Contract, and  (6) Declaratory Relief.     A.     Allegations  of the Operative Complaints   a.     Second  Amended Complaint   The SAC  alleges the following.    “On or about  January 21, 2020, THE PERFECT EVENT entered into a written agreement with SIGMA  ALPHA MU, one of the Defendants herein in which THE PERFECT EVENT agreed to  provide, inter alia, the following services to SIGMA ALPHA MU at MU THETA  CHAPTER’S event scheduled for January 25 and 26, 2020 on the Subject Property  described herein.”  (SAC ¶ 6.)    On January  25, 2020 and January 26, 2020, Plaintiff went to visit a friend at the  University of Southern California (“USC”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff  and her friends pre-partied at student housing which included consuming  alcohol” before heading to a party at Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta  Chapter at University of Southern California’s (“Mu Theta Chapter”) house (the  “Subject Property”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff was visibly intoxicated  and having some difficulty walking correctly before she entered the MU THETA  CHAPTER party on the Subject Property and expressed concern to the attendees  before she entered the Subject Property about whether she was too intoxicated  to attend.”  (SAC ¶ 23.)    “Plaintiff  then went to the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA ALPHA MU on the Subject Property to  attend a party. Plaintiff did not receive a bracelet or any mark which would  indicate that she was underage from individuals at the door of the or at any  time when she was on the Subject Property. The individuals who attended the  party with her were also underage and did not receive any bracelet or any mark  that would indicate that any of them were underage.”  (SAC ¶ 24.)   “At the time that she entered the party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff was  under the age of twenty-one years and a virgin for religious reasons.  Specifically, she had committed to waiting to have sex until she was married.  Even though Plaintiff had previously had boyfriends for more than a year at a  time, she did not have sex, since she was waiting until marriage.”  (SAC ¶  26.)    “At the MU  THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff’s underage friend was  served alcohol by a bartender at the party either hired by the Defendants and  each of them, or assigned by the Defendants and each of them, even though she  already was visibly intoxicated at the time and did not have any identification  to indicate that she was of legal age to consume alcohol.”  (SAC ¶  27.)  “MU THETA CHAPTER members, as well as bartenders, security personnel  and/or property managers and/or their agents on the Subject Property present  saw Plaintiff and her friends being handed and drinking alcohol and some of  their other activities at the party, even though they were underage.”   (SAC ¶ 32.)    “There was a  dance platform during the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property with  several tiers in a poorly lit room. The music was loud and it was difficult to  hear or to ask for assistance of any kind. Plaintiff and her friends were  dancing on the platform and her friends had expressed concern that Plaintiff  would fall or would not be able to navigate or get down from the platform.  There was no security or any individuals present near the platform to ensure  the safety of Plaintiff, her friends, or other guests, attendees, or invitees.  The lighting in the room with the platform was dim making the platform and the  room difficult to navigate. There were bottles of soda and beer on the floor  and strewn about the area as well as cups, plates of food, and other trash or  debris, both on tables and on the floor. There was no clear supervisor, manager  or individual overseeing the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property.  There was no security visible or actively present or monitoring the rooms or areas  in the MU THETA CHAPTER residence on the Subject Property during the event.  Some of the residents at the event were visibly or admittedly intoxicated,  impaired from marijuana use or were either seen or admitted to using or being  involved in illegal recreational drug use, including cocaine, on the Subject  Property on the dates of January 25th and 26th, 2020.”  (SAC ¶ 29.)    “MU THETA  CHAPTER had minimal safeguards in place to ensure the safety of the guests and  invitees at their event, including posting security at specific sites, having a  system in place to verify the age of attendees and invitees, to ensure the  safety of its invitees, guests, and attendees, and to ensure that underage  minors were not served or consuming alcohol on the premises on the Subject  Property during the course of the MU THETA CHAPTER party[.]”  (SAC ¶ 33.)    “At all  relevant times, Defendant HWANG was a member of the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA  ALPHA MU. Plaintiff never met Defendant HWANG before the party. Defendant HWANG  was sober during this MU THETA CHAPTER party which took place on January 25th  and 26th, 2020 on the Subject Property. At the time, HWANG was a resident on  the Subject Property.”  (SAC ¶ 35.)    “During the  party, after Plaintiff was already too intoxicated to know where she was, let  alone to give consent to any kind of sexual contact, Defendant HWANG forced  Plaintiff into the gymnasium of the MU THETA CHAPTER on the Subject Property.  There were representations made by SIGMA ALPHA MU and MU THETA CHAPTER members  that security was assigned to guard the door of the gymnasium during the MU  THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property on the dates alleged within this  Second Amended Complaint. There was no security at the gymnasium to prevent  fraternity members, guests, residents, attendees, or invitees from entering or  to check on whether any individuals had entered the gymnasium. If security had  been properly placed or in attendance on the Subject Property as represented as  a safety measure, this sexual assault and subsequent activity and damages may  not have taken place. Defendant HWANG then incapacitated the Plaintiff and  placed Plaintiff in a ‘Saturday Night’ hold, a wrestling or martial arts move  designed to subdue an opponent, or similar type hold to disable her so she  could not fend him off or get away from him. Defendant HWANG looped his arms  underneath Plaintiff’s shoulders and his hands were on Plaintiff’s shoulders  pulling her towards the ground. Defendant HWANG pushed Plaintiff’s face into a  mat on the floor so she could not move.”  (SAC ¶ 36.)    “Defendant  HWANG then raped Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 37.)  Defendant Hwang was sober  and Plaintiff was severely intoxicated and could not consent to sexual  activities.  (SAC ¶¶ 38-39.)  Further, “[Plaintiff] did not  consent to any sexual activities with Defendant HWANG, did not know him and did  not know his name. After assaulting the Plaintiff, HWANG then left the  gymnasium and left Plaintiff undressed and partly conscious on the gymnasium  floor in the gymnasium.”  (SAC ¶ 39.)  As a result of the rape,  Plaintiff sustained numerous physical injuries including “a. a swollen, black  eye; b. hand and fingerprint marks, as well as bruising and scratches on her  shoulders and arms; c. abrasions and scratch marks on her arms; d. vaginal  tearing and bleeding so severe that Plaintiff almost had to be hospitalized; e.  severe bruising and soreness; and f. a urinary tract infection.”  (SAC ¶  40.)    “Despite the  fact that Plaintiff was underage and visibly intoxicated when she arrived at  the party, that she drank additional alcohol and then became even more  intoxicated, none of the MU THETA CHAPTER members or any bartenders, security  personnel or property managers present, if any, intervened to make sure that  she was all right, whether she needed assistance or medical care, or took  measures to prevent Defendant HWANG from sexually assaulting Plaintiff or to  ensure similar type safety measures for its guests, invitees, attendees and  other individuals present on the Subject Property on the dates alleged herein  MU THETA CHAPTER and SIGMA ALPHA MU had no reasonable system or mechanism of  supervision or security on the Subject Property to prevent a fraternity member  from bringing an obviously drunk girl to the gymnasium and raping them. There  were no safety measures put into place to ensure that physical battery, such as  subduing an individual, did not happen which is a common sense safety  precaution at an event with a large group of people in which alcohol is  served.”  (SAC ¶ 45.)   b.     First Amended  Cross-Complaint   The First  Amended Cross-Complaint alleges the following.    TPE is an unknown corporation  analogized to do business and does business in California.  (FAX-Complaint  ¶ 2.)      On December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed  the instant underlying complaint against Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta  Chapter at University of Southern California (“Mu Theta”) regarding a sexual  assault that occurred on January 25, 2020 that took place at the fraternity  house and at a party hosted by Mu Theta.  (Id. ¶¶ 8-9.)     On or about January 21, 2020, Cross-Complainant TPE entered into  an Event Services Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement’) with  Cross-Defendants to provide security services at the Subject Property on  January 25 and 26, 2020. (Id. ¶ 13.)    As evidenced by the Agreement, Cross-Defendants were aware of  their obligations to indemnify and hold harmless TPE under the Agreement and  failed to ensure that MU THETA CHAPTER had retained sufficient general  liability insurance for the Event and TPE. (Id.  ¶ 17.)    Cross-Complainant  expressly denies any liability for Plaintiff’s alleged damages, if any, and  Cross-Complainant is entitled to indemnification from Cross-Defendants  accordingly. Therefore, Cross-Complainants requests an adjudication to  determine the respective portions or percentages of fault on the part of any  reason or entity which may have caused or contributed to the loss or damage  claimed by Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 24.)    B.      Motions to Quash   On December 13, 2023 and December 14,  2023, Plaintiff filed thirteen Motions to Quash Deposition Subpoenas Issued by  Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc., SAM National Properties, LLC, SAM  Property Management LLC, and SAM USC Housing LLC. The motions are listed below: 1.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to Hoag Memorial Hospital – Medical  Records; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13,  2023;  2.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Billing Records, as to Hoag Memorial Hospital;  Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023;  3.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Radiology Records, as to Hoag Memorial Hospital -  Radiology; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13,  2023;  4.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to Harbor Psychiatry & Mental Health;  Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023;  5.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to William E. Hunt M.S. LMFT; Restricted  Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023;  6.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to University of New Hampshire – SHARP  Program - Attn: Julia Lihzis; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions,  filed on December 13, 2023;  7.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to University of New Hampshire  – Attn: Robert Durant; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on  December 13, 2023;  8.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to Alvandi Law Group, P.C.;  Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023;  9.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to Newmarket Recreation;  Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023;  10.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to University of New Hampshire  – Office of Community Standards; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions,  filed on December 13, 2023 11.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Employment Records, as to Care.com; Restricted  Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 13, 2023;  12.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to South Orange County Community College  District; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 14,  2023; and  13.  Plaintiff Jane Doe’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Plaintiff’s Records, as to University of New Hampshire –  Registrar; Restricted Orders; and For Monetary Sanctions, filed on December 14,  2023.   Plaintiff’s arguments: ·       The subpoenas were directed to three  different subgroups of third parties: healthcare providers, employers, and  educational institutions. Each subpoena to a subgroup of third parties sought  identical documents. ·       Medical Records o   The  subpoenas to the healthcare providers sought  “Any and all documents and records pertaining to care, treatment and  examinations, including but not limited to [every type of record a healthcare  provider could conceivably have], and any other records, irrespective of date,  re [Jane Doe]” and additional documents. o   The subpoena’s document requests  are overbroad and seek irrelevant information. o   The requests are unrestricted with  respect to time, going back indefinitely into the past. The requests are also  unrestricted with respect to body parts or injury, instead of being limited to Plaintiff’s  injuries sustained as a result of the sexual assault o   The requests seek documents  protected by privileges and Plaintiff’s right to privacy, including, at a  minimum, the doctor-patient privilege, therapist-patient privilege, and sexual  assault counselor-victim privilege which are not reasonably necessary to prepare  a defense to the Plaintiff’s claims. ·       Employment  Records o   The  subpoenas to Plaintiff’s employers sought “Complete  employment records from the first date of employment to the present, including  but not limited to any records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or  electronically: earnings, all payroll, application for employment, work  absenteeism or time off, disciplinary records, benefits, incident reports,  W-2’s, 1099’s, claim records, pre-employment exam records, and employee  progress records for [Jane Doe]. o   The subpoena’s document requests are  overbroad, seek irrelevant information, seek documents protected by  California’s right to privacy, and seek documents protected by the taxpayer’s privilege. o   Taxpayers privilege §  Tax returns are not discoverable. Sav-On-Drugs  v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1; Webb v. Standard Oil Co. (1957)  49 Cal.2d 509.) Nor are the documents related thereto. Id.; Brown v.  Sup.Ct. (Executive Car Leasing) (1977) 71 CA3d 141, 144 (personal injury  plaintiff, claiming earnings loss, could not  be compelled to produce W-2 forms received from employer). §  Plaintiff’s tax related documents,  including W-2’s, 1099’s, and the like should be withheld from discovery due to  the privilege. Defendant’s request also requests wage statements. It would seem that Defendants do not need both  or all in relation to any production. ·       Educational Records o   “Any and all educational and health  care files pertaining to [Jane Doe], including but not limited to all  scholastic records, schedules, grade reports, attendance records,  accommodations, documents or records related to accommodation meetings,  disciplinary records, correspondence, health care records, medical reports, IEP  reports, and computer generated data. INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO RECORDS FROM  IRVINE VALLEY COLLEGE.” o   The  subpoena’s document requests are overbroad and seek irrelevant information §  Are  unrestricted with respect to time, going back indefinitely into the past and  prior to Plaintiff’s injuries sustained as a result of the allegations set  forth in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint §  Are  unrestricted with respect subject matter, instead of being limited to documents  Plaintiff’s injuries sustained as a result of the allegations set forth in the  Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint §  Seek  privileged documents protected by privileges and Plaintiff’s right to privacy,  including, at a minimum, the doctor-patient privilege, therapist-patient  privilege, and sexual assault counselor-victim privilege which are not  reasonably necessary to prepare a defense to the Plaintiff’s claims §  The subpoena  seeks information protected by the physician-patient privilege, psychotherapist  patient privilege, and sexual assault victim-counselor privilege. ·       In each  motion, Plaintiff is requesting that the Court  quash the subpoena in its entirety. In the alternative, Plaintiff requests that  the Court issue a protective order which narrowly specifies the compelled  disclosure. The protective order should limit responsive production to only the  medical and mental health records directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. o   If there are any disputed records then  the Plaintiff request that the Court review them in camera prior to production  to Defendants. o   Plaintiff is also requesting monetary  sanctions against Defendants.   On February 9, 2024, Defendants filed joint  oppositions to Plaintiff’s motions to quash, arguing: ·       Medical and Mental  Health Records o   The  documents requested by Defendants' subpoenas are relevant to confirm or refute  the legitimacy of Plaintiff s factual claims regarding the night in question as  well as the injuries and damages that Plaintiff claims she sustained as a  result of the incident. o   Moreover, the Psychotherapist-Patient  Privilege and the Sexual Assault Victim-Counselor Privilege, which Plaintiff  claims protects the disclosure of any of mental health records is inapplicable  here because Plaintiffs right to privacy is not absolute and she has placed her  mental health and emotional distress front and center in this litigation o   The scope of Defendants' subpoenas was also appropriate, given that  they were only issued to the providers that Plaintiff identified in her  discovery responses, and they were narrowly tailored to only seek records that  pertained to the injuries  that Plaintiff was alleging were the result of the incident. ·       Employment  Records o   The records requested from these employers  are necessary as the information contained therein will very likely confirm or  refute the veracity of Plaintiff s story with relation to her ability to work,  the effect on  her income, and her wages.  o   Plaintiff Has Waived Her Right to Privacy  Regarding the Requested Records. Because she has placed her ability to work  directly at issue in this action, she  has given up the right to completely shield her records from Defendants. o   The scope of Defendants' subpoenas was also  appropriate, given that they were only issued to the employers that Plaintiff identified in her  discovery responses, and they were narrowly tailored to only seek records that pertained to the injuries  that Plaintiff was alleging were the result of the incident. ·       Educational  Records o   Plaintiff’s Records From the University of  New Hampshire and South Orange County Community College District Should All Be  Produced to Evaluate Plaintiff’s Claimed Interference With Her Education, As  Well As Any Psychological and Emotional injuries, Her Treatment For Such, and Her Emotional Damages Claims   On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply, arguing:  ·        The Perfect  Event’s Submission Is Untimely And Should Be Disregarded ·        The Joint  Opposition includes confidential information as to the Plaintiff o    The parties  will go in ex parte on this matter so this issue may be moot at the time of  this hearing ·        Defendants’  Joint opposition fails to state a compelling interest for their non-specific  unrestricted requests o    The  California Courts have repeatedly held that merely because an individual files  a lawsuit in which emotional distress is claimed, the plaintiff is not opened  up to wholesale discovery of every aspect of their life, even if it might have  some bearing on emotional distress. (See, e.g., Britt v. Superior Court (1978)  20 Cal.3d844).   II. DISCUSSION   A.     Timeliness   As an initial  matter, Plaintiff argues in her Reply that Defendant The Perfect Event’s Joinder  Submission is untimely and should be disregarded.   Counsel  for The Perfect Event signed the Joint Opposition which was served on February  9, 2024. On February 12, 2024, The Perfect Event submitted a six-page Joinder  in Joint Defense Opposition To Plaintiff’s  Motions To Quash Plaintiff’s Mental Health, Counseling, And Therapy Records by  electronic service. The Plaintiff’s reply brief was due on February 16, 2024.  Plaintiff requests that The Perfect Event’s pleading be disregarded in its  entirety.   A court may properly consider  papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP section 1005(b) unless  “substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d);  Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The appearance of a party at the hearing of a  motion and his or her opposition to the motion on the merits is a waiver of any  procedural defects or irregularities in a motion.  (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.)   The Court  exercises its discretion to consider The Perfect Event’s pleading. The hearing  in this matter is scheduled for July 30, 2024. The Court does not find that  Plaintiff’s substantial rights were affected. The Court continues its  discussion on the merits of the motions.    B.     Legal  Standard    California  Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) provides:    If a subpoena  requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or  other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the  taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person  described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving  counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the  subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those  terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In  addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect  the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable  violations of the right of privacy of the person.    (Code  of Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010:    Unless otherwise limited by order of the court…any party may obtain  discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject  matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion  made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or  appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible  evidence.  Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party  seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.  Discovery may be  obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any  discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody,  condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information,  tangible thing, or land or other property.    (Ibid.)    “‘[F]or  discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a  party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’  and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is  discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’  These  rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery . . . and (contrary to  popular belief) fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz  v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, [internal citations  omitted].)      C.     Merits of the  Motion   Plaintiff moves to quash subpoenas for production of medical,  academic, and employment records on the following grounds: (1) the subpoenas  are overbroad. The requests are made without limitations as to time and subject  matter; (2) and the subpoenas threaten Plaintiff’s constitutionally protected  privacy rights. Plaintiff asserts she has a legally protected interest in each  of the categories of records sought by Defendants.   As a general rule, all  unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action  is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it  appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court. (1993) 5  Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be discovered impacts a  person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited protections come into play  for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993,  999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal and financial matters. (Id.)  The court must balance competing rights — the right of a litigant to discover  relevant facts and the right of an individual to maintain reasonable privacy —  in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Id.)    For discovery purposes,  information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the  case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior  Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)    The requests at issue were  sent by Defendants to Plaintiff’s medical providers, educational institutions,  and employers: Hoag Memorial Hospital, Harbor Psychiatry & Mental Health,  William E. Hunt M.S., LMFT, University of New Hampshire, Alvandi law Group,  P.C., Newmarket Recreation, Care.com, and South Orange County Community College  District. These requests seek all medical documents and records, all academic  and education records, and all employment documents and records.    a.     Medical and  Mental Health Records   Plaintiff  asserts that the requested medical and mental health documents will infringe  upon her right to privacy because the records are confidential, and Defendants’  request for that confidential information is overbroad.     A person’s inalienable right to privacy, as guaranteed by the  California and United States Constitutions, applies to their medical records. (Britt,  supra, 20 Cal.3d at 855-856; see also Palay v. Superior Court (1993)  18 Cal.App.4th 919, 931; John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th  1177, 1198.) A party’s medical records are also privileged under the  patient-physician privilege. (See Hale v. Superior Court (1994) 28  Cal.App.4th 1421, 1424.) “Discovery of constitutionally protected information  is on a par with discovery of privileged information.” (Tylo v. Superior  Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387.) Where the party filing an action  has arguably waived the privacy in their protected or privileged information by  filing a lawsuit, the waiver must be narrowly construed such that discovery is  only permitted of those matters directly relevant to the party’s claims. (Britt,  supra, 20 Cal.3d at 858-859.) Notwithstanding, the party still has privacy  rights as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the claimed injury.  (See id. at 864; Heller v. Norcal Mutual Insurance Co. (1994) 8  Cal.4th 30, 44.)   The Court finds the information being  requested is relevant since Plaintiff put her mental health at issue in her  claim for noneconomic damages for emotional distress, pain, and suffering.  “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title,  any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is  relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the  determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself  admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery  of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.)¿Defendants  seek Plaintiff’s medical and mental health records to show that Plaintiff’s  alleged harm came from another source, presumably to reduce or eliminate  Defendants’ liability. Defendants seek to compare Plaintiff’s health from  before and after the alleged sexual assault. The Court agrees that these  documents are relevant for that purpose.   However, the Court finds  the requests are overly intrusive and overbroad for the aims Defendants seek to  achieve. Defendants’  subpoenas essentially request all of Plaintiff’s medical records relating to  any issue for all of time.  While  Defendants will certainly be entitled to some of Plaintiff’s medical records,  the blanket request for everything from Plaintiff’s entire life is not  appropriate. Plaintiff correctly asserts that such a broad request, like Defendant’s  subpoena, violates her right to privacy and the third party's right to privacy.  The subpoena seeking every medical record regarding the Plaintiff is not  directly relevant and narrowly tailored to the issues in the case, which is  Plaintiff’s allegations of sexual assault that occurred in January 2020, nor do  Defendants demonstrate a compelling need for the discovery beyond seeking proof  of Plaintiff’s claimed damages. Defendants must make some effort to focus their  inquiry, perhaps starting with medical and mental health records beginning one  year before the assault or in the years afterward. Based on the foregoing, the Court will grant the  motions as to Plaintiff’s healthcare providers in their entirety. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motions  to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the  production of Plaintiff’s medical and therapy records to Plaintiff’s healthcare providers.   D.     Employment and Educational Records   Plaintiff  also asserts that the requested employment and academic records will infringe  upon her right to privacy.   The right  of privacy in the California Constitution (art. I, § 1), “protects the  individual's reasonable expectation of privacy against a serious  invasion.”  (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242,  1250 [italics in original]; See Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3  Cal.5th 531, 552 [“In Hill, we established a framework for evaluating potential  invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a  legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of  privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is  serious.  The party seeking information may raise in response whatever  legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the  party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same  interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A  court must then balance these competing considerations.”].)    In establishing a privacy interest  “the burden [is] on the party asserting a privacy interest to¿establish its  extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that  showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies,  as¿Hill¿requires.”  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531,  557.)  “Only obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal  autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.”  (Ibid.)    Thus, the burden is first on Plaintiff  as the objecting party to show the extent and seriousness of the prospective  invasion. It is clear that there is at least some privacy interest in  employment records. (See Board of Trustees v. Superior Court¿(1981) 119  Cal.App.3d 516, 528¿disapproved on other grounds by¿Williams v. Superior  Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, Fn. 8, [Finding that confidential  personnel files at a person's place of employment are within the zone of  privacy.]; accord El Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1987)  190 Cal.App.3d 342, 344 disapproved on other grounds by¿Williams v. Superior  Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, Fn. 8.)     First, regarding the request for tax  return documents, the Court finds Defendants have not shown a compelling need  for the tax documents and that no less intrusive alternatives are available. Defendants’  subpoena to Plaintiff’s employers includes requests for tax documents including  Plaintiff’s W-2’s and 1099’s. Plaintiff asserts her tax documents are protected  by the taxpayer privilege. A person  is privileged to withhold disclosure of their taxpayer information. (Brown  v. Superior Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141, 142-144 [finding plaintiff’s  W-2 tax forms were subject to privilege protecting taxpayer information from  disclosure despite defendants’ claim they were relevant to lost wages].)  Plaintiff has offered to confirm the dates of her  employment, job title and rate of pay as a less intrusive means. Further,  Defendant’s request for employment documents included a request for wage  statements, thus it seems less intrusive means exist to obtain the information  requested.    Next, regarding the rest of the  requested employment records and the requested academic documents, the Court  finds that while there is some privacy interest, Plaintiff has failed to show  the seriousness of the provided invasion. The alleged sexual assault occurred in January 2020.  Plaintiff started working for her oldest employer in 2020. (Ball Decl., Ex. 2,  pp. 7-8.) Therefore, Plaintiff does not have employment personnel documents  that would date past 2020. In addition, Plaintiff’s college academic records do  not date past 2019. (Ibid.) Therefore, the Court does not find the scope  of the requested records overbroad. Moreover, a protective order has been  stipulated between the parties.     While a compelling need is not  necessary the documents sought must still be directly relevant in balancing  disclosure to the right of privacy that exists in Plaintiff’s prior employer’s  personnel and academic records.  Therefore, “[t]he burden is on the party  seeking the constitutionally protected information to  establish¿direct¿relevance.”  (Davis v. Superior Court¿(1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) The Court finds the  requested documents are relevant. In Plaintiff’s response to Defendants’ Form  Interrogatories, she stated that she was suffering from  "stress, anxiety, bad dreams with no sleep, mental abuse, headaches,  emotional distress, trauma, night terrors, interruption of daily and  educational activities and pursuits, fear, interference with academic  pursuits and pursuit of a career, interference with personal, familial and  other interpersonal relationships, emotional damages associated with sexual assault,  harassment and bullying, and depression" due to the incident. (Ball Decl.,  Ex. 2. [emphasis added].) She also responded to Form Interrogatory No. 8.8 by  stating that "it is not currently known how the injuries from the incident  will affect her career and her earning capacity." (Ibid.) Thus, the  requested records are relevant to evaluate Plaintiff’s ability to work, her  loss of earnings claim, and claimed interference with her education. The Court  finds Plaintiff’s academic records and the non-tax return documents of Plaintiff’s  employment records are relevant and discoverable.    Accordingly,  the Court DENIES the Motions to Quash Defendants'  deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s records to Plaintiff’s educational  institutions. The Court GRANTS the Motions to Quash Defendants'  deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s records to Plaintiff’s employers as to  Plaintiff’s tax return documents only and DENIES the motion as to the rest of  Plaintiff’s employment records.     E.     Sanctions   In  conjunction with her 13 Motions to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for  records, Plaintiff seeks a total of $12,387.18 in sanctions from Defendants for  $952.86 per motion.   Sanctions may be awarded  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2(a), which provides:    “[I]n  making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987  or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of  the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the  requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”    Here, the  Court does not find Plaintiff has shown discovery abuse by Defendants and the  Court does not exercise its discretion to award sanctions.    III. DISPOSITION     The Motions  to Quash Defendants'  deposition subpoenas for the production of Plaintiff’s medical and therapy  records as to  Plaintiff’s healthcare providers are GRANTED.   The Motions to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the  production of Plaintiff’s academic records as to Plaintiff’s educational  institutions are DENIED.   The Motions to Quash Defendants' deposition subpoenas for the  production of Plaintiff’s records as to Plaintiff’s employers are GRANTED  in part and DENIED in part. The Court grants the motion as to Plaintiff’s tax  return documents only and denies the motion as to the rest of Plaintiff’s  employment records.     The Court  DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions. 07/30/2024Dept. 26Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding  DOE v. SIGMA ALPHA MU FRATERNITY, MU
THETA CHAPTER AT UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al. (21STCV46495) Counsel
for Plaintiff:  Hillary Johns (Hillary
Johns, Trial Lawyer) Counsel
for Defendant/Cross-Complainant The Perfect Event/opposing party: Domineh Fazel
(Lewis Brisbois
Bisgaard & Smith LLP) Counsel
for Defendant/Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc./moving party:
Mary Childs(Yoka
Smith LLP) demurrer to FIRST AMENDED CROSS-complaint
(filed by Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. on 4/18/24) TENTATIVE RULING The Court SUSTAINS Cross-Defendant
Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc.’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint with 20 days leave to
amend. I. BACKGROUND On
December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant sexual assault action against
Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of
Southern California (“Mu Theta”); Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“SAM”); SAM
National Properties, LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM Property Management, LLC;
JERO Enterprises, Inc., dba Brad Management; and Peter Hwang.  On May
18, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed JERO Enterprises, Inc., dba Brad Management
from the instant action without prejudice. On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Sigma Alpha Mu
Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at University of Southern California; Sigma Alpha
Mu Fraternity, Inc.; SAM National Properties, LLC; SAM USC Housing LLC; SAM
Property Management, LLC; Peter Hwang; and The Perfect Event, Inc.  The
SAC asserts ten causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligence – Premises
Liability, (3) Negligence, (4) Negligent Security, (5) Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention, (6) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention,
(7) Assault, (8) Battery, (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and
(10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. On June 13, 2024, Cross-Complainant
The Perfect Event, Inc. (“TPE”) filed the at issue First Amended cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta Chapter at
University of Southern California.  The First Amended cross-complaint at
issue asserts six causes of action for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2)
Contribution, (3) Apportionment of Fault, (4) Contractual Indemnity, (5) Breach
of Contract, and (6) Declaratory Relief.  On August 1, 2023, Sigma Alpha
Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“SAM”) was named as Moe 1 in the at issue cross-complaint.  A.     Allegations
of the Operative Complaints a.     Second
Amended Complaint The SAC
alleges the following.  “On or about
January 21, 2020, THE PERFECT EVENT entered into a written agreement with SIGMA
ALPHA MU, one of the Defendants herein in which THE PERFECT EVENT agreed to
provide, inter alia, the following services to SIGMA ALPHA MU at MU THETA
CHAPTER’S event scheduled for January 25 and 26, 2020 on the Subject Property
described herein.”  (SAC ¶ 6.)  On January
25, 2020 and January 26, 2020, Plaintiff went to visit a friend at the
University of Southern California (“USC”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff
and her friends pre-partied at student housing which included consuming
alcohol” before heading to a party at Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta
Chapter at University of Southern California’s (“Mu Theta Chapter”) house (the
“Subject Property”).  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff was visibly intoxicated
and having some difficulty walking correctly before she entered the MU THETA
CHAPTER party on the Subject Property and expressed concern to the attendees
before she entered the Subject Property about whether she was too intoxicated
to attend.”  (SAC ¶ 23.)  “Plaintiff
then went to the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA ALPHA MU on the Subject Property to
attend a party. Plaintiff did not receive a bracelet or any mark which would
indicate that she was underage from individuals at the door of the or at any
time when she was on the Subject Property. The individuals who attended the
party with her were also underage and did not receive any bracelet or any mark
that would indicate that any of them were underage.”  (SAC ¶ 24.) 
“At the time that she entered the party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff was
under the age of twenty-one years and a virgin for religious reasons.
Specifically, she had committed to waiting to have sex until she was married.
Even though Plaintiff had previously had boyfriends for more than a year at a
time, she did not have sex, since she was waiting until marriage.”  (SAC ¶
26.)  “At the MU
THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property, Plaintiff’s underage friend was
served alcohol by a bartender at the party either hired by the Defendants and
each of them, or assigned by the Defendants and each of them, even though she
already was visibly intoxicated at the time and did not have any identification
to indicate that she was of legal age to consume alcohol.”  (SAC ¶
27.)  “MU THETA CHAPTER members, as well as bartenders, security personnel
and/or property managers and/or their agents on the Subject Property present
saw Plaintiff and her friends being handed and drinking alcohol and some of
their other activities at the party, even though they were underage.” 
(SAC ¶ 32.)  “There was a
dance platform during the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property with
several tiers in a poorly lit room. The music was loud and it was difficult to
hear or to ask for assistance of any kind. Plaintiff and her friends were
dancing on the platform and her friends had expressed concern that Plaintiff
would fall or would not be able to navigate or get down from the platform.
There was no security or any individuals present near the platform to ensure
the safety of Plaintiff, her friends, or other guests, attendees, or invitees.
The lighting in the room with the platform was dim making the platform and the
room difficult to navigate. There were bottles of soda and beer on the floor
and strewn about the area as well as cups, plates of food, and other trash or
debris, both on tables and on the floor. There was no clear supervisor, manager
or individual overseeing the MU THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property.
There was no security visible or actively present or monitoring the rooms or areas
in the MU THETA CHAPTER residence on the Subject Property during the event.
Some of the residents at the event were visibly or admittedly intoxicated,
impaired from marijuana use or were either seen or admitted to using or being
involved in illegal recreational drug use, including cocaine, on the Subject
Property on the dates of January 25th and 26th, 2020.”  (SAC ¶ 29.)  “MU THETA
CHAPTER had minimal safeguards in place to ensure the safety of the guests and
invitees at their event, including posting security at specific sites, having a
system in place to verify the age of attendees and invitees, to ensure the
safety of its invitees, guests, and attendees, and to ensure that underage
minors were not served or consuming alcohol on the premises on the Subject
Property during the course of the MU THETA CHAPTER party[.]”  (SAC ¶ 33.)  “At all
relevant times, Defendant HWANG was a member of the MU THETA CHAPTER of SIGMA
ALPHA MU. Plaintiff never met Defendant HWANG before the party. Defendant HWANG
was sober during this MU THETA CHAPTER party which took place on January 25th
and 26th, 2020 on the Subject Property. At the time, HWANG was a resident on
the Subject Property.”  (SAC ¶ 35.)  “During the
party, after Plaintiff was already too intoxicated to know where she was, let
alone to give consent to any kind of sexual contact, Defendant HWANG forced
Plaintiff into the gymnasium of the MU THETA CHAPTER on the Subject Property.
There were representations made by SIGMA ALPHA MU and MU THETA CHAPTER members
that security was assigned to guard the door of the gymnasium during the MU
THETA CHAPTER party on the Subject Property on the dates alleged within this
Second Amended Complaint. There was no security at the gymnasium to prevent
fraternity members, guests, residents, attendees, or invitees from entering or
to check on whether any individuals had entered the gymnasium. If security had
been properly placed or in attendance on the Subject Property as represented as
a safety measure, this sexual assault and subsequent activity and damages may
not have taken place. Defendant HWANG then incapacitated the Plaintiff and
placed Plaintiff in a ‘Saturday Night’ hold, a wrestling or martial arts move
designed to subdue an opponent, or similar type hold to disable her so she
could not fend him off or get away from him. Defendant HWANG looped his arms
underneath Plaintiff’s shoulders and his hands were on Plaintiff’s shoulders
pulling her towards the ground. Defendant HWANG pushed Plaintiff’s face into a
mat on the floor so she could not move.”  (SAC ¶ 36.)  “Defendant
HWANG then raped Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 37.)  Defendant Hwang was sober
and Plaintiff was severely intoxicated and could not consent to sexual
activities.  (SAC ¶¶ 38-39.)  Further, “[Plaintiff] did not
consent to any sexual activities with Defendant HWANG, did not know him and did
not know his name. After assaulting the Plaintiff, HWANG then left the
gymnasium and left Plaintiff undressed and partly conscious on the gymnasium
floor in the gymnasium.”  (SAC ¶ 39.)  As a result of the rape,
Plaintiff sustained numerous physical injuries including “a. a swollen, black
eye; b. hand and fingerprint marks, as well as bruising and scratches on her
shoulders and arms; c. abrasions and scratch marks on her arms; d. vaginal
tearing and bleeding so severe that Plaintiff almost had to be hospitalized; e.
severe bruising and soreness; and f. a urinary tract infection.”  (SAC ¶
40.)  “Despite the
fact that Plaintiff was underage and visibly intoxicated when she arrived at
the party, that she drank additional alcohol and then became even more
intoxicated, none of the MU THETA CHAPTER members or any bartenders, security
personnel or property managers present, if any, intervened to make sure that
she was all right, whether she needed assistance or medical care, or took
measures to prevent Defendant HWANG from sexually assaulting Plaintiff or to
ensure similar type safety measures for its guests, invitees, attendees and
other individuals present on the Subject Property on the dates alleged herein
MU THETA CHAPTER and SIGMA ALPHA MU had no reasonable system or mechanism of
supervision or security on the Subject Property to prevent a fraternity member
from bringing an obviously drunk girl to the gymnasium and raping them. There
were no safety measures put into place to ensure that physical battery, such as
subduing an individual, did not happen which is a common sense safety
precaution at an event with a large group of people in which alcohol is
served.”  (SAC ¶ 45.) b.     First Amended
Cross-Complaint The First
Amended Cross-Complaint alleges the following.  TPE is an unknown corporation
analogized to do business and does business in California.  (FAX-Complaint
¶ 2.)    On December 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed
the instant underlying complaint against Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Mu Theta
Chapter at University of Southern California (“Mu Theta”) regarding a sexual
assault that occurred on January 25, 2020 that took place at the fraternity
house and at a party hosted by Mu Theta.  (Id. ¶¶ 8-9.)   On or about January 21, 2020, Cross-Complainant TPE entered into
an Event Services Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement’) with
Cross-Defendants to provide security services at the Subject Property on
January 25 and 26, 2020. (Id. ¶ 13.)  As evidenced by the Agreement, Cross-Defendants were aware of
their obligations to indemnify and hold harmless TPE under the Agreement and
failed to ensure that MU THETA CHAPTER had retained sufficient general
liability insurance for the Event and TPE. (Id.
¶ 17.)  Cross-Complainant
expressly denies any liability for Plaintiff’s alleged damages, if any, and
Cross-Complainant is entitled to indemnification from Cross-Defendants
accordingly. Therefore, Cross-Complainants requests an adjudication to
determine the respective portions or percentages of fault on the part of any
reason or entity which may have caused or contributed to the loss or damage
claimed by Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 24.)  B.    
Demurrer On April 18,
2024, Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, Inc. (“Cross-Defendant” or
“SAM”) filed the instant demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. SAM demurs to each of Cross-Complainant’s causes of action for failure
to state a claim.  Cross-Complainant The Perfect Event (“Cross-Complainant” or “TPE”)
filed an opposition, arguing that the FAX-Complaint sufficiently sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action. SAM filed a reply maintaining that FAX-Complaint failed to plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action.   II. ANALYSIS A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) B.     Request for
Judicial Notice In Cross-Defendant SAM’s demurrer, it requests judicial notice of
the two pending motions for summary judgment filed by the Defendants in this
action pursuant to Evidence Code § 352. SAM states this in a footnote in the
motion. (Demurrer, p. 8, fn. 1.) However,
California Rules of Court Rule
3.1113(l) requires any request for judicial notice to be made in a separate
document. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(l).) Thus, SAM’s
request for judicial notice is DENIED. C.     Meet and
Confer Requirement  “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)   Here, counsel for Cross-Defendant submitted a declaration
stating he telephonically met and conferred with Cross-Complainant’s counsel. (Ball Decl., ¶ 12.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its obligations to
meet and confer and the Court proceeds on the merits.  D.     First,
Second and Third Causes of Action: (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution,
(3) Apportionment of Fault SAM argues
that Cross-Complainant’s equitable indemnity, apportionment
of fault, and contribution claims against SAM fail because there are no
allegations linking SAM to the alleged sexual assault of Plaintiff at the party
hosted by Mu Theta.  a.     Alter Ego
Liability “In California, two conditions must be met before the alter
ego doctrine will be invoked.  First, there must be such a unity of
interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality
exist.  Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”  (Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App 4th 523, 538; Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300.)  In Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the
Court of Appeal held the following was sufficient to allege alter ego
liability:   Rutherford
alleged that Caswell dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and
ownership existed between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and
conduit for Caswell's affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR
failed to abide by the formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used
PDR assets as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would
promote injustice. These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First
Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910,
915–916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657. As in First Western, “[a]ssuming these facts
can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego
principle.” (Id. at p. 916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657.)  Defendants
argue that Rutherford failed to allege specific facts to support an alter ego
theory, but Rutherford was required to allege only “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, 67 Cal.Rptr.3d 330, 169 P.3d 559.) Moreover, the “less particularity [of
pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge
of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff,”
which certainly is the case here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474, 20 Cal.Rptr. 609, 370 P.2d 313.) Therefore, we
affirm the trial court's ruling that Rutherford sufficiently pled an alter ego
theory of liability.  In
Cross-Complainant’s opposition, it argues that SAM can be held liable for the equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault, and contribution
causes of action because SAM is the alter ego of Mu Theta. Cross-Complainant
asserts that the allegations in Plaintiff’s SAC is incorporated into the First
Amended Cross-Complaint, and the SAC contains allegations that SAM is the alter
ego of Mu Theta.  However, upon
review of the SAC, there are no allegations that Mu Theta is the alter ego of
SAM. The SAC alleges the following: “At all times relevant hereto, Defendants SAM USC HOUSING, SAM
NATIONAL PROPERTIES AND SAM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE, were
the alter egos of SIGMA ALPHA MU, and there exists, at all relevant times
herein mentioned, has existed and continues to exist, a unity of ownership and
interest between Defendants, SAM USC HOUSING, SAM NATIONAL PROPERTIES, SAM
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE and SIGMA ALPHA MU and each of
them such that any separateness between them has ceased to exist, if it ever
existed, in that SIGMA ALPHA MU and DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE, completely controlled
, dominated, managed, and operated the Defendants SAM USC HOUSING, SAM NATIONAL
PROPERTIES and SAM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE, to further its
goals, financial interests, to promote SIGMA ALPHA MU and in furtherance of the
interests and goals of SIGMA ALPHA MU, AND DOES 1-50, INCLUSIVE.” (SAC
¶ 16.)  The SAC only alleges that the other
defendants in this case: SAM National Properties, LLC, SAM Property Management,
LLC, and SAM USC Housing, LLC, are the alter egos of SAM. (SAC ¶¶ 15-19.) The
SAC and the First Amended Cross-Complaint fail to contain any allegations of
alter ego liability, such as the commingling of funds, lack of separateness, etc.,
as to SAM and Mu Theta. Therefore,
the Court does not find SAM can be held liable for the equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault, and contribution
causes of action based on alter ego liability.  b.     Direct
Liability “To state a claim for equitable indemnity, a
defendant must allege the same harm for which he may be held liable is properly
attributable—at least in part—to the cross-defendant.”  (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real
Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.) The First Amended Cross-Complaint
alleges the following: Hwang, Plaintiff’s alleged assailant, was a member of
both Mu Theta Chapter and SAM (FAX-Complaint ¶
9); that the Event Services Agreement was entered into by and between TPE and SAM
(FAX-Complaint ¶ 10); that there is a lease,
living arrangement, or other legal and contractual arrangement as to use of the
subject property where the alleged assault took place that existed between Mu
Theta Chapter and SAM (FAX-Complaint ¶ 11);
and that SAM derived a social, financial, business, and other commercial and
networking benefit from the use and enjoyment of the subject property and that SAM
further had a responsibility to manage and maintain the property. (FAX-Complaint ¶ 12); that the Event Services
Agreement made SAM aware of its obligations to indemnify and hold TPE harmless
under the Agreement and failed to ensure that Mu Theta had retained sufficient
general liability insurance of its own for the event and TPE (FAX-Complaint ¶ 17); that SAM provided training to
its fraternity members, including Hwang, on issues relating to sexual
harassment (FAX-Complaint ¶ 20); that SAM was,
at all times fully aware, of the fact that Mu Theta had retained security
services for events at the subject property (FAX-Complaint
¶ 21); and that SAM was fully aware that Mu Theta was fully reliant on it to
secure and maintain an insurance policy from which coverage would be extended
to Mu Theta and provide any applicable protections for any damages found owed
to Plaintiff in this matter. (FAX-Complaint
¶22). SAM argues Cross-Complainant
fails to allege any basis on
which SAM was negligent and liable with Mu Theta for the damages suffered by
Plaintiff. A valid claim of indemnity requires that there must be a showing of
fault on the part of the indemnitor and resulting damages to the indemnitee for
which the indemnitor is contractually or equitably responsible. (Bailey v.
Safeway, Inc., (2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 206.) Here, the Court agrees that the First Amended Cross-Complaint fails to allege
sufficient facts. Cross-Complainant had alleged that SAM entered into the Event
Services Agreement with Cross-Complainant TPE based on alter ego liability.
Cross-Complainant TPE and Mu Theta had entered into an Event Services Agreement
to provide security services at the Subject Property on January 25 and
26, 2020. (FAX-Complaint
¶
13.) Cross-Complainant alleges that based on the agreement, Cross-Defendants were aware of their obligations to indemnify and
hold harmless TPE under the Agreement. (FAX-Complaint
¶
17.) However, as discussed above, it is not
sufficiently pled that SAM is an alter ego of Mu Theta. Therefore, liability on
this ground fails. Further, the First-Amended Cross-Complaint’s allegations don’t
support an argument for liability on behalf of SAM. For example, the First
Amended Cross-Complaint doesn’t specify how a lease between SAM and Mu Theta
would hold SAM liable for the alleged sexual assault. In addition, the fact
that SAM provided sexual harassment training to Mu Theta members does not show
negligence or liability. In sum, the allegations added to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint do not establish how and on what basis SAM was negligent or
liable.  Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to the first, second and third causes of action.  E.    
Fourth Cause of Action: Contractual Indemnity SAM
demurs to the fourth cause of action on the grounds that it was impermissibly
added to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. The prior Cross-Complaint had only
alleged a contractual indemnity claim against Mu Theta, and not SAM.  “Following
an order sustaining a demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend
his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order.” (Harris v.
Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023). The plaintiff
may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having
obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within the
scope of the order granting leave to amend. (See Patrick v. Alacer Corp.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015, 84 Cal.Rptr.3d 642 [acknowledging rule but
finding it inapplicable where new cause of action “directly responds” to trial
court's reason for sustaining the demurrer].)  The
Court finds that the contractual indemnity cause of action against SAM was not
permissibly added. The
order sustaining the demurrer to the prior Cross-Complaint with leave to amend
granted leave to amend the causes of action asserted in the prior Cross-Complaint, not
leave to allege new causes of action against SAM. Accordingly,
SAM’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. F.     
Fifth Cause of Action: Breach of Contract SAM demurs to the fifth cause of action because
SAM did not enter into a contract with Cross-Complainant. SAM asserts that the Event
Services Agreement was only entered into between Mu Theta and
Cross-Complainant, SAM was not a party to the contract.  To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.”  (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also
“plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.) In opposition, Cross-Complainant asserts that
SAM is an alter ego of Mu Theta and thus a party to the contract that was
allegedly breached. However, as discussed above, the Court does not find that
Cross-Complainant has sufficiently alleged alter ego liability between SAM and
Mu Theta. Therefore, Cross-Complainant has not established SAM was a party to
the contract. Accordingly, SAM’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. G.   
Sixth Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief “To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.) 
“[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.”  (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, cleaned up.) The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges: “There presently exists a controversy between Cross-Complainant,
on the one hand, and Cross-Defendants and each of them, on the other hand, in
that Cross-Complainants contend that if Plaintiff sustained damages and
injuries for the reasons as alleged in the Complaint, and is awarded judgment
for which Cross-Complainants are held responsible, then Cross-Complainants are
entitled to indemnification to recover against Cross-Defendants, and each of
them, the amount of any judgment or judgments that may be entered against
Cross-Complainant in the defense of this action including, without limitation,
attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses for the appropriate investigation and
conduct of its defense; whereas Cross-Defendants dispute and deny the
contentions of the Cross-Complainant contained in this Cross-Complaint and
assert that they have no obligation to Cross-Complainant. Accordingly, a
declaration of this Court is necessary to determine the rights and obligations
existing between Cross-Complainant and each Cross-Defendant, and the same can
be determined and declared in the present action thus avoiding a circuitry of
actions and multiplicity of suits.” (FAX-Complaint ¶¶
51-52.)    The Court
finds the sixth cause of action is not sufficiently set forth. It is cumulative
of the prior causes of action. No new or additional declaration is sought in
this cause of action that is not covered by the prior causes of action. SAM’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  III. DISPOSITION 





















































































































































































































































































































































The Court SUSTAINS Cross-Defendant Sigma Alpha Mu
Fraternity, Inc.’s demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint with
20 days leave to amend.