

 
BACKGROUND
            
            On September
28, 2022, Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants (1) The Coal Miner’s Son, LLC aka Coal Miners Son LLC
dba Parallel Pizza adba Buttermilk adba Buttermilk Fried Chicken (“COAL”), (2)
James Nunn aka James Nunn Jr aka James J Nunn aka James J Nunn Jr aka James
Joseph Nunn aka Joseph James Nunn aka Joseph Nunn (“Nunn”), and (3) Does 1
through 10, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) open book account,
(2) account stated, (3) reasonable value, (4) breach of contract, and (5)
personal guaranty. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges the following, among other things. Four years before the
commencement of this action, the defendants became indebted to “Plaintiff’s
Assignor” (the American Textile Maintenance Company dba Republic Master Chefs)
in the amount of $6,927.53 for goods the assignor sold and delivered and/or
services the assignor rendered to the defendants. Compl., ¶¶ 1, 2, 13. “Prior
to the commencement of this action, the claims herein sued upon were assigned
to Plaintiff by Plaintiff’s Assignor for collection purposes ….” Compl., ¶ 4. 
 
            On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motions, seeking orders (1)
compelling COAL and Nunn (collectively, “Defendants”) to serve their initial
responses to Plaintiff’s first set of demands for inspection, and (2) imposing
sanctions against Defendants and their counsel of record, Peter C. Freeman,
Esq. 
 
            On May 31,
2024, Defendants filed a joint opposition to the motions. 
 
            On June 6,
2024, Plaintiff filed its reply briefs. 
 
            A non-jury
trial is set for August 12, 2024. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
This Court entered judgment against
Felix and Yelena Bobritsky for $7,412, which remains unsatisfied. Therefore,
Plaintiffs served “Interrogatories to Enforce Judgment” on those defendants,
but both have refused to respond to the discovery. 
 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff
served a First Demand for Production and Inspection of Documents and Other
Tangible Things on COAL (the “COAL Demand”). 
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff
received COAL’s written responses to the discovery request. 
 
However, COAL
failed to produce the documentation in response to COAL Demand, Nos. 1, 2, 3,
and 5, even though the defendant had stated it would produce said documents.
Each of the document requests in question focuses on the core issues of this
case and is limited to the relevant time and scope. The defendant’s statement
of compliance and subsequent failure to produce responsive documents
constitutes the quintessential example of bad faith and abusive discovery
tactics.
 
Similarly, Plaintiff served a First
Demand for Production and Inspection of Documents and Other Tangible Things on
Nunn (the “Nunn Demand”). 
 
However, Nunn failed to produce
documents responsive to Nunn Demand, Nos. 1 and 2, even though Nunn had stated
he would produce the documents. 
 
Therefore, the Court should order
the Defendants to provide the relevant documents responsive to the demands and
impose sanctions of $1,672.27 for each motion against Defendants and their
counsel. 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            The motions
are moot because Defendants have produced the documents at issue. 
 
            Sanctions
are not warranted because the Defendants intended to produce all available
documents, believing they would find them. However, Defendants continued to
search for other responsive documents, but have been unable to locate them.  Therefore, sanctions over $3,300 against
Defendants would be impermissibly punitive. In addition, sanctions against
defense counsel are improper since Plaintiff has not offered any evidence
showing that counsel’s advice caused Defendants’ inability to produce the
requested documents. 
 
REPLY
 
            Defendants’
late-served documents remain deficient. 
 
First, Defendants’
responses do not comply with Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.230 or
2031.280 because Defendants did not (1) identify
which of their produced documents are responsive to which request and (2)
supplement their original responses, stating that they could not comply to each
request and provide the reason for noncompliance. 
 
Second, Defendants combined their
responses, violating Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, which requires each
party to respond to each request separately. 
 
Finally, Defendants’ responses are
not actually responsive to the demands at issue. 
 
Sanctions are warranted because of
the above and the fact that Defendants did not comply with the parties’ agreed
deadline to produce the responsive documents by May 10, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO DEMAND
FOR PRODUCTION
 
A.        Legal
Standard 
Within 30 days after service of a demand for inspection, the
responding party shall serve responses to the discovery unless, on motion of
the propounding party, the court has shortened the time for response, or, on
motion of the responding party, the court has extended the time for response.  Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).
 
Failure to serve timely responses results in the responding party
waiving their right to object to the discovery unless the court, on motion,
relieves the party from the waiver.  Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a). 
 
If a party fails to serve timely responses, the party making the
discovery request may move for an order compelling responses.  Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b). 
 
Monetary sanctions shall be imposed against any party who
unsuccessfully opposes motions to compel responses to requests for production
of documents unless the court finds that “the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c). 
 
B.        Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendants’ initial response to COAL Demand, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and
5, and Nunn Demand, Nos. 1 and 2. 
 
            Nunn Demand
Nos. 1 and 2 asked Nun to produce. 
 
·        
The original and/or a legible copy of any and
all WRITINGS or any other written documents or written records of communication
between Republic Master Chefs and Defendant.
 
·        
The original and/or a legible copy of any and
all WRITINGS or other written documents or records of any sort which YOU intend
to utilize as a basis or ground for any defense in this action which are not
privileged.
 
Motion to Compel Nunn’s Responses, Exhibit 1, p. 3:7-11. 
 
            COAL
Demand, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 5 asked COAL to produce the following.
 
·        
The original and/or a legible copy of any and
all WRITINGS or any other written documents or written records of communication
between Republic Master Chefs and Defendant.
·        
The original and/or a legible copy of any and
all WRJTINGS or other written documents or records of any sort which YOU intend
to utilize as a basis or ground for any defense in this action which are not
privileged.
·        
Produce any and all WRITINGS, as that term is
defined by Evidence Code §250, reflecting and/or relating to payments made by
defendant to Republic Master Chefs, including but not limited to copies of
checks.
·        
Produce all WRJTINGS, as that term is defined by
Evidence Code section 250, reflecting and/or relating to any written complaints
YOU made to Republic Master Chefs regarding the goods or services provided
under the Rental Agreement.
 
Motion to Compel COAL’s Responses, Exhibit 1, p. 3:7-14,
3:18-20. 
 
Defendants argue in their
opposition that the motions are moot because they already produced the
responsive documents at issue. (See Opposition, Declaration of Peter C.
Freeman, 4; Exhibit 1 – a copy of the responses [attaching two (2) Exhibits in
response to all requests for production of documents at issue above].)
 
            As
Plaintiff argues, the response Defendants recently served is not code compliant.
For example, Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280, subd. (a) states: “Any
documents or category of documents produced in response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific
request number to which the documents respond.” Here, Defendants did not
identify which document was responsive to which demand. In addition, although
Defendants can respond to the demands by stating that they lack the ability to
comply with the demands: “A representation of inability to comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a)(2); 2031.230. Here,
Defendants argue in their opposition that they could not find certain documents
responsive to the demands at issue yet failed to include the required statement
of inability in their verified responses to the demands. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds it proper to grant Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendants’
responses to COAL Demand, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 5, and Nunn Demand, Nos. 1 and 2. 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks sanctions of $1,672.27 per motion (a total of $3,344.54) against
Defendants and their counsel. The requested amount of $1,672.27 consists of 2
hours Plaintiff’s counsel spent reviewing Defendants’ responses, drafting the
meet and confer correspondence, and preparing the instant motion, 2 hours
counsel anticipated spending reviewing the opposition, preparing the reply
brief, and preparing for/attending the hearing, a total of 4 hours at counsels
billing rate of $400 per hour ($1,600), plus a $60 filing fee, and a $12.27 e-filing
fee. (Motions, Declarations of Joseph Yoo, ¶ 8.)
 
            The Court
finds it proper to impose sanctions because Defendants failed to serve timely responses
to the demands at issue and meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding their
inability to find the responsive documents, consequently necessitating the
instant motions. 
 
Defendants argue that sanctions “in
excess” of $3,300 would be impermissibly punitive. 
 
A court has discretion to fix the
amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v.
Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791. The Court will
only impose sanctions of $1,344, with each defendant paying Plaintiff sanctions
of $672. The request for sanctions against defense counsel is denied. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
            The Court rules on the motions as
follows. 
 
The Motions to Compel Defendants The Coal Miner’s Son,
LLC and James Nunn’s initial responses to Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc.’s First Demand for Identification is GRANTED as follows:
 
 The Defendants are
ordered to serve code-compliant responses to the demands at issue within 30
days of this Court’s ruling. 
 
The Defendants are further ordered to each pay sanctions
of $672 to the plaintiff within 30 days of this Court’s ruling.  
 
            The Moving Party is ordered to give
notice and to attach a copy of the Court’s Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A”
to said notice, as the final order of the Court.   
 
. 