

 
BACKGROUND      
 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff Los
Angles Federal Credit Union (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action by filing a “Complaint
Pursuant to CCP § 366.2 And Probate Code § 5670, et seq.) for: Breach of Written
Contract” (the “Complaint”) against Defendants Prennella Johnson aka Prenella
Royal, and Does 1 through 40, inclusive. 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On November 4, 2008, Mary Frances Adams (“Adams”), the
mother of Defendant Prennella Johnson aka Prenella Royal, entered into a
written Visa credit card agreement with Plaintiff. Compl., ¶ 8; Exhibit A – a
copy of the contract. Plaintiff has duly performed all of the conditions
precedent on its part required to be performed under the loan agreement.
Defendant (as the surviving heir of MOTHER is liable to Plaintiff) pursuant to
Probate Code § 5672 to the extent MOTHER’s property passed to Defendant without
administration. Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that all
of MOTHER’s property passed without administration to Defendant after MOTHER
passed away on September 20, 2023.” Compl., ¶ 9. “No part of said $8,713.22
Visa card balance due has been paid, although payment has been demanded and
there is now due, owing and unpaid from Defendant to Plaintiff the sum of
$8,713.22.” Compl., ¶ 10.
 
On April 9, 2024, Defendant
Prennella Johnson (“Defendant”), in pro per, filed the instant demurrer (titled
motion to dismiss). 
 
On May 16, 2024,
the Court held a hearing on the demurrer, but continued the hearing because
Defendant had failed to file a declaration showing she had met and conferred
with Plaintiff before filing the demurrer. The Court ordered the parties to
meet and confer before the next hearing on June 13, 2024, and Defendant to file
and serve a supplemental declaration, at least five (5) court days before the
next hearing, informing the Court about the outcome of the meet and confer. The
Court warned Defendant that failure to file that supplemental declaration may
result in the Motion being placed off calendar or denied.
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
its opposition to the demurrer. 
 
As of June 11, 2024, no reply has
been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
The Complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because
Defendant is the wrong defendant; she has never entered into a written visa
credit card agreement with Plaintiff and her name is not mentioned on the
credit card agreement attached to the Complaint. The signatory to the agreement
shows it was signed by Mary F Adams, deceased, and Claudia Johnson, deceased.  Defendant is the daughter of Mary F. Adams. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Defendant
did not meet and confer with Plaintiff or serve the moving papers on Plaintiff.
Plaintiff only found out about the demurrer through the minute order that the
clerk mailed to Plaintiff. 
 
            In any
event, Opposition asserts that the Complaint states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Defendant. Defendant is the beneficiary of
Decedent Mary Frances Adams’s estate and, therefore, liable for the decedent’s
debt. As shown in the decedent’s death certificate, the decedent died on
September 20, 2023, and Defendant is listed on the death certificate as the decedent’s
beneficiary. Defendant also admits that she is the daughter of the decedent.
Therefore, pursuant to Probate Code sections 5672 and 5674, Defendant is liable
for the decedent’s death since there is no evidence that any administration of
the estate (i.e., probate) has been filed with the Los Angeles County Superior
Court. 
 
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          DEMURRER
A.        Legal
Standard 
A party may
demurer a pleading on several statutory grounds, including that “[t]he pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).
“A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. “‘We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. [Citation.] We also
consider matters which may be judicially noticed.’ [Citation.] Further, we give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts
in their context.” Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.
“If a
complaint does not state a cause of action, but there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment, leave to amend must be
granted.” Milligan v. Golden Gate Bridge Highway & Transportation Dist.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.
B.        Request for Judicial Notice 
 
            On May 20, 2024, Defendant filed a request
for judicial notice of Mary Frances Adams’s Certificate of Death issued by the
County of Los Angeles Department of Public Health (Exhibit A). 
 
            The request for judicial notice is
granted. See People v. Terry (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 432, 439
(“Evidence Code section 452 provides that judicial notice may be taken of
official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of a
state and of facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute
and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy. Accordingly, judicial notice may be taken of
a death certificate”).
 
C.        Meet and Confer
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. ….
 
(1)  
As part of the meet and confer process, the demurring
party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it believes are
subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of the
deficiencies. The party who filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer
shall provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally
sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency. 
 
(2)  
The parties shall meet and confer at least 5 days
before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to
meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due,
the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time
within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before
the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty
of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension
shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was previously due, and
the demurring party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court order upon a
showing of good cause.
 
(3)  
The demurring party shall file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration stating either of the following:
 
(A)  
The means by which the demurring party met and
conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that
the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the
demurrer.
 
(B)  
That the party who filed the pleading subject to
demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the demurring
party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a) (emphasis added). 
 
On May 16, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing to allow Defendant to meet and confer with Plaintiff
regarding the issues raised in the demurrer. 
 
The Court
ordered Defendant to file and serve a supplemental declaration, at least five
(5) court days before the next hearing, informing the Court about the outcome
of the meet and confer. The Court warned that failure to do so may result in
the motion being placed off calendar or denied. 
 
As of June 11, 2024, Defendant had
not filed the supplemental declaration. 
 
Therefore, there
is no proof that Defendant met and conferred with Plaintiff. Indeed, on May 20,
2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition to the motion. In support of that
opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration, attesting that
Defendant never served Plaintiff with the moving papers and did not call
counsel to meet and confer (she only called to ask why she was being sued for
her mother’s debt). Opposition, Declaration of Alana Anaya (“Anaya Decl.”), ¶
2. The only reason counsel became aware of the subject demurrer was because
counsel received the Court’s minute order through the mail. Anaya Decl., ¶
3.  
 
Accordingly, the Court finds it
proper to overrule the demurrer based on Defendant’s failure to meet and confer
with Plaintiff. 
 
Even if the
Court considered the demurrer on its merits, it would still overrule it because
the Complaint has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As
Plaintiff argues in its opposition, Probate Code section 5672 states: “Each
beneficiary is personally liable to the extent provided in Section 5674 for the
unsecured debts of the transferor. Any such debt may be enforced against the
beneficiary in the same manner as it could have been enforced against the
transferor if the transferor had not died.” Section 5674 states: “A beneficiary
is not liable under Section 5672 if proceedings for the administration of
the transferor’s estate are commenced and the beneficiary satisfies the
requirements of Section 5677 or 5678.” Prob. Code, § 5674, subd. (a) (emphasis
added). Here, the Complaint alleges: “Defendant (as the surviving heir of [the
decedent] is liable to Plaintiff) pursuant to Probate Code § 5672 to the extent
[the decedent’s] property passed to Defendant without administration.
Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that all of [decedent’s]
property passed without administration to Defendant after [the decedent] passed
away on September 20, 2023.” Compl., ¶ 9 (emphasis added). Therefore, based on
Probate Code sections 5672 and 5674, the Complaint has alleged facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action against Defendant. 
 
For those reasons, the demurrer is
OVERRULED. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant Prennella Johnson’s Demurrer (titled Motion to
Dismiss) is OVERRULED.  Defendant is ordered
to file an answer or responsive pleading to the Complaint within 30 days. 
 
            Plaintiff
Los Angeles Federal Credit Union is ordered to give notice and to attach
a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A” to said notice, as
the final order of the Court.
 