    BACKGROUND         On April 12,  2019, Plaintiff Scot L. Bennett (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Luis Hernandez, Damien Hernandez (a minor), John Koutsoukos, “Jane  Doe” Koutsoukos, and Does 1 to 50, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of  contract, (2) fraud, (3) common counts, and (4) conversion.   The Attachments  to the Complaint allege the following.  Plaintiff  is a senior paralegal with 30 years of experience. While sitting in a courtroom  at Stanley Mosk Courthouse, Plaintiff heard the court deny a petition for  approval of a minor’s compromise that had been filed by Defendant Luis  Hernandez (“Hernandez”) on behalf of Defendant Damien Hernandez (a minor and Hernandez’s  son). Outside the courtroom, Plaintiff approached Hernandez, the parties spoke  about the case, and Plaintiff stated he will refer Hernandez to attorney John  Koutsoukos (“Koutsoukos”). Plaintiff then brought the case to the Koutsoukos  law firm and had Hernandez sign a standard contingency fee retainer agreement  with everyone understanding that Plaintiff was a third-party beneficiary to the  agreement and that Plaintiff would be given referral fees from Koutsoukos’s  attorney fees. However, when the Damien Hernandez case settled, Koutsoukos cut  off all communication with Plaintiff and kept all fees he received to himself,  depriving Plaintiff of at least $6,250. Around the same time Plaintiff  introduced Hernandez to Koutsoukos and Hernandez signed the contingency fee  agreement, Koutsoukos and Plaintiff entered into a separate agreement whereby  they agreed, among other things, that Koutsoukos would open a private general  practice and Plaintiff would lend his civil litigation knowledge and expertise  to the firm. However, Koutsoukos reneged on that agreement by failing to  advertise his practice, affecting Plaintiff’s potential income.    On September 21, 2020, Koutsoukos  filed his Answer to the complaint.    On March 15, 2022, the case was  called for trial, and Plaintiff failed to appear. Therefore, the case was  dismissed without prejudice.    On March 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed  a motion to set aside the dismissal, arguing he could not appear because he  could not catch a train on time and call the courtroom. Minute Order dated  April 18, 2022, p. 2, the second to the last paragraph.   On April 18, 2022, the Court granted the motion to set aside the  dismissal. However, the Court dismissed the Complaint as to Defendants  Hernandez and Damien Hernandez pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  583.210, which states in part: “The summons and complaint shall be served upon  a defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the  defendant.” Code Civ. Proc., § 583.210,  subd. (a). The Court set the non-jury trial date to September 14, 2022.    On September 14, 2022, the  case was again called for trial, but Plaintiff failed to appear. Therefore, the  case was dismissed without prejudice.   On October 28, 2022, Plaintiff  filed another motion to set aside the dismissal entered on September 14, 2022,  arguing that he could not make it to trial on time because he had gone to  urgent care to get tested for COVID-19 after his girlfriend tested positive. Minute  Order dated January 9, 2023, p. 3, the last paragraph.    On January 9, 2023, the Court  granted the motion to set aside the dismissal. The Court set the non-jury trial  for March 1, 2023.    On March 1, 2023, the case was  called for trial. Plaintiff and Koutsoukos appeared at the trial. The Court  continued the trial to June 7, 2023, and ordered the parties to file a joint  witness and exhibit list. Subsequently, on its own motion, the Court continued  trial to August 22, 2023.    On August 22, 2023, the  parties appeared for trial, but the Court noted that the parties had failed to  comply with the requirement to file joint trial documents and prepare a joint  trial binder. Therefore, the Court continued the trial to December 5, 2023.    On December 5, 2023, the case  was again called for trial, but Plaintiff failed to appear. Therefore, the  Court dismissed the case without prejudice.    On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the instant motion to set aside the dismissal entered on December 5, 2023,  and to deem the 5-year statute of limitations of bringing the case to trial  tolled. The hearing was initially set for May 14, 2024.    On May 14, 2024, there were no  appearances by any party.  Therefore, the  Court continued the hearing to its current date on June 13, 2024, and ordered  Plaintiff to serve his moving papers on the defendants, file a supplemental  declaration attaching the missing exhibits, and give notice of that ruling at  least ten (10) court days before the next hearing.    That same day, on May 14,  2024, the court clerk filed a Certificate of Mailing of the Court’s order,  including to the address on Plaintiff’s motion: 6104 Sepulveda #1030, Van Nuys,  CA 91411 (the “Sepulveda Address”).    On May 28, 2024, the clerk  filed a Returned Mail notice showing that the mailing of the Court’s ruling on  May 14, 2024, was not delivered to one of Plaintiff’s addresses (not the  Sepulveda Address). Therefore, Plaintiff should have received at his Sepulveda  Address notice of the continued hearing.    As of June 12, 2024, Plaintiff  has still not filed proof of service of his moving papers on the defendants, filed  a supplemental declaration attaching the missing exhibits, or show proof that  he gave notice of the Court’s May 14, 2024 ruling as the Court had ordered.    MOVING PARTY’S  POSITION   The Court should  set aside the dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,  subdivision (b) (“Section 473(b)”), for the following reasons. Plaintiff was  ready for trial on December 5, 2023, but suffered a heart attack on December 4,  2023. Plaintiff was rushed to the hospital and underwent surgery. While he was  recovering from surgery, he developed an infection that caused complications. As  a result of that infection, he was hospitalized for four (4) months and  released recently on April 4, 2024. After being released from the hospital,  Plaintiff took things easy before looking into this case. Upon opening this  case’s file, he realized that the 5-year statute of limitations deadline for  bringing this case to trial (presumably on April 12, 2024, since Plaintiff had  filed this case on April 12, 2019) was quickly approaching. Therefore,  Plaintiff took time researching and writing this motion to salvage his case. If  the Court sets aside the dismissal, Koutsoukos will not suffer prejudice  because the preparations he made for trial should still be in his possession  and ready for submission on the next trial date.    Additionally, because Plaintiff’s  illness made it impracticable for him to attend the trial on December 5, 2023,  the Court should deem the 5-year statute of limitations for bringing this case  to trial tolled pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 583.340,  subdivision (c).   OPPOSITION               None.     REPLY               None.    ANALYSIS   I.          MOTION TO  SET ASIDE DISMISSAL  A.        Legal  Standard  1.       Relief Under  Section 473(b)   Pursuant to Section 473(b), a  court may “relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,  dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or  her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” However,  application for relief under the statute must be brought “within a reasonable  time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or  proceeding was taken.” Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).   2.       Tolling the 5-Year  Statute of Limitations    Code of  Civil Procedure section 583.310 (“Section 583.310”) states: “An action shall be  brought to trial within five years after the action is commenced against the  defendant.”    “In  computing the time within which an action must be brought to trial …, there  shall be excluded the time during which any of the following conditions  existed:   (a)       The jurisdiction of  the court to try the action was suspended. (b)       Prosecution or trial  of the action was stayed or enjoined. (c)       Bringing the action to  trial, for any other reason, was impossible, impracticable, or futile.”   Code Civ. Proc., § 583.340  (“Section 583.340”).   “Section  583.130 instructs that ‘the policy favoring trial or other disposition of an  action on the merits [is] generally to be preferred over the policy that  requires dismissal for failure to proceed with reasonable diligence in the  prosecution of an action in construing the provisions of this chapter.’” Seto  v. Szeto (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 76, 85 (“Seto”).   “‘Accordingly,  the tolling provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 583.340 must be  liberally construed consistent with the policy favoring trial on the merits.’  [Citation.]” Seto, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p. 85.   “When applying the tolling exceptions in section 583.340(c)  [i.e., impossibility, impracticability, or futility], a trial court ‘must  consider “‘all the circumstances in the individual case, including the acts and  conduct of the parties and the nature of the proceedings themselves. [Citations.]  The critical factor in applying these exceptions to a given factual situation  is whether the plaintiff exercised reasonable diligence in prosecuting his or  her case.’”’ [Citation.] ‘“The question of impossibility, impracticability, or  futility is best resolved by the trial court, which ‘is in the most  advantageous position to evaluate these diverse factual matters in the first  instance.’ [Citation.] The plaintiff bears the burden of proving that the  circumstances warrant application of the ... exception. [Citation.] ... The  trial court has discretion to determine whether that exception applies, and its  decision will be upheld unless the plaintiff has proved that the trial court  abused its discretion. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]”’” Seto, supra, 86  Cal.App.5th at p. 86.               In Tanguilig v. Neiman Marcus  Group, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 313, 324, the California Court of Appeal  held “that for the tolling provision in section 583.340(c) to prevent a case  from being dismissed, ‘a plaintiff must prove (1) a circumstance establishing  impossibility, impracticability, or futility, (2) a causal connection between  the circumstance and the failure to move the case to trial within the five-year  period, and (3) that she was reasonably diligent in prosecuting her case at all  stages in the proceedings.’” Seto, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p. 93.   However,  in Seto, the Court of Appeal clarified that “[t]he main authority for  the causation requirement is [Sierra Nevada Memorial-Miners Hospital, Inc.  v. Superior Court (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 464, 471-473 (“Sierra Nevada”)].”  Seto, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p. 94.    “Sierra Nevada  required a ‘causal connection’ between the circumstance alleged to justify  tolling and the impossibility or impracticability of bringing the action to  trial in order to distinguish between run-of-the-mill illnesses of counsel  during litigation, which do not cause it to be impossible, impracticable, or  futile to bring an action to trial, and extended illnesses or illnesses on the  eve of the expiration of the five-year period, which do.” Seto, supra,  86 Cal.App.5th at p. 94.   In sum, to obtain an order tolling the 5-year statute of  limitations pursuant to Section 583.340(c), a plaintiff must prove (1) that bringing  the action to trial within the statute of limitations period was impossible,  impracticable, or futile, and (2) a causal connection between the circumstance  alleged to justify tolling and the alleged impossibility, impracticability, or  futility.     B.        Discussion                Plaintiff  moves to set aside the dismissal entered on December 5, 2023.                However,  Plaintiff has not yet filed a  supplemental declaration attaching the missing exhibits. See Bennett Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6, and 7 (stating that Exhibit A contains his medical  records substantiating his period of infirmity, Exhibit B documents showing he  was prepared to go to trial, and Exhibit C email from Plaintiff to Koutsoukos  requesting that he stipulates to extending the 5-year statute of  limitations).                 Plaintiff has also not yet filed (1)  a proof of service of the moving papers on the defendants and (2) proof of  service of the notice of the Court’s ruling on May 14, 2024, continuing the  hearing to June 13, 2024.                This  Court warned Plaintiff that failure to comply with the Court’s order on May 14,  2024, would result in the motion being placed off calendar or denied.                Accordingly,  the Court hereby denies the motion.    II.        CONCLUSION                Plaintiff Scot L. Bennett’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal and to  Deem the 5 Year Dismissal Statute Tolled is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.      The Moving party is ordered to give  notice and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A”  to said notice, as the final order of the Court.  