  Case Number:  22SMCV01685    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01685




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff SM 10000 Property LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


none
  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment
Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Declaration
     of Nicole Browne
Declaration
     of Thomas F. Olsen

 
BACKGROUND
 
This breach of contract case arises from a dispute regarding the
amount of back rent Defendants allegedly owe Plaintiff in connection with a
residential property lease.
 
On September 26, 2022, Plaintiff SM 10000 Property LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brought suit against Defendants Nicolai Bergman (“Nicolai”), Amanda
McDermott-Bergmann (“Amanda”), and Nicolai Bergmann KK (“Nicolai KK”).  Amanda answered the complaint, but default
was entered against Nicolai and Nicolai KK on August 10, 2023.
 
Plaintiff now moves for summary judgment against all three defendants
on the single breach of contract cause of action.  Plaintiff’s motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The Court finds two procedural issues
with Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment.
 
            First, because default has been
entered against Defendants Nicolai and Nicolai KK, the proper procedural
vehicle to obtain a judgment against them is to request a default
judgment.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
585.)  Summary judgment is not a “default
judgment.”  (English v. IKON Business
Solutions, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 137-138.)  Importantly, Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b), which outlines the procedure for a party to request
relief from a default judgment, does not apply to summary judgments.  (Ibid.)  Thus, granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment as to Defendants Nicolai and Nicolai KK would deprive them of their
rights and remedies as defaulted defendants. 
 
 
            Second, the proof of service
indicates that Defendant Amanda, who is proceeding in pro per, was
served the motion only electronically.  California
Rules of Court, rule 2.251(b) provides:
 
(b) Electronic service by express consent
 
(1)  A
party or other person indicates that the party or other person agrees to accept
electronic service by:
 
(A) 
Serving a notice on all parties and other persons that the party or
other person accepts electronic service and filing the notice with the court.
The notice must include the electronic service address at which the party or
other person agrees to accept service; or
 
(B) 
Manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means with the court
or the court's electronic filing service provider, and concurrently providing
the party's electronic service address with that consent for the purpose of
receiving electronic service. A party or other person may manifest affirmative
consent by serving notice of consent to all parties and other persons and
either:
 
(i) 
Agreeing to the terms of service with an electronic filing service
provider, which clearly states that agreement constitutes consent to receive
electronic service; or
 
(ii) 
Filing Consent to Electronic Service and Notice of Electronic Service
Address (form EFS-005-CV).
 
(2)  A
party or other person that has consented to electronic service under (1) and
has used an electronic filing service provider to serve and file documents in a
case consents to service on that electronic filing service provider as the
designated agent for service for the party or other person in the case, until
such time as the party or other person designates a different agent for
service.
 
            Here,
the Court finds no consent to electronic service by Defendant Amanda on file.  Therefore, electronic service of the motion
on Amanda was not proper.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Because summary judgment is improper as to Defendants Nicolai and
Nicolai KK, and because the motion was not properly served on Defendant Amanda,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment without prejudice.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 16, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court