 Case Number:  23STCV00692    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV00692




MOTION


Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Beverly Hills Escrow




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Fred Behfarin



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute over the sale and ownership of real
property.  Plaintiff Fred Behfarin’s
(“Plaintiff”) Verified Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleges eight causes of
action for (1) specific performance; (2) breach of contract; (3) bad faith
waste; (4) fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (5) negligent
misrepresentation; (6) tortious interference with contract, prospective
business advantage; (7) breach of implied covenant of good faith & fair
dealing; and (8) declaratory relief against Defendants DH Distribution, Inc.
(“DH”); Sergey Menshikov (“Sergey”), Beverly Hills Escrow (“BHE”), Lucy
Menshikova (“Lucy”), and Larisa Menshikova (“Larisa”) (collectively,
“Defendants.”)  
 
As to Defendant BHE, Plaintiff only alleges the first and eighth
causes of action.
 
BHE now demurs to the first cause of action for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively;
and BHE demurs to the eighth cause of action for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to subdivision (e).  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and BHE replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although BHE argues that the first cause of action for specific
performance is uncertain because Plaintiff failed to allege or attach any
agreement to which BHE was a party, BHE does not demonstrate that any portions
of the TAC are so bad that BHE cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against it.  The Court thus declines to sustain BHE’s
demurrer to the first cause of action on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Specific Performance
 
BHE argues that Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for specific performance fails because (1) specific
performance is a remedy for a breach of contract, not an independent cause of
action; and (2) Plaintiff has failed to allege or attach a contract to which
BHE is a party.  
 
In support of BHE’s first
argument, BHE cites to Rogers v. Davis (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1218,
fn. 2, which explains that the plaintiff’s “two” causes of action for specific
performance, or in the alternative, damages, in connection with a real estate
transaction, are actually a single cause of action for breach of contract, with
two alternative remedies sought. 
However, Rogers did not sustain a demur to either cause of action
on this basis.
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s
second argument, although the Court agrees that the TAC is not a model of
clarity, it does allege facts indicating that BHE is the escrow provider for
the real estate transaction between Plaintiff on the one hand, and DH/Sergey on
the other hand.  
 
For example, the
purchase agreement between Plaintiff and DH/Sergey provides “1. An Escrow will
be opened no later than November 20, 2019 with Beverly Hills Escrow Company,
upon execution of the Agreement for the duration of performance.”  (TAC ¶ 13 and Ex. A.)
 
That was apparently done, because the TAC further alleges that the
parties went to BHE to sign documents (TAC ¶¶ 12-13) and that BHE has failed to
release the $540,926.37 funds deposited with it to Behfarin or to record the
grant deed the parties submitted to it (TAC ¶¶ 16-17, 19.)  
 
Moreover, in connection with BHE’s previous Motion to Discharge
Stakeholder, BHE admitted that it possesses the escrow funds and fully executed
but unrecorded grant deed in connection with the real estate transaction
between Plaintiff and DH/Sergey.  (See
October 11, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
As such, based on the allegations in the TAC and information in the
Court’s record, BHE agreed to act and did act as the escrow provider in
connection with the real estate transaction at issue.
 
Thus, the TAC adequately alleges facts indicating that the parties
agreed that BHE would act as the escrow provider for the real estate
transaction between Plaintiff and DH/Sergey, and that BHE failed to comply with
the escrow instructions by not releasing the funds and recording the grant
deed, for which Plaintiff now seeks specific performance compelling BHE to do
so.  
 
Accordingly, the Court finds for
pleading purposes Plaintiff has sufficiently stated a cause of action seeking
specific performance against BHE.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Eighth
Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
 
The Court previously sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to the declaratory relief cause of action alleged in
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint on the basis that declaratory relief is an
equitable remedy, not an independent cause of action (Faunce v. Cate (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 166, 173), but granted Plaintiff leave to plead declaratory
relief as a remedy.  (December 20, 2023
Minute Order.)
 
Moreover, here, the
declaratory relief sought is “a judicial declaration that BHE must record the
Grant Deed transferring the Subject Property to Plaintiff.”  (TAC at Prayer ¶ 8.)  Thus, as alleged, the declaratory relief
sought is duplicative of the specific performance sought against BHE.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
BHE’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v. Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, there are no facts Plaintiff could allege to state a cause
of action for “declaratory relief.”  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules BHE’s Demurrer to the
First Cause of Action, and sustains without leave to amend BHE’s Demurrer to
the Eighth Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court orders BHE to file an Answer to the Third Amended
Complaint on or before May 7, 2024.  
 
BHE shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 16, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court