  Case Number:  23STCV27311    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING 


DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV27311




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Further Responses 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Teresita Mahayag Teichmann 




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Mag Estate Property, LLC


  Plaintiff Teresita
Mahayag Teichmann (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Mag Estate Property,
LLC (“Defendant”) to further respond to her Requests for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”).  In its September 16, 2024 order, the Court
ordered the parties to file a joint statement concerning which responses to the
RPD remain at issue. BACKGROUND On October 14, 2024, the parties filed a stipulation
to that effect and indicated they had resolved RPD No. 23.  Those RPD remaining in dispute were
identified as relating to rent ledgers for units in the apartment complex (No. 3),
rental listings (No. 4), lease agreements (No. 5), “cash for keys” offers Defendant
made to tenants (No. 7), eviction notices to tenants (No. 8), Defendant’s demands
for reimbursement from tenants for repair costs (No. 11), complaints made by
tenants against Defendant concerning rental property it owns to the L.A.
Housing Department and made to Defendant by tenants of rental property
Defendant owns (Nos. 17 and 18), phone
statements reflecting incoming and outgoing calls and text messages from
Gouhari’s office phone number (No. 20), text and email communications between
co-defendants Gouhari and Beck relating to the property (Nos. 21 and 27), notes
and calendar entries maintained by Defendant concerning the apartment complex (No.
26), and inspections conducted during due diligence concerning the apartment
complex (No. 28).ANALYSISWhen a party is
seeking to compel further responses to requests for document production, the
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Code of Civ. Proc., §2031.310(b)(1.)[1]  Once good cause is established by the moving
party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure. With respect to RPD Nos. 4 and 28, Defendant provided
verified responses it had produced all responsive documents after making a
reasonable inquiry and conducting a diligent search.  Defendant’s response substantially complies
with section 2031.230:  “A representation
of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party.” 
(§2031.230.)  Defendant’s
statement the documents either never existed “or” are no longer in its
possession or custody does not violate section 2031.230.  Plaintiff fails to cite any authority
requiring Defendant to only select one of the options for being unable to
comply, nor would such a requirement make sense.  The unavailability of specific responsive
documents may vary depending on the document. 
The fact Plaintiff does
not necessarily believe the responses are accurate is not a valid basis to compel
any further response.   As for the remaining RPD, Plaintiff have
sought documents relating to every tenant who has resided in the relatively
small 13-unit apartment complex for the three-year period Defendant has owned
the property and complaints concerning all properties Defendant owns (Nos. 17
and 18), not just the apartment complex in which Plaintiff resides.  In this regard, some aspects of the RPD are too
broad, and Plaintiff has not offered any solid explanation why such expansive
discovery is warranted in this case.  Defendant proclaims it has provided responses
limited to Plaintiff and her apartment.  As
such, Defendant’s limitation is too narrow. 
As noted above, the apartment complex at issue is not large and the
relevant period for the production is the three-year time frame in which
Defendant has owned the property.  Also,
despite the overbreadth of Plaintiff’s RPD in a few instances, Plaintiff is
entitled to discovery that may lead to admissible evidence.  (See § 2017.010 [“any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action  .
. . if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence”].)  Therefore, some evidence of Defendant’s
treatment of other tenants in the 12 other units in the apartment complex may
be relevant to Defendant’s treatment of Plaintiff with respect to her claims of
retaliation and harassment.  Such discovery
does not necessarily have to impact the other tenants’ privacy interests, as
Defendant alleges.  “In Hill,
we established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.  The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations.”  (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (citing Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35 (Hill).)            “Whether
a legally recognized privacy interest is present in a given case is a question
of law to be decided by the court. 
Whether plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances and whether defendant's conduct constitutes a serious invasion of
privacy are mixed questions of law and fact. If the undisputed material facts
show no reasonable expectation of privacy or an insubstantial impact on privacy
interests, the question of invasion may be adjudicated as a matter of
law.”  (Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p.
40.)            “In
general, the court should not proceed to balancing unless a satisfactory
threshold showing is made. A defendant is entitled to prevail if it negates any
of the three required elements. A defendant can also prevail at the balancing
stage. An otherwise actionable invasion of privacy may be legally justified if
it substantively furthers one or more legitimate competing interests. (Hill,
supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 40.) 
Conversely, the invasion may be unjustified if the claimant can point to
“feasible and effective alternatives” with “a lesser impact on privacy
interests.”  (County of Los Angeles v.
Los Angeles County Employee Relations Com. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 905, 926.)            There
is clearly a legally protected interest at stake in instances in which financial
information is the subject of the requests. 
Defendant does address whether (1) there is a reasonable expectation of
privacy under the circumstances of this case; and (2) whether the threatened
intrusion is serious.  Regarding the
seriousness of the invasion, there is an existing protective order in this case
that would adequately protect the privacy interests of third parties with a
designation of “Attorney’s Eyes Only” and/or by omitting the names or personal
information from the document production. 
With respect to the discovery
of “cash for keys” information, for example, such documentation can be produced
with tenants’ names and their apartment numbers redacted; thus, not implicating
other tenant’s privacy interests.  In any
event, if Defendant truly believes this information is protectible because, in
every instance, they represent pre-litigation offers to compromise, Defendant’s
remedy is to move for a protective order or, as Defendant, argues, to move to
exclude the evidence at trial on that basis.  
 CONCLUSION AND ORDERTherefore, the motion is denied as to RFP
Nos. 4 and 28; granted, in part, as to Nos. 17 and 18 limited to information concerning
the apartment complex in which Plaintiff resides, and granted as to Nos. 3, 5,
7. 8. 11, 20, 21, 26, and 27 (where appropriate, limited to the apartment
complex).  Defendant is to provide a
further response in keeping with this Court’s order within 20 days of its
issuance.  Under the circumstances of this matter, pursuant
to section 2031.320, subdivision (b), Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
denied because such an award would be unjust. 
Plaintiff is to give notice of this order and
to file proof of service of same.


