 Case Number:  24STCV04359    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV04359




MOTION:  


Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant National Community Renaissance of California




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Delmy Yadira Vargas Hernandez, Sebastian
  Gonzalez, Delmy S. Gonzalez, Babie J. Gonzalez



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Delmy Yadira Vargas Hernandez, Sebastian Gonzalez, Delmy S. Gonzalez, and Babie
J. Gonzalez (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendant National Community Renaissance of
California (“Defendant”) for habitability violations.  Defendant moves to strike portions of Plaintiffs’
first amended complaint.  Plaintiffs
oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Defendant moves to
strike the prayer for punitive damages. 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College
Hospital).)  Pursuant to Civil Code
section 3294, a plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College  Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at
p. 725.)  “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (Grieves), internal
citations and footnotes omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendant
failed to maintain the apartment Plaintiffs leased from Defendant in a
habitable condition, and Defendant failed to remedy issues with the apartment
even though Plaintiffs informed Defendant of those issues.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 27-28.)  However, Plaintiffs do not allege any specific
facts to show Defendant acted with malice, rather than negligently.  As such, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged
a claim for punitive damages against Defendant. 

Further, Defendant is an entity.  “[T]he imposition of punitive damages
upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. 
It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.”  (City
Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal. App. 3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do not
have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages
against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s
employees.  But the law does not impute
every employee’s malice to the corporation. 
Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among
corporate leaders:  the officers, directors,
or managing agents.”  (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal. App.
4th 160, 167, internal quotations and citation omitted.)  Plaintiffs fail to allege Defendant’s
officers, directors, or managing agents acted with malice such that Plaintiffs
may recover punitive damages from Defendant.
The Court has already provided Plaintiffs
with an opportunity to state a claim for punitive damages against Defendant,
and Plaintiffs failed to do so.  As such,
leave to amend is likely futile.  (Grieves,
supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 168.) 
However, in an abundance of caution, the Court will provide Plaintiffs
with one more opportunity to amend to state a claim for punitive damages
against Defendant.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to strike the punitive
damages allegations is granted with leave to amend.  Plaintiffs are to file an amended complaint within
10 days. 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 