 Case Number:  23STCV11867    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  73 04/30/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
JOSE MEJIA, et al. v. VLADIMIR
ROZUMNY (23STCV11867)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party: Sabrina Venskus (Venskus & Associates, APC)
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Michael D’Andrea
(Bremer, Whyte Brown & O’Meara LLP)
 
MOTION TO
CONSOLIDATE (filed 4/03/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Consolidate is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 24,
2023, Plaintiffs Jose Humberto Mejia and Valerie Mejia (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendant Vladimir Rozumny. Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint on October 13, 2023 and asserted the following causes of
action:  
 
1.     Tenant
Harassment in Violation of Los Angeles Code §§ 45.33, 45.35 
2.    
Violation of
the Tenant Buyout Notification Program (Los Angeles Municipal    
       Code § 151.31)
3.    
Breach of
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
4.     Nuisance
5.     Unfair
Competition under Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq. 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. Plaintiffs are tenants of the residential apartment
complex located at 1185 N. Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90029 (the
“Property”). (FAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs moved onto the Property in 2009 under an oral lease
agreement with then-owner Rudy Pichardo. (FAC, ¶ 16.) In approximately December 2021, the
Property was purchased by Defendant Vladimir Rozumny. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Starting
in July 2022, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant began harassing them in an
attempt to unlawfully evict Plaintiffs, including by removing amenities from
Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶¶ 20-32.)  
 
On
April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion to consolidate this case with its related cases Batz,
et al. v. Rozumny (Case No. 23STCV21391) (“Batz”). On April 23, 2024,
Defendant filed an opposition to the motion. Plaintiffs have not filed a reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard 
 
“When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,¿subd. (a).)  
 
The purpose
of consolidation is to enhance trial court efficiency by avoiding unnecessary
duplication of evidence and the danger of inconsistent adjudications. (See
Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon¿Shield Claimants Trust¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976,
978-979.)¿ 
 
“Cases may
not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”¿(Super.
Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule¿3.3(g)(1).)¿ 
 
“There are
two types of consolidation: a complete consolidation resulting in a single
action, and a consolidation of separate actions for trial. Under the former
procedure, which may be utilized where the parties are identical and the causes
could have been joined, the pleadings are regarded as merged, one set of
findings is made, and one judgment is rendered. In a consolidation for trial,
the pleadings, verdicts, findings and judgments are kept separate; the actions
are simply tried together for the sake of convenience and judicial economy.” (Sanchez
v. Superior Court (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1391, 1396.) 
“Consolidation under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 is
permissive, and it is for the trial court to determine whether the
consolidation is for all purposes or for trial only.” (Hamilton v. Asbestos
Corp., Ltd. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1149.)  
“An order
granting or denying all or part of a motion to consolidate must be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated. If the motion is granted for all purposes
including trial, any subsequent document must be filed only in the lead case.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350(c).) “Unless otherwise provided in the order
granting the motion to consolidate, the lowest numbered case in the
consolidated case is the lead case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350(b).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a) states: 
 
(1) A notice
of motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named parties in each case, the
names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated,
with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated. (2) The motion to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single
motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C)
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.350(a).)     
 
B.     Procedural
Requirements for Motion to Consolidate
 
“Cases may
not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.” (Super.
Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule¿3.3(g)(1).)¿ 
 
Here, the
above requirement is satisfied. According to the Minute Order dated February 5,
2024, the Court found both cases related within the meaning of California Rules
of Court, designated this case as the lead case, and assigned all related cases
to this Court (Department 73).   
 
Plaintiffs have
also satisfied the notice of motion requirements, including filing the notice
of motion in each related case. (Cal. Rules of¿Court, rule 3.350(a)(1)
[requiring that notice of motion to consolidate cases must¿(1) include a list
of all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and
the names of their respective attorneys of record; (2) include the captions of
all the cases sought to be consolidated; and (3) be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated].)
 
C.     Discussion
 
Plaintiffs argue that the two cases should
be consolidated because they involve common questions of law and fact, thus, consolidation
would promote judicial efficiency. Plaintiffs assert that both suits allege
similar factual allegations and causes of action. Both lawsuits allege causes
of action for: Tenant
Harassment in Violation of Los Angeles Code §§ 45.33, 45.35; Violation of
the Tenant Buyout Notification Program (Los Angeles Municipal Code § 151.31); Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; and Unfair Competition under
Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq. The plaintiffs in both cases are
tenants of the Property and allege that shortly after Defendant purchased the
Property, “they suffered harm by the defendant’s actions in June 2022,
July 2022, and on specific dates in early 2023.” (Motion, p. 5.) In addition, both the Mejia and Batz
lawsuits have the same named Defendant and attorneys for all parties are the
same.
 
However, the Court
finds it proper to deny the motion to consolidate. It is not evident that
consolidation would be appropriate here where the only thing tying the cases
together is that the Defendant is the same and the plaintiffs assert, more or
less, the same legal claims against him. While the theories of liability in
terms of what causes of action are being asserted are more or less the same, the
plaintiffs (i.e., the tenants) asserting such claims are different. The
Mejia Plaintiffs and the Batz Plaintiffs reside in different rental units and have
separate landlord tenant relationships with Defendant. Although the plaintiffs
assert similar causes of action, they are based on different sets of facts and
events. For example, unlike the Mejia complaint, the complaint in the Batz suit
alleges that Defendant unreasonably delayed in remedying a gas leak in their
unit and the Batz plaintiffs were left without gas for a significant period of
time. (Batz Compl., ¶ 25.) Also, unlike the Mejia suit, the Batz complaint
alleges that a few months after their unit was broken into, Defendant required
the Batz plaintiffs to remove their locks causing them to fear for their
safety. (Batz Compl., ¶ 33.) Given that it does not
appear that both cases arise from the same operative facts, the Court does
not find that it would be any more efficient to consolidate both cases than to
have them tried separately. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion to Consolidate Cases is DENIED.  
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Consolidate Cases.. 