  Case Number:  22STCV29381    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  73 4/30/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
JUNG PARK, et al. v. SOFIA SWEETHEART LLC, et al.
(22STCV29381) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Kevin Leichter (The Leichter Firm, APC)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Dalen Saludes (Demler, Armstrong & Rowland,
LLP) 
 
MOTION TO STAY CIVIL PROCEEDING, OR ALTERNATIVELY,
STAY ALL PROCEEDINGS CONCERNING DEFENDANT LIDA BEHNAM UNTIL THE CONCLUSION OF
HER CRIMINAL TRIAL (filed 3/15/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Defendants’ Motion to Stay the Civil
Proceeding is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 9,
2022, Plaintiffs Jung Park (“Jung”) and Young Park filed the instant action
against Defendants Sofia Sweetheart LLC, Lida Behnam (“Lida”), and Sofia
Benham. On December
4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint alleging the following
causes of action:
C/A 1: Prescriptive Easement 
C/A 2: Implied Easement by Necessity
C/A 3: Equitable Easement
C/A 4: Trespass
C/A 5: Interference with Quiet Enjoyment
C/A 6: Private Nuisance
C/A 7: Negligence
C/A 8: Permanent Injunction
C/A 9: Declaratory Relief
C/A 10: Invasion of Privacy, Intrusion into Private Matters
C/A 11: Invasion of the California Constitutional Right of Privacy
C/A 12: Civil Assault
C/A 13: Civil Battery
C/A 14: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
C/A 15: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
C/A 16: Defamation – By Libel 
 
This action
arises from a dispute over the scope and use of a reciprocal driveway easement between
the properties of both parties. Plaintiffs are owners of a home at 5318 West
119th Place, Inglewood, California 90304 (“Park Property”). Defendants own the property adjacent to the Park Property
located at 5322 West 119th Place, Inglewood, California 90304
(“Sweetheart Property”).
 
Plaintiffs
allege
that since 2020, Defendants became increasingly hostile and aggressive towards
Plaintiffs and their family when Plaintiffs raised complaints concerning
Defendants’ and their third-party guests’ obstruction of Plaintiffs’ access to
Plaintiffs’ parking garage when Defendants and their guests parked their
vehicles directly in front of the driveway or directly on the reciprocal
driveway easement. (SAC, ¶ 36.)
 
The parties
continued to have disputes over the easement and in May 2022, Jung was taking
measurements with a retractable tape measure in an effort to verify whether
Defendants were encroaching on the easement. (SAC, ¶ 46.) Lida
came out of her home and kicked the tape measure while it was still in Jung’s hand,
causing the tape measure to wildly retract with its sharp metal edge lacerating
Jung’s hand. (Ibid.) As a result of this incident, Jung filed a police
report which ultimately caused Lida to be charged with 2 counts of alleged
violation of Plaintiffs’ civil rights. (Motion, p. 3.)
 
On March 15,
2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to stay the proceedings or,
alternatively, to stay all proceedings concerning Defendant Lida Behnam until
the conclusion of the criminal proceedings against Lida Behnam, arguing:
·      
Good cause exists to stay this action because Defendant Lida
Behnam’s Fifth Amendment rights are implicated in this case
·      
The five Avant! factors favor granting Defendant Benham’s
motion to stay
o   Plaintiffs
will not be prejudiced by the stay
o   Defendant
Benham will be substantially prejudiced without a stay
o   A stay would
convenience the Court and promote judicial economy
o   The interests
of non-parties will not be affected
o   The public’s
interest is advanced by a stay
·      
In the alternative, ample grounds exist for a stay of discovery as
to Defendant Benham
 
Plaintiffs
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendants
waived their Fifth Amendment Rights by failing to timely assert a Fifth
Amendment objection. 
o   The criminal
case was pending when this case was filed. Between June 20, 2023 and March 11,
2024, Defendants responded to Plaintiffs’ propounded written discovery without
asserting any objection based on the Fifth Amendment. (Hewitt Decl., ¶¶ 3-7).
It was not until March 11, 2024 – then a mere forty days from trial – that
Defendants first asserted the Fifth Amendment privilege based on charges that
were pending when this case was filed. (Hewitt Decl., ¶12).
·      
Defendants’ assertion of the Fifth Amendment is improper.
Defendants have not specified the scope that they are invoking
self-incrimination. 
·      
Good cause does not exist to stay this action.
·      
Good cause does not exist to stay discovery as to Defendant Lida
Behnam.
 
Defendants
filed a reply maintaining that good cause exists to stay this action.
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
“Trial courts
generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of
justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of
Mission Viejo¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  “[T]he question of
whether a civil proceeding should be stayed pending the outcome of a parallel
criminal proceeding often rests not on the constitutional issue of
self-incrimination, but on the issue of abuse of discretion.”  (Avant!
Corp. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885.) 
 
Accordingly,
“‘The decision whether to stay civil proceedings in the face of a parallel
criminal proceeding should be made “in light of the particular circumstances
and competing interests involved in the case.” [Citation.] This means the
decisionmaker should consider ‘the extent to which the defendant’s fifth
amendment rights are implicated.’ [Citation.] In addition, the decisionmaker
should generally consider the following factors: (1) the interest of the
plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular
aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the
burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants;
(3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the
efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties
to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending
civil and criminal litigation.’ [Citations.]”  (Ibid.) 
 
B.    
 Motion to
Stay
 
Defendants seek a stay of proceedings pending
resolution of the criminal action pending against Defendant Lida (the “Criminal
Action”).
 
Defendants
argue that Defendant Lida invoked her Fifth Amendment privilege against
self-incrimination in response to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests in this
action, and thus cannot provide substantive answers to most of Plaintiffs’
discovery requests or meaningfully participate in a deposition until the
criminal case is resolved. 
 
Persons
have a privilege against compelled self-incrimination under the U.S.
Constitution, Fifth Amendment; and California Constitution, article I, section
15, clause 6. California Evidence Code, section 940 provides a specific
privilege to refuse to disclose any matter that tends to incriminate that
person, to the extent the privilege exists under the Constitution of the United
States or the State of California. (Evid. Code, §¿940.)  
 
Under
Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court, and cited in Avant! Corp. v. Superior
Court: 
 
Where
. . . a defendant's silence is constitutionally guaranteed, the court should
weigh the parties' competing interests with a view toward accommodating the
interests of both parties, if possible. An order staying discovery until
expiration of the¿criminal statute of limitations would allow real parties to
prepare their lawsuit while alleviating petitioners' difficult choice¿between
defending either the civil or criminal case. 
 
This
remedy is in accord with federal practice where it has been consistently held
that when both civil and criminal proceedings arise out of the same or related
transactions, an objecting party is generally entitled¿to a stay of discovery
in the civil action until disposition of the criminal matter. [Citations.] The
rationale of the federal cases is based on Fifth Amendment principles as well
as the inherent unfairness of compelling disclosure of a criminal defendant's
evidence and defenses before trial. Under these circumstances, the prosecution
should not be able to obtain, through the medium of the civil proceedings,
information to which it was not entitled under the criminal discovery rules.
[Citation.]  
 
((2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 876, 882 (cited in Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court, 162
Cal.App.3d 686, 690).) 
 
Here,
the parties do not dispute that the allegations in Plaintiffs’ current action (allegations of
civil assault, battery, and hate speech directed at Plaintiffs who are Korean)
also form the basis for the allegations in the Criminal Action against
Defendant Lida. The Criminal Action arose out of the alleged laceration by a
tape measure that Plaintiffs contend occurred when Lida kicked the tape measure
that was extended on the ground by Jung. Defendants assert the criminal case was set to be dismissed on or about
February 29, 2024 after Lida paid the medical bill for the treatment of Jung’s alleged
laceration. However, Defendants assert that after the $187.00 medical bill was
paid, Plaintiffs represented that additional restitution should be paid and
asked for more time to compile the backup. A further Pre-Trial hearing was set
for April 5, 2024 to address the amount of any additional restitution owed.
There will also be another hearing before the criminal case is dismissed since
the Plaintiffs have requested to speak to the Judge and Lida under the
California Constitution, Article I, Section 28(b) (commonly referred to as
“Marsy’s Law” or victim’s rights). As such, the criminal case for which was
expected to be dismissed on or about February 29, 2024 will remain active
likely into May 2024. (Davis Decl., ¶ 4.) This civil
action has already been filed and there is not a concern on expiration of a
statute of limitations in this action.  
 
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants’ failure to timely assert an objection founded upon the
Fifth Amendment constitutes a waiver. (Brown v. Superior Court (1986)
180 Cal. App. 3d 701, 712.) Plaintiffs assert that Defendants responded to
written discovery, and it was not until they had completed taking Plaintiffs’
depositions that they first objected to any discovery on the basis of the Fifth
Amendment. (Hewitt Decl., ¶¶ 11-14). Thus, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
should have raise this objection earlier in the case.
 
However,
Defendants argue they did not assert their Fifth Amendment objection earlier
because the criminal case was set to be dismissed on or about February 29, 2024, before the
deposition of Jung that was taken on March 5, 2024. However, the criminal case
was not dismissed, and Plaintiffs represented that additional restitution
should be paid and asked for more time to compile the backup. Therefore, the
Court finds it sufficient that in light of the Criminal Action continuing, Lida
now asserts her Fifth Amendment objection. 
 
When
considering whether to stay civil proceedings in the face of parallel criminal
proceedings, the Court considers the extent to which the defendant’s fifth
amendment rights are implicated, as well as the factors: “(1) the interest of
the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any
particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay;
(2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on
defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases,
and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not
parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public¿in the
pending civil and criminal litigation.” (Avant! Corp., 79 Cal.App.4th at
885 (quoting Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision¿(9th Cir. 1995) 45
F.3d 322, 325).)  
 
Here,
the parties do not dispute that Defendant Lida as an individual defendant in
this action is entitled to protection under the Fifth Amendment, as she is a
named defendant in the Criminal Action. Regarding whether the entire action
should be stayed, it seems proceeding against one defendant and not the others
in this action would cause an inefficient use of judicial resources and
increased burdens on the parties to need to proceed separately against the other
defendants. Plaintiffs have an interest in proceeding expeditiously with the
litigation, in light of their claims that Defendants are impacting the use of
the subject property. However, as Defendants assert, the case is only 18 months
old and it does not appear it would not be unduly prejudicial to stay the case
pending completion of the criminal case set for pre-trial hearing on May 15,
2024. Third, there is a high burden on Defendant Lida if the court does not
permit a stay, as affecting Defendant’s ability to fully defend herself,
causing her not to be able to provide substantive answers or meaningfully
participate in deposition, pending resolution of the criminal proceedings. (Saludes
Decl. ¶¿11.) Fourth, court efficiency and case management weighs in favor of a
stay, as a temporary stay of proceedings will moot discovery disputes over
similar issues, and production of discovery as well as adjudication of
discovery disputes would be closely related to the specific claims and evidence
in support in the Criminal Action. Fifth, the interests on nonparties to the
civil litigation leans against a stay, for resolution of the matters alleged in
this action. Sixth, the interests of the public for swift resolution of cases
weigh against a stay. Considering and balancing each of the foregoing factors,
the circumstances warrant a stay of the instant civil proceedings.  
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Defendants’ motion to stay the case is
GRANTED. Proceedings in this action are ordered stayed pending resolution of
the proceedings in the criminal action against Defendant Lida. 