 Case Number:  24STCV06713    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  73 04/30/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
ALADDIN DINAALI v. BRIDGE PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, LC, et al. (24STCV01673)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Aladdin Dinaali (Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  David Samani (Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP)
 
demurrer to complaint (filed on 3/25/24 by Defendants Bridge
Property Management, LC, James E. Murphy, and Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard &
Smith LLP)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer as to each of the Complaint’s
causes of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff Aladdin Dinaali (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Bridge Property Management, LC (“Bridge”); Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard
& Smith LLP (“LBBS”); James E. Murphy (“Murphy”); American Legal
Investigation Services Nevada, Inc.; Gabriela Melendez; and Deyber Jimenez. 
 
The basis of this lawsuit is that in April 2022, Bridge, through
its counsel, Murphy, sued Plaintiff in Nevada (the “Nevada action”) for
defamation and business disparagement. In the Nevada action, Bridge alleged
that Plaintiff damaged its reputation by creating two websites that falsely
stated that criminals resided in Bridge’s property and that the company is
racist. Plaintiff allegedly sent e-mails to Bridge’s employees directing them
to visit the websites. Bridge dismissed the case in May 2023. 
 
In October 2022, Plaintiff sued Bridge and Murphy in Los Angeles
Superior Court, case number 22STCV32840 (“First California Action”). Plaintiff alleged
that he was wrongfully sued in Nevada, Bridge allegedly filed a false police
report against him for criminal prosecution, Bridge conspired with its attorney
and employees to falsely accuse him of violating various statutes, and that his
website constitutes protected activities. In January 2023, the court dismissed
the case. 
 
In January 2024, Plaintiff brought this current lawsuit alleging
that the Nevada action was filed by Defendants frivolously and unlawfully. The Complaint alleges the
following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Conspiracy 
C/A
2: Malicious Prosecution
C/A
3: Abuse of Process
C/A
4: Unfair Business Practices (Civ § 1770)
C/A
5: Unfair Business Practices (BPC § 17200)
C/A
6: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
C/A
7: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
On November 20, 2023, Defendants Bridge, LBBS and Murphy
(collectively “Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer arguing each of the
Complaint’s causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
·       Plaintiff’s second cause of action for malicious prosecution
fails to state a cause of action.
·       Plaintiff’s remaining causes of action are barred by the
litigation privilege.
·       Plaintiff’s remaining causes of action are also barred by res
judicata/collateral estoppel.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing: 
·      
Defendants failed to meet and confer.
·      
Nevada law does not apply. Plaintiff was never a resident of
Nevada and the underlying action should never have been brought in Nevada. Plaintiff
is a resident of California law and California law should apply. 
·      
Malicious prosecution is actionable in the present case. Under
California law, malicious prosecution applies to civil cases. 
·      
Plaintiff’s Complaint is not barred by res
judicata/collateral estoppel. The Complaint in the current action alleges new
issues which have arisen since the prior action. 
·      
Plaintiff has stated fact sufficient to establish all causes
of action
 
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Nevada law applies because the governing law is of the state
where the proceeding complained of occurred. Here, the underlying action was
litigated in Nevada. Thus, under Nevada law, Plaintiff’s malicious prosecution
claim fails.
·      
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address Defendants’ argument
that the remaining claims are barred by the litigation privilege.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants did not submit a declaration
stating he met and conferred with Plaintiff. While the
court does not find the moving party satisfied its obligations to meet and
confer in person or by telephone, the failure to meet and confer is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4);
435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the court proceeds on the merits.
 
C.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request
that the Court take judicial notice of the following documents in support of
their Demurrer to the Complaint:
1.     Complaint
against Plaintiff in Clark County Nevada styled as Bridge Property Management,
LC v. Aladdin Dinaali, case number A-22-851672-C (the “Nevada Action”). 
2.     Motion to
Dismiss in the Nevada Action. 
3.     Motion for
Sanction in Nevada Action. 
4.     Motion to
Strike in Nevada Action. 
5.     Motion to
Reconsider in Nevada Action. 
6.     Complaint
against Bridge and Mr. Murphy in Los Angeles Superior Court, case number
22STCV32840 (“First California Action”). 
7.     Demurrer in
the First California Action. 
8.     Anti-SLAPP
Motion in First California Action.
9.     Order of
Dismissal in First California Action. 
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants judicial notice of the requested documents. The Court
notes that although it may take judicial notice of the documents, the documents
are only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were
made. The truth of its contents, facts and findings within the documents are
not judicially noticeable. (See Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 885; Herrera v. Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
D.     Second Cause
of Action: Malicious Prosecution
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for malicious prosecution fails
because it does not state a cause of action.
 
In a
malicious prosecution or abuse of process action, “[t]he governing law is that
of the state where the proceeding complained of occurred, with the usual
qualification for a state of more significant relationship (which is rare).” (5
Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005) Torts, § 197, p. 335 (emphasis in
original); see Rest.2d Conf. of Laws, § 155, com. b, p. 475-476 [“The rights
and liabilities of the parties for malicious prosecution or abuse of process
are determined by the local law of the state where the proceeding complained of
occurred, unless, with respect to the particular issue, some other state has a
more significant relationship”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
malicious prosecution cause of action arises from the Nevada Action. The
Complaint alleges that “Defendants Bridge, LBBS and Murphy, engaged in fabricating,
initiating and maintaining a malicious SLAPP suit against Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶
96.) Since the underlying action occurred in Nevada, Defendants assert that Nevada
law applies. Plaintiff argues that Nevada law should not apply because Plaintiff
is not a resident of Nevada and the underlying action should have never been
filed in Nevada. While Plaintiff asserts the underlying action should have been
filed in California, and thus, California law applies, Plaintiff does not
provide any support for his contentions. It is undisputed that the underlying
action was filed in Nevada. Thus, the Court finds Nevada law applies here. 
 
Under Nevada law, a “malicious prosecution claim requires that the
defendant initiated, procured the institution of, or actively participated in
the continuation of a criminal proceeding against the plaintiff (LaMantia v.
Redisi (2002) 118 Nev. 27, 30 [38 P.3d 877, 879-880].) 
 
In the underlying Nevada action, Defendants had initiated a civil
proceeding against Plaintiff, not a criminal proceeding. Since Nevada law only
allows malicious prosecution claims if the defendant initiated a criminal
proceeding against the plaintiff, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claim for
malicious prosecution fails.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer as to the second cause of action for malicious prosecution is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
 
E.     Litigation
Privilege
 
Defendants next argue that Plaintiff’s first,
third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action are barred by
the litigation privilege
 
Civil Code section 47(b) provides an absolute privilege for
communications made in any legislative proceeding, in any judicial proceeding,
in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or in the initiation or
course of any other proceeding authorized by law. (See Civ. Code, § 47(b); Hagberg
v. California Federal Bank FSB (2004) 32 Cal.4th 350, 360.) “‘The usual
formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants
authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that
[has] some connection or logical relation to the action.’” (Kenne v. Stennis
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 953, 964 (quoting Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50
Cal.3d 205, 212).) The privilege “protects any statements or writings that have
‘some relation’ to a lawsuit,” meaning that “communications made both during
and in anticipation of litigation are covered by the statute.” (Id. at
965 (quoting Rubin v. Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1193-94).) “‘The
privilege is broadly applied to protect most publications within lawsuits
provided there is some connection between the lawsuit and the publication.’” (Obos
v. Scripps Psychological Associates, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 103, 108
(quoting Adams v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 521, 529).) “‘Any
doubt as to whether the privilege applies is resolved in favor of applying it.’”
(Id. (emphasis in original).) Section 47(b) bars all tort causes of
action except malicious prosecution. (See Hagberg, supra, 32 Cal.4th at
360.)
 
The Complaint’s first, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action are all based on Defendants’
filing of the underlying Nevada action. For example, Plaintiff alleges for the
first cause of action for conspiracy that when Defendants filed the Nevada
action, Defendants entered into a conspiracy “to retaliate against, harass,
intimidate and injure mind and body and finances of Plaintiff by way of a
fabricated libel suit filed without an iota of any evidence, an action which
could result in incarceration of Plaintiff in Nevada.” (Compl., ¶ 57.) The
third cause of action for abuse of process alleges Defendants filed the Nevada
action “to (1) retaliate against Plaintiff for reporting Bridge’s safety
violations to Nevada building and safety and fire officials, and (2) to force
through Plaintiff, removal from the internet of two legitimate websites posted
by a third party documenting Bridge’s illegal acts utilizing publisher’s First
Amendment rights to free speech.” (Compl., ¶ 121.) The fourth cause of action
for unfair business practices in violation of California Civil Code § 1770(3), alleges
that Defendants Murphy, Melendez and Jimenez, falsely certified several
perjured declarations in support of the Nevada action. (Compl., ¶ 130.) While
Plaintiff does not specify the basis of his fifth cause of action for unfair
business practices in violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200, he
appears to allege that it is based on Defendants’ illegal acts including the filing
of the Nevada action. (Compl., ¶ 138.) The sixth and seventh causes of actions
allege that Defendants’ meritless Nevada action caused Plaintiff to suffer
emotional distress. (Compl., ¶¶ 142-143, 153.)
 
Here, all claims are premised on communicative conduct either in,
directly related to, or in anticipation of the Nevada action. Since this
communicative conduct is related to a judicial proceeding, it is therefore
absolutely privileged under the litigation privilege. Therefore, all of
Plaintiff’s claims, except the malicious prosecution cause of action, are
barred by the litigation privilege. Plaintiff does not address this argument in
his opposition.
 
Since the Court sustains the demurrer as to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh
causes of action on this basis, the Court does not address Defendants argument
that these causes of action are also barred by res judicata/collateral
estoppel. 
 
Accordingly,
based on the litigation privilege, the demurrer as to the first, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

The Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s entire Complaint with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
 