 Case Number:  23STCV02687    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JENNA NOBLE, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
DORCY, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV02687
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 16, 2024



 
Defendants Dorcy, Inc. dba Conscious
Co-Parenting Institute’s and Dorcy Pruter’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Jenna
Noble’s and Michael Eisenberg dba and Eisenberg & Associates’ second
amended complaint is sustained without leave to amend as to the 1st
cause of action.
 
Defendants Dorcy, Inc. dba Conscious Co-Parenting Institute
(“Conscious Co-Parenting”) and Dorcy Pruter (“Pruter”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
demur to the 1st cause of action in Plaintiffs Jenna Noble’s (“Noble”) and Michael Eisenberg dba Eisenberg
& Associates’ (“Eisenberg”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) second amended complaint
(“SAC”).[1]  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants’ 5/23/24 request for judicial notice of (1) Joint
Stipulation Re: Continuing Dates in Scheduling Order to Facilitate Global
Resolution of the Case, filed August 13, 2021, in United States District Court –
C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:19-cv-8646 ODW (JPRx) (Document No. 189) (D-RJN, Exh. 1);
(2) Civil Minutes – General, minute order dated August 13, 2021, in United
States District Court – C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:19-cv-8646
ODW (JPRx) (Document No. 190) (D-RJN, Exh. 2); and (3) Order Denying
Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend Order/Motion for Relief, filed March 31, 2022, in
United States District Court – C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:19-cv-8646 ODW (JPRx)
(Document No. 213) (D-RJN, Exh. 3), is granted.
 
Background
Plaintiffs filed their initial complaint on February 7, 2023,
alleging four causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) intentional
misrepresentation, fraud in the inducement; (3) promissory estoppel; and (4)
declaratory relief.  On November 21,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the first amended complaint (“FAC”).  On March 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
operative SAC alleging two causes of action: (1) intentional misrepresentation,
fraud in the inducement; and (2) promissory estoppel.
This action arises out of Noble’s employment by Defendants from
around May 2018 until her termination on June 18, 2019.  (SAC ¶9.) 
Plaintiffs allege during Noble’s employment she was not paid all of the agreed
upon commissions she was entitled to.  (SAC
¶10.)   Plaintiffs allege during Noble’s
employment she suffered from sexually harassing conduct and battery by her
supervisor, Pruter, that was severe and/or pervasive.  (SAC ¶11.) 

Plaintiffs allege Noble complained about the sexually harassing
conduct to the police in Lloydminster, Alberta, Canada.  (SAC ¶12.) 
Plaintiffs allege after Noble complained to the police, she was
terminated in retaliation for her complaints on or about June 18, 2019.  (SAC ¶13.) 

Plaintiffs allege Noble sued Defendants for wrongful termination
and other causes of action and litigated her case in United States District
Court, Case No. 2:19-cv-08646 ODW (JPRx) before Hon. Otis D. Wright, II
(“Underlying Action”).  (SAC ¶14.)  Plaintiffs allege Noble was represented by Eisenberg
& Associates (“E&A”) in the Underlying Action.  (SAC ¶14.) 

Plaintiffs allege on August 12, 2021, the parties entered into a
conditional Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release (“Agreement”),
pursuant to which Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiffs $75,000 twenty-one days
after the execution of the Agreement via a single check to payable to E&A’s
Client Trust Account, which was to be delivered to Eisenberg’s office located
at 3580 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1260, Los Angeles, CA 90010.  (SAC ¶15, Exh. A.)  
Plaintiffs allege by entering into the Agreement, Defendants
agreed to remit the settlement funds to Eisenberg as an express intended
third-party beneficiary of the Agreement for the payment of his earned
attorney’s fees.  (SAC ¶16.)  Plaintiffs allege the Agreement was
conditional on a dismissal with prejudice of criminal charges against Pruter by
the Canadian Crown Attorneys’/Prosecutor’s Office (Information Number
19-75005953).  (SAC ¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege if this condition was not
satisfied within fourteen (14) days of the full execution of the Agreement
(i.e., by August 26, 2021), the Agreement would be deemed null and void.  (SAC ¶17.) 

Plaintiffs allege as part of the Agreement, the parties also
entered into a stipulation and filed a corresponding proposed order on August
13, 2021, which requested a continuing of pending scheduling order deadlines to
facilitate the settlement.  (SAC
¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege a true and
correct copy of the August 13, 2021, stipulation and proposed order is attached
to the Agreement as Exhibit B within the Agreement.  (SAC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege the stipulation represented to the court that “[t]he
parties have signed and exchanged a written settlement agreement (potentially resolving
all pending claims between the parties) specifying several events that must
occur over the next month in order to complete the settlement terms.”  (SAC ¶19.) 

Plaintiffs allege as part of the Agreement, Noble agreed to
present a written request for a full and complete dismissal with prejudice of
all criminal claims, charges, warrants against Pruter, in the form of the
letter attached as Exhibit C to the Agreement, to the Toronto Crown Attorney/
Prosecutor’s Office and the Toronto Law Enforcement Office.  (SAC ¶20.) 
Plaintiffs allege upon signing the Agreement, Plaintiffs immediately
began working towards executing their obligations thereunder and contacted
Detective Rich Petrie, who works in 52nd Division of the Toronto Police Service
as a Detective (No. 2232).  (SAC
¶21.)  
Plaintiffs allege on August 12, 2021, Noble signed and Plaintiffs
emailed the exact letter from Exhibit C of the Agreement to Detective Rich
Petrie of the Toronto Police Service, which stated “I hereby request a full and
complete dismissal with prejudice of all criminal claims, charges, warrants
against Dorcy Pruter pertaining to my allegations against her (Information Number
19-75005953). I further request written confirmation of the dismissal with prejudice
of the above referenced criminal charges.” 
(SAC ¶22.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 13, 2021, Detective Rich Petrie
emailed both E&A and counsel for Defendants confirming that he had
“completed the withdrawal request and had it approved by a Crown Attorney.”  (SAC ¶23.) Plaintiffs allege Detective Petrie
also confirmed that the proper department for Noble to bring her criminal
allegations against Pruter was and is still the Toronto Police Service.  (SAC ¶23, Exh. B.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 20, 2021, Detective Rich Petrie
emailed E&A stating that he had spoken with the Assistant Crown Attorney
and received authorization from her to withdraw the criminal charge of sexual
assault against Pruter.  (SAC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege Detective Petrie also made
clear that once a criminal charge is withdrawn, the charge is permanently
closed and will not be prosecuted.  (SAC
¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege E&A
forwarded this email to counsel for Defendants explaining that once the Crown
Attorney withdrew the criminal charges against Pruter, all conditions precedent
would be satisfied, and payment would be due on September 2, 2021.  (SAC ¶24, Exh. C.)  Plaintiffs allege on August 26, 2021, E&A
found out that the charges against Pruter were dismissed. (SAC ¶25.)  Plaintiffs allege E&A immediately
forwarded the confirmation of the dismissal to counsel for Defendants.  (SAC ¶25, Exh. D.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 27, 2021, Detective Rich Petrie
emailed a confirmation that the Crown Attorney had withdrawn all criminal
charges on August 26, 2021, and confirmed that the criminal matter against Pruter
was permanently closed.  (SAC ¶26.)  Plaintiffs allege that same day, E&A
copied counsel for Defendants on his response email to Detective Petrie so that
Defendants would be assured that the criminal charges against Pruter were
dropped.  (SAC ¶26.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 31, 2021, counsel for Defendants
emailed E&A doubting that the dismissed charges against Pruter were “with
prejudice.”  (SAC ¶27.)  Plaintiffs allege E&A responded on
September 1, 2021, and reiterated that per Detective Petrie, the charges were
permanently closed and could not be prosecuted and therefore Defendants’
payment was due the next day under the Agreement.  (SAC ¶27, Exh. E.)  Plaintiffs allege as far as they understood, the
criminal charges against Pruter were dismissed “with prejudice.”  (SAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants had a criminal attorney in Canada and knew
there is no such terminology as “dismissal with prejudice” in the Canadian
court system.  (SAC ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege nonetheless, Defendants requested
this language to be included in the Agreement.  (SAC ¶29.) 
Plaintiffs allege thus, Defendants knew that Plaintiffs could only
substantially perform under the verbatim wording of the Agreement, which
Plaintiffs did.  (SAC ¶29.)  
Plaintiffs allege on September 9, 2021, E&A and counsel for
Defendants discussed that Plaintiffs have performed their obligations under the
agreement, that the terminology “with prejudice” did not exist in the Canadian
court system, and that Defendants’ promised $75,000 payment was owing.  (SAC ¶30.) 
Plaintiffs even offered to amend the Agreement to state that if
Plaintiff ever attempted to do the impossible and refile the same charges
against Pruter, Plaintiff would be required to pay back the full settlement
amount plus interest.  (SAC ¶30.)
Plaintiffs allege despite receiving notice that Plaintiffs
satisfied all conditions precedent for Defendants to pay the settlement funds
pursuant to the Agreement, Defendants refused to honor their obligations
thereunder and breached the Agreement.  (SAC
¶31.)  Plaintiffs allege on information
and belief that Defendants entered into the Agreement without ever intending to
honor their obligations thereunder.  (SAC
¶32.)  Plaintiffs allege rather,
Defendants entered into the Agreement solely to induce Plaintiffs to dismiss
both the criminal charges against Pruter in Canada, as well as the Underlying
Action.  (SAC ¶32.)  
Plaintiffs allege on October 5, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to
Enforce Settlement Agreement, or in the Alternative, for a New Scheduling Order
in the Underlying Action.  (SAC
¶33.)  Plaintiffs allege on October 12,
2021, Judge Otis D. Wright, II ruled in the Underlying Action that “[t]he Court
has no interest in monitoring parties’ compliance with the terms of a
settlement agreement. Given that the parties have settled the matter, this case
should be dismissed.  Any failure to
satisfy the terms of the parties’ settlement agreement, including payment, should
be enforced in a subsequent lawsuit. The Clerk of the Court shall close this
case.”  (SAC ¶34, Exh. F.)  Plaintiffs allege they now bring this action
to enforce the Agreement per the federal court’s instructions.  (SAC ¶35.)
On November 1, 2023, this Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ initial Complaint as to the 3rd cause of action, and sustained
Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, and 4th causes of action with 20 days
leave to amend.
On February 29, 2024, this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s FAC with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd cause of action and
sustained without leave to amend the 1st and 4th causes of action.
On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer.  On July 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
opposition.  On July 9, 2024, Defendants
filed their reply.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur on the basis that Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action
fails state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states that on April 15, 2024,
he emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel asking to meet and confer by telephone about the
intended demurrer, and Plaintiff’s counsel never responded to his invitation to
meet and confer.  (Decl. of Abbott ¶2.)[2]  Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration is not sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a) because he does not
declare that he met and conferred in person, by telephone, or by video
conference.  However, failure to
sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4); Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355; Olson v.
Hornbrook Community Services District (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 502, 515.)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
          Intentional
Misrepresentation, Fraud in the Inducement (1st COA)
“The elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for
deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.’”  (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)  Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. 
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must
be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.)  The specificity requirement means
a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant,
the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the
representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiffs allege they and Defendants entered into the Agreement
on or about August 12, 2021.  (SAC ¶38.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants agreed to pay
Plaintiffs the sum of $75,000.00 as full settlement of all claims arising from
the Underlying Action and in consideration of Noble agreeing to dismiss the
criminal charges against Pruter in Canada. 
(SAC ¶40.)  
Plaintiffs allege they agreed to dismiss both the criminal charges
against Pruter in the Canadian criminal court system, as well as the Underlying
Action, in consideration of receiving the $75,000.00 settlement amount.  (SAC ¶41.) 
Plaintiffs allege they performed all, or substantially all, of the
obligations that the settlement Agreement required them to do.  (SAC ¶42.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to satisfy the terms of the
Agreement by refusing to pay the sum owed to Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶43.)
Plaintiffs allege on their belief that Defendants entered into the
Agreement on August 12, 2021, without the true intention to fulfill the
$75,000.00 payment owed to Plaintiffs.  (SAC
¶44.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants have
not made a good faith attempt to render payment of the settlement to Plaintiffs
and have led Plaintiffs to believe that Defendants never intended to fulfill the
Agreement, but rather pushed for settlement solely to lock Plaintiffs in to an
agreed upon settlement price for the Underlying Action and to achieve the
permanent dismissal of the criminal charges against Pruter.  (SAC ¶45.)
Plaintiffs allege that after insisting that the Agreement was
valid and that their failure to pay Plaintiffs was due to a technicality in the
wording of the dismissal of the criminal charges against Pruter, Defendants
later changed their position and insisted that the Agreement was illegal from
the get-go and never enforceable against Defendants after Plaintiffs sought to be
paid the promised settlement funds.  (SAC
¶46.)  Plaintiffs allege they never attempted
to reopen the criminal charges against Pruter and Plaintiffs are informed and
believe that there are no criminal charges pending against Pruter related to Pruter’s
conduct towards Noble.  (SAC ¶47.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants have acted intentionally and
dishonestly by not fulfilling their legal and contractual obligations under the
Agreement.  (SAC ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant’s entrance into
the Agreement and subsequent failure to pay on the terms were done in bad
faith.  (SAC ¶49.)  Plaintiffs allege the conduct of each of the
Defendants was fraudulent, malicious, and oppressive as defined in California
Civil Code Section 3294, and, in addition to actual damages, Plaintiffs should
recover punitive and exemplary damages to make an example of and to punish
Defendants.  (SAC ¶50.)  
Plaintiffs allege as a result of Defendants’ fraudulent inducement
to enter into the Agreement that Defendants never complied with, E&A did
substantial work for Noble, including multiple filings in the Underlying
Action, to enforce the settlement agreement or continue with the Underlying
Action.  (SAC ¶51.) Plaintiffs allege
they also hired new counsel to bring this case to enforce the Agreement.  (SAC ¶51.) 
Thus, Plaintiffs also request damages for attorneys’ fees and costs
incurred in an attempt to enforce the Agreement.  (SAC ¶51.)
Plaintiffs allege as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’
fraudulent inducement to enter into the Agreement, Noble acted to dismiss the
criminal charges pending in Canada against Pruter with prejudice and not pursue
her civil claims from the Underlying Action that Plaintiffs valued over
$200,000 had her case been litigated to a verdict, and has thereby been
deprived of receiving justice or fair compensation for the wrongs, Pruter made
her suffer.  (SAC ¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants induced
Plaintiffs to dismiss Noble’s civil claims valued at hundreds of thousands of
dollars before the case went to trial.  (SAC
¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
further induced Plaintiffs to spend thousands of dollars in attorneys’ fees on the
preparation of a settlement agreement, on contacting the Canadian criminal
justice authorities to seek the dismissal of the criminal charges against Pruter
and following up with Defendants about their broken commitment to pay
Plaintiffs the promised settlement amounts. 
(SAC ¶52.)

Plaintiffs allege after the parties entered into the conditional
agreement and informed the court of same, the Federal court set an OSC re
dismissal and took all other dates off calendar.  (SAC ¶53; D-RJN,
Exh. 3.)  Plaintiffs allege
that, thereafter, Plaintiff opposed the dismissal due to Defendants’ position
that Plaintiff had not completed the condition precedent under the Agreement.  (SAC ¶53.) Plaintiffs allege that despite
Defendants’ position, they asked the Federal court to dismiss the federal action
while simultaneously claiming there was no settlement. (SAC ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege the Federal
court then dismissed the case based on the representation that the case had
been settled.  (SAC
¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege thereafter,
Plaintiffs spent additional attorneys’ fees in filing a motion to alter or
amend the court’s order and judgment and to reopen the case.  (SAC ¶53.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants again opposed this motion.  (SAC ¶53.)
 Plaintiffs allege the Federal court then
confirmed it dismissed the case without prejudice to re-filing the case in a subsequent
enforcement action.  (SAC ¶53.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ inconsistent conduct in arguing that
the settlement agreement is void when confronting Plaintiffs, while
simultaneously asking for the Federal court to dismiss the Federal action
further induced Plaintiff to spend thousands of dollars in attorneys’ fees and costs
based on Defendants’ fraud on Plaintiff and Defendants’ breach of the duty of
candor to the federal court in requesting dismissal of the Federal action
despite separately claiming that the settlement was void.  (SAC ¶54.)  Plaintiffs allege in total, they have
been forced to spend over $50,000 in attorneys’ fees and costs as a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ fraudulent actions ever since Defendants reneged
on their promise to pay Plaintiff the $75,000 settlement amount.  (SAC ¶55.) 

Plaintiffs fails to allege a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation.  The “tort of another”
doctrine—an exception to the general rule that parties bear their own
fees—applies only when the tort forces the plaintiff to bring or defend an
action against a third party.  (Prentice
v. North American Title Guaranty Corp., Alameda Division (1963) 59 Cal.2d
618, 620; see also Glendale Federal Savings & Loan Association v. Marina
View Heights Development Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 101, 150 [allowing fees
as damages for bankruptcy proceeding with third party but rejecting fees as
damages for dispute between the parties].)  Here, Plaintiffs do not allege or argue there
was a third-party action that would permit attorneys’ fees and damages under the
tort of another doctrine.  Further,
emotional distress damages cannot be recovered in an action based on
fraud.  (Branch v. Homefed Bank (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 793, 798.)  While Plaintiff
does allege punitive damages, conduct that amounts to a breach of an agreement
is insufficient at the pleading stage to support emotional distress damages.  (Allen v. Jones (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d
207, 215.)  Wrongdoing in connection with
the formation or performance of a contract is not enough by itself to permit
emotional distress damages; there must be a completely separate wrong that is
“so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  (Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012)
208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1610.)  Further, “Punitive
damages, even in a fraud action, cannot be recovered unless there are ‘actual,
substantial damages.’”  (Bezaire v.
Fidelity & Deposit Co. (1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 888, 892.)
Here, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants executed a settlement
agreement without intending to fulfill their obligations. There is nothing “so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  There is no distinct act
that would cause emotional injury; indeed, the only alleged “act” is a
purported intention not to pay $75,000.  The
intention to withhold payment does not rise to the level of outrageous action
as a matter of law.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation is sustained without leave to
amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC is sustained without leave
to amend as to the 1st cause of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  