 Case Number:  23VECV03416    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
JOHN PAUL DEJORIA, TRUSTEE OF JP'S NEVADA
  TRUST, A NEVADA TRUST,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
PEGGY NIPAR, TRUSTEE OF THE CHARLES A.
  ORWICK, III TRUST OF 2001, et al,
 
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03416            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
Demurrer TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
The Demurrer is overruled.
 
I.
BACKGROUND
 
A.
Factual
 
Plaintiff John Paul DeJoria, trustee of the JP’s Nevada
Trust (“Plaintiff”) is “a philanthropist who supports environmental causes,
including…land and wildlife conservation” who sought to “buy free and clear
from debt numerous ranches spanning thousands of acres in Northern California”
through a non-party, Robert Fisher (“Fisher”), who “advertised that he had
unrivaled abilities to identify—and, more importantly, create the opportunity
to buy—vast swaths of unspoiled wilderness…. for a fraction of its value
because the land came with valuable water rights and other benefits.” (Id.
at 2:1, 3:8–9.) Plaintiff entrusted Fisher with approximately $18 million to
buy such land, “including three large tracts of real estate known as the Spring
Creek Ranch, the Circle C Ranch, and the Battle Creek Ranch” (collectively, the
“Ranches”), which are each currently titled in the name of either Peggy Nipar,
successor trustee of the Charles A. Orwick, III Trust of 2001 or Peggy Nipar,
successor trustee of the Charles A. Orwick Charitable Remainder Unitrust
(together, “Defendants”). (Id. at 3:9.) Instead of buying the Ranches
for Plaintiff, however, Fisher and Defendants “conspired to allow [Defendants’
predecessor in interest] to take ownership of the Ranches through foreclosure
or threat of foreclosure,” “pocketed the money,” “then loaded up the properties
with debt,” and “effectively st[ole] the Ranches from Plaintiff.” (Id.
at 4:10.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants now “seek to sell or
have sold the Ranches” to “drain” the Charles A. Orwick, III Trust of 2001 and
the Charles A. Orwick Charitable Remainder Trust (together, the “Orwick
Trusts”) “of their assets with the intent to hinder, delay, and defraud
Defendants’ creditors—including Plaintiff.” (Id. at 5:14.)
 
B.
Procedural
 
On November 13, 2013, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against, inter alios, Fisher and Defendants, alleging, inter alia,
fraud and conversion. That lawsuit, LC101022 (the “Fraud Case”), was found to
be not related to the instant lawsuit on December 07, 2023.
 
On August 04, 2023, Plaintiff initiated the instant
lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendants with one
cause of action for Voidable Transfer under Civil Code § 3439.04. On
December 14, 2023, Plaintiff amended the Complaint (by filing the “FAC”).
 
On January 23, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer (the
“Demurrer”). On February 01, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Demurrer (by filing
the “Opposition”). On February 05, 2024, Defendants amended the notice of
demurrer and rescheduled the hearing on the Demurrer for a later date, and on
February 07, 2024, Plaintiffs replied to the Opposition (by filing the
“Reply”).
 
II.
PARTIES’ ARGUMENTS
            
A.
The Demurrer
 
Defendants demur to the FAC on the grounds that it fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for voidable transfer
under Civil Code section 3439.04 of the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act
(“UVTA”).
 
Defendants argue that the FAC makes legal conclusions
that Parties are in a creditor-debtor relationship but fails to actually plead
facts showing such, as a final judgement in the Fraud Case would be needed
first, which has not yet occurred. (Demurrer p. 5.) Additionally, Defendants
argue that the FAC fails to adequately plead facts to support its allegation
that “a transfer was made or that an obligation was incurred by Defendant
pursuant to the UVTA.” (Id. at p. 6.) Finally, Defendants contend that
the FAC fails to plead with specificity actual or constructive fraud and fails
to sufficiently state any injury resulting therefrom. (Id. at pp. 7–9.)
 
B.
The Opposition
 
Plaintiff observes first that the Demurrer is untimely as
against the initial hearing date on February 15, 2024. (Opp. p. 6.) Then,
Plaintiff argues that “transfer” under the UVTA has a “broad meaning” and that
“whether a conveyance was made intent to delay, hinder, or defraud is a question
of fact,” which may be inferred from a variety of surrounding
circumstances. (Id. at pp. 8–9, emphasis original.) Plaintiff argues he
has sufficiently “alleged that Defendant seeks to sell or has sold real
properties to drain trust assets, with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
creditors” and “alleged with particularity the existence of numerous ‘badges of
fraud’ factors.” (Id. at pp. 9–10.) Further, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant is “dead wrong… that a cause of action for fraudulent transfer under
the UVTA must be pled specifically with the same elements as fraud claims,”
and, in fact, “the [UVTA’s] legislative history… made clear that fraud is not
a necessary element of a claim under the UVTA.” (Id. at pp. 11–12, emphasis
original.) Plaintiff contends that he is a creditor and Defendants are debtors
under the UVTA because final judgement on the Fraud Case is not required
therefor. (Id. at p. 12.) Finally, Plaintiff argues injury, though not
required by the UVTA, is pled, as well as constructive fraud. (Id. at
pp. 14–16.) Plaintiff requests leave to amend. (Id. at pp. 16–17.)
 
C.
The Reply
 
Defendants first note that
because they rescheduled the hearing on the Demurrer to a later date, it is no
longer untimely as against the hearing. (Reply p. 2.) Defendants argue that the
“FAC is insufficient because of its reliance on perfunctory contentions,
deductive fallacies, and bare legal conclusions.” (Id. pp. 2–3.)
Defendants argue that although the definition of “transfer” may be broad,
Plaintiff still fails to argue that such a transfer “was made” within the
meaning of the UVTA. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Defendants contend that Plaintiff
is required to plead actual or constructive fraud but fails to plead facts that
support his allegations of the presence of “badges of fraud.” (Id. at
pp. 5–8.) Defendants further repeat that Plaintiff is not a “creditor” under
the UVTA and that Plaintiff does not plead any injury, as required. (Id.
at pp. 8–10.) Finally, Defendants propose that leave to amend should not be
granted. (Id. at p. 10.) 
            
III. ANALYSIS 
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a] statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint ordinarily is
sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) A plaintiff “may allege on
information and belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge,
if he has information leading him to believe that the allegations are true.” (Pridonoff
v. Balokovich (1951) 36 Cal.2d 788, 792.) However, in alleging fraud,
allegations made on information and belief “without a statement of the facts
upon which the belief is founded” are “clearly insufficient.” (Woodring v.
Basso (1961) 195 Cal.App.2d 459, 464–65.)
 
California Civil Code § 3439.04, under which
Plaintiff brings his sole cause of action, provides, in part:
 
(a)  
A transfer made or obligation incurred by a
debtor is voidable as to a creditor, whether the creditor’s claim
arose before or after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred, if
the debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation as follows:
 
(1)  With
actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.
 
(2)  Without
receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation, and the debtor either:
 
(A) Was
engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction for which the
remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation to the
business or transaction.
 
(B) Intended
to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the
debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor’s ability to pay as
they became due.
 
(Cal. Civil Code § 3439.04, subd. (a).)
 
Thus, to recover for a violation of the UVTA, a
plaintiff must prove: (1) the plaintiff has a right to payment from the debtor;
(2) the debtor transferred property or incurred an obligation to the
defendant; (3) the debtor transferred the property or incurred the
obligation with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud one or more of the
debtor's creditors; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the debtor's conduct
was a substantial favor in causing the plaintiff's harm. (Ibid.; see
also CACI No. 4200 (2023 ed.) p. 670.) “The purpose of the UVTA is to prevent
debtors from placing, beyond the reach of creditors, property that should be
made available to satisfy a debt.” (Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 811, 817.)
 
The UVTA “is a contemporary retooling of the common law
remedies available to unsecured creditors seeking payment from debtors who
evade collection. Originally enacted as the ‘Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act’
(‘UFTA’) in 1986, its retitling in 2016 reflected the Legislature's intent to
reduce misconceptions that the law requires proof of fraudulent intent. Little
else changed in substance.” (Nagel v. Westen (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 740, 747, internal quotations and citations omitted.) Because
the UVTA “did not alter the essential elements of a cause of action
for a fraudulent or voidable transfer,” courts “may rely on opinions
addressing the UFTA” for purposes of analyzing the sufficiency of
a pleading. (Aghaian v. Minassian (2020) Cal.App.5th 447, n. 8.)
 
            A.
Existence of a Creditor-Debtor Relationship
 
Parties disagree as to whether the FAC adequately pleads
that they are in a creditor-debtor relationship. Parties agree that the
relevant definitions of “creditor,” “debtor,” and “claim” are set out in
California Civil Code § 3439.01, subdivisions (b), (c), (e).
 
(b)  “Claim,”
except as used in “claim for relief,” means a right to payment, whether or not
the right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent,
matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or
unsecured.
 
(c)  
“Creditor” means a person that has
a claim, and includes an assignee of a general assignment for the benefit of
creditors, as defined in Section 493.010 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
of a debtor.
 
…
 
(e) “Debtor” means a person that is liable on a
claim.
 
(Cal. Civil Code § 3439.01.)
 
Defendants cite Cortez v. Vogt (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 917, 929 (hereafter, Cortez) to assert that “a cause of
action for fraudulent transfer under the UVTA does not arise until judgment in
the underlying matter is reached, thereby establishing ‘the actual legal
existence of a debtor-creditor relationship.’” (Demurrer p. 5.) We disagree
with this reading of Cortez. Cortez establishes that the statute
of limitations for causes of action under the UVTA begins to run upon final
judgment in an underlying case establishing a debt between parties, but it does
not necessarily follow that a UVTA action may therefore not be brought until
such final judgment. Cortez repeats quite the opposite: “A key feature
of the UFTA is that a creditor is permitted, but not required, to maintain an
action to annul a fraudulent conveyance before his debt has matured”; “it is no
longer necessary that a creditor reduce his claim to judgment before seeking
the benefit of the remedy”; and “it is clear the main thrust of the UFTA, as
with the Uniform Fraudulent  Conveyance
Act, is that the act permits, but does not require, a creditor to bring suit to
set aside a fraudulent transfer before the claim has matured.” (Cortez v.
Vogt (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 917, 930–31.) Defendants additionally cite Potter
v. Alliance United Ins. Co. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 894, 906 (hereafter, Potter)
to this point, but Potter merely cites and agrees with Cortez in
establishing when the statute of limitations on a UVTA action begins to run. (Potter
v. Alliance United Ins. Co. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 894, 905–06.) Potter
does not address whether a UVTA action may be brought before final judgment in
an underlying action.
 
We are further persuaded by Plaintiff’s observation that
our Supreme Court of California has specifically stated that the predecessors
to the UVTA, the UFTA and the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyances Act, protect both
present and future creditors. (Mejia v. Reed (2003) 31 Cal.4th 657, 664
[“Under the UFTA, a transfer is fraudulent, both as to present
and future creditors, if it is made with actual intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor,” internal quotations omitted]; Severance
v. Knight-Counihan Co. (1947) 29 Cal.2d 561, 567
[“Future creditors as well as present creditors are protected by the
legislation relating to fraudulent conveyances.”]; Chalmers v. Sheehy
(1901) 132 Cal. 459, 465 [“[O]ne having a claim for a tort is a creditor before
the commencement of an action thereon, as well as after, and as such creditor,
is, upon recovering judgment, entitled to avoid a
fraudulent transfer antedating the commencement of his action.”].)
Appellate courts have stated similarly. (E.g. Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 1036, 1057 [“Certainly, for purposes of the Uniform Fraudulent
Conveyance Act, a tort claimant before judgment is rendered is a ‘creditor’
within the meaning of Civil Code section 3439.01.”].)
 
Thus, per the express language of California Civil Code
§ 3439.01 and per our Supreme Court’s above decisions, we believe that
future creditors, whose right to payment against the debtor has not yet been
reduced to judgment, are protected by the UVTA. Thus, the FAC adequately pleads
that Plaintiff and Defendants are in a creditor-debtor relationship by pleading
the existence of the ongoing Fraud Case.
 
B. Existence of a Transfer
 
“The UVTA applies on its face to
all transfers.” (Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 817.)
“In order for a fraudulent transfer to occur, among other things,
there must be a transfer of an asset as
defined in the UFTA.” (Nagel v. Westen (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 740, 748,
emphasis original.) “‘Transfer’ under the UVTA has a broad meaning.” (Ibid.,
internal quotations omitted, quoting Sturm v. Moyer (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 299, 308.) The UVTA defines “transfer” as “every mode, direct or
indirect, absolute or conditional, voluntary or involuntary, of disposing of or
parting with an asset or an interest in an asset, and includes payment of
money, release, lease, license, and creation of a lien or other
encumbrance.” (Cal. Civil Code § 3439.01, subd. (m).)
 
California Civil Code § 3439.07, subdivision (a)
sets out the remedies available to a creditor under the UVTA, which include
avoidance of a transfer, attachment, the equitable remedies of injunction
and receivership, and “[a]ny other relief the circumstances may require.”
(California Civil Code § 3439.07, subd. (a).) “Plaintiffs are not required
to wait until they suffer actual harm, but may seek injunctive relief
against threatened infringement of their rights.” (Southern Christian
Leadership Conference v. Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d
207, 223.) “[T]he purpose of a preliminary injunction under
the UFTA is to prevent further disposition by the debtor or
a transferee, or both, of the asset transferred.” (Oiye v. Fox, supra,
at 1059, internal quotations omitted.)
 
Defendants argue that “Plaintiff fails to plead facts
sufficient to establish that a transfer was made or that an obligation was
incurred by Defendant pursuant to the UVTA.” (Demurrer p. 6.) Defendants
contend that to plead such facts, Plaintiff must “allege facts sufficient to
establish that a transfer was perfected by execution and delivery of a deed
transferring interest in the Ranches, or that an obligation was incurred for
sale of the Ranches by an oral agreement or by a signed record.” (Ibid.)
We do not agree, however, with this narrow definition of “transfer” in regard
to the UVTA, under which, per the above, caselaw, “transfer” should be
interpreted broadly.
 
Plaintiff, on information and belief, alleges that
“Defendants seek to sell or have sold the Ranches, and each of them.” (FAC p.
5.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants either have sold or will sell the
Ranches. A sale of real property is a definite transfer under the UVTA. (E.g. Aghaian
v. Minassian, supra, at 456.) So, Plaintiff alleges a transfer under
the UVTA by alleging that the Ranches have already been sold. Additionally, the
UVTA must be available to prevent future transfers as well as well as past
transfers. This comports with the purpose of the UVTA to prevent debtors
from placing property beyond the reach of creditors, and the text of the UVTA,
which expressly allows injunctive relief to prevent future transfers. Thus,
Plaintiff additionally alleges a transfer under the UVTA by alleging that the
Ranches will be sold.
 
            C.
Existence of Intent to Hinder, Delay, or Defraud
 
“A creditor may set aside a transfer as fraudulent
under Civil Code section 3439.04 by showing actual fraud as defined
in subdivision (a)(1) or by showing constructive fraud as defined in
subdivision (a)(2).” (Chen v. Berenjian, supra at 817.) “Whether
a conveyance was made with fraudulent intent is a question of fact, and proof
often consists of inferences from the circumstances surrounding the transfer.”
(Filip v. Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 834.) “Among other
so-called ‘badges of fraud’ indicating such intent, the fact finder may
consider whether: (1) the debtor made the transfer to an “insider”; (2) the
debtor retained possession or control of the property after the transfer; (3)
the debtor had been sued before making the transfer; (4) the debtor removed or
concealed assets; (5) the value of the consideration received by the debtor was
reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred; and (6) the
transfer occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt was
incurred. None of these factors is determinative, and no minimum or maximum
number of factors is required.” (Aghaian v. Minassian, supra at
456, internal citations omitted, citing Cal. Civil Code § 3439.04, subd.
(b); see also Wyzard v. Goller (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1183, 1191 [“[T]he
presence of one or more of [the badges of fraud] does not create a presumption
of fraud, but is merely evidence from which an inference of fraudulent intent
may be drawn.”].)
 
Parties disagree as to whether the FAC adequately pleads
actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud. However, the FAC specifically alleges
that Defendants have been sued and the sale of the Ranches “are set to occur shortly
before or shortly after a substantial debt is incurred; namely, judgment in the
Fraud Case,” that Defendants “ha[ve] and/or will transferred parts of the
Ranches without recordation of the sale in public records to conceal said
sale,” “that Defendant[s] ha[ve] and/or will transfer parts of the Ranches for
less than fair market,” and “that Defendant[s] ha[ve] and/or will transfer
parts of the Ranches while maintaining possession or control of them.” (FAC p.
7.) These badges of fraud are sufficient to create an inference of fraudulent
intent on the part of Defendants.
 
            D.
Existence of Injury
 
In order to bring a claim under the UVTA, “injury to
the creditor must be shown affirmatively. In other words, prejudice to the
plaintiff is essential. It cannot be said that a creditor has
been injured unless the transfer puts beyond her reach property she
otherwise would be able to subject to the payment of her debt.” (Mehrtash v.
Mehrtash (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 75, 80; see also Fidelity National Title
Ins. Co. v. Schroeder (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 834, 845.)
 
Here, Plaintiff pleads that the Ranches “collectively
constitute substantially all of the assets” of the Orwick Trusts, that their
disposition by sale “for less than fair market value” will “leave[] assets of
the [Orwick Trusts] substantially below their obligations and thus insolvent,”
that Defendants will nonetheless “maintain[] possession or control of [the
Ranches],” and, impliedly, that Defendants’ creditors, including Plaintiff,
will thereby have their ability to collect on their debts thereby impaired.
(FAC p. 7.) These alleged facts indicate that any transfer of the Ranches have
or would put the property, which Plaintiff as a creditor would otherwise be
able to subject to the payment of his debt, beyond Plaintiff’s reach, and is
therefore sufficient to plead injury.
 
Accordingly, this court overrules the Demurrer.
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
The Demurrer is overruled.
 
Dated:             March
5, 2024                                     _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  