  Case Number:  23VECV01883    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
THERESA VALENCIA,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
DEVONSHIRE
  ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV01883            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 18, 2014, defendant
and moving party G.F.C. Encino
Associates II, LLC (“Moving Party”), a real property owner, entered into a
commercial lease agreement (the “Lease”) with defendant and opposing party
Devonshire Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a House of Galbi (“Opposing Party” and,
together with the Moving Party, “Parties”), a restaurant owner, through which
the Moving Party leased certain real property (the “Property”) to the Opposing
Party. On June 26, 2016, Parties modified the Lease by way of a first amendment
(the “Lease Amendment”).
 
On May 8, 2021, plaintiff Theresa
Valencia (“Plaintiff”) tripped and fell over a pothole in the asphalt of an
outdoor parking lot on the Property outside Opposing Party’s restaurant, House
of Galbi, and thereby sustained injuries. On May 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against the
Moving Party and the Opposing Party, alleging causes of action for (1) premises
liability negligence and (2) general negligence.
 
On July
25, 2023, the Moving Party filed a cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”)
against, inter alios, the Opposing Party, alleging a cause of action
for, inter alia, breach of contract.
 
On
December 11, 2023, the Moving Party filed a motion for summary adjudication
(the “Motion”) seeking judgment in its favor as to the Cross-Complaint’s breach
of contract cause of action against the Opposing Party, as well as a request
for judicial notice (the “Request for Judicial Notice”). On February 20, 2024,
the Opposing Party filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion, and on
February 26, 2024, the Moving Party replied to the Opposition. 
 
II. PARTIES’ ARGUMENTS
            
A. The Motion and Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Moving Party moves for
summary adjudication as to the
Cross-Complaint’s breach of contract cause of action against the Opposing
Party. Alternatively, Moving Party requests that this court adjudicate the
following issues: 
 
(1)  
that Opposing Party has a duty to defend Moving Party against the claims
of Plaintiff;
 
(2)  
that Opposing Party has a duty to indemnify Moving Party against the
claims of Plaintiff;
 
(3)   that
Opposing Party’s failure to defend and indemnify Moving Party constitutes
breach of the Lease; and 
 
(4)   that
the Moving Party is entitled to recover its attorney’s fees to date pursuant to
the Lease.
 
The Moving Party states that the
Lease contains (1) an indemnity provision by which the Opposing Party is to
defend and indemnify the Moving Party against claims resulting from the
Opposing Party’s use of the Property; (2) a provision by which the Opposing
Party was made responsible for maintaining the Property’s parking lot; and (3)
an attorney’s fees provision by which the unsuccessful party in a suit between
Parties to enforce the Lease is responsible for the prevailing party’s
attorney’s fees. (Motion pp. 1, 5.) The Moving Party additionally explains that
despite having tendered its defense and indemnity to the Opposing Party, the
Opposing Party refuses to defend or indemnify the Moving Party. (Ibid.)
The Moving Party argues that Plaintiff’s injury arose from the Opposing Party’s
use of the Property and failure to maintain the parking lot. (Id. at pp.
3–4.) The Moving Party contends that the Opposing Party thereby breaches the
Lease and it is entitled to attorney’s fees. (Id. at pp. 3–5.)
 
The Moving Party seeks judicial
notice of the Complaint and the Cross-Complaint.
 
B. The Opposition
 
The Opposing Party argues that
there is no admissible evidence to support the Motion because the volume of
evidence accompanying the Motion lacks foundation of authentication and is
hearsay due to violating the best evidence rule, because the declaration of
Frank Chen (the “Chen Declaration”) lacks a sufficient showing of personal
knowledge, and because judicial notice of the Complaint is sought to prove the
truth of the allegations therein. (Opposition pp. 3–4.) Consequently, the
Opposing Party contends that neither the existence nor the terms of the Lease
have been shown. (Id. at p. 4.) The Opposing Party further argues that
the Moving Party is not entitled to attorney’s fees because there will be no
“unsuccessful party” or “prevailing party” until the Cross-Complaint has been
litigated through trial; that the Moving Party’s separate statement
accompanying the Motion does not set out the Cross-Complaint’s cause of action
for breach of contract; that adjudication of the breach of contract action and
the duty to indemnify is premature because no claim for damages has been
resolved against the Moving Party; and that the Moving Party has no damages
under its breach of contract claim because its legal defense is being paid for
by its insurance company. (Id. at pp. 4–7.)
 
C. The Reply
 
The
Moving Party argues that the Lease is properly before this court because the
Opposing Party previously admitted its existence and authenticity in response
to a request for admission and that the Complaint is properly before this court
because the Moving Party only seeks to refer to its allegations, not the truth
thereof. (Reply pp. 2–4.) The Moving Party additionally states, “[w]hen there
is no material conflict in the extrinsic evidence, the trial court interprets
the contract as a matter of law.” (Id. at p. 4.) The Moving Party argues
that it has sufficiently shifted the burden to the Opposing Party to show it
need not defend and indemnity the Moving Party but the Opposing Party “failed
to introduce an iota of evidence.” (Id. at pp. 4–5.) The Moving Party
observes that if this court finds in its favor on the Motion, there would be a
“prevailing party” within the meaning of the Lease’s attorney’s fees provision.
(Id. at p. 5.) The Moving Party further observes that this court may
adjudicate an issue of duty on a motion for summary adjudication even if
Plaintiff’s damages are not yet proven. (Id. at p. 6.) Finally, the
Moving Party contends that its insurer’s payment of its legal fees are
irrelevant. (Id. at pp. 6–7.)
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
A. The Request for Judicial Notice
 
“Judicial¿notice¿is the recognition and acceptance by
the court, for use by the trier of fact or by the court, of the existence of a
matter of law or fact that is relevant to an issue in the action without
requiring formal proof of the matter.” (Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of
University of California¿(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 364.)
“Judicial¿notice¿may not be taken of any matter unless authorized or required
by law.” (Cal. Evid. C. §¿450.) Matters subject to¿judicial¿notice¿are listed
in Cal. Evid. C. §§¿451–452. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.¿(2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) “The underlying theory of¿judicial¿notice¿is that the
matter being¿judicially¿noticed¿is a law or fact that is¿not reasonably
subject to dispute.”¿(Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882 (emphasis
original).) “Although the¿existence¿of a document may
be¿judicially¿noticeable, the truth of statements contained in the document and
its proper interpretation are not subject to¿judicial¿notice¿if those matters
are reasonably disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.,¿supra,
113 (emphasis original);¿Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of
California¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 836.) “It is well settled that
a court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of matters stated in pleadings
or affidavits in the court file of another case, although it can be noticed
that the documents exist. Judicial notice can be taken only of the
contents of orders, findings of fact, conclusions of law, and judgments.” (Bennett
v. Regents of University of California (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 347, 358, fn.
7.)
 
Thus, this court may and does take judicial notice of
the existence of the Complaint and the Cross-Complaint but not the truth of the
allegations asserted therein.
 
B. The Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action . . . [or] one or more claims for damages . . . if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit . . . [or] that there is
no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil
Code[.] A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) The motion for summary
adjudication "shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment." (Id., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).) Therefore, “[t]he
moving party must point to undisputed facts that compel adjudication or
judgment in its favor. If the moving party is successful, the opposing party
must then raise triable issues as to the other's assertions of undisputed fact.”
(Lunardi v. Great-West Life Assurance Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 807,
819.)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “Thus, a plaintiff bears
the burden of persuasion that ‘each element of’ the ‘cause of action’
in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there is no defense’ thereto.” (Ibid.)
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden
of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue
of material fact.” (Ibid.)
 
“A triable issue of material fact exists where ‘the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.’” (California
Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California Inc. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 660,
665, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra at 850.) “A
court considering a motion for summary adjudication must view the evidence and
reasonable inferences from the evidence in the light most favorable to the
opposing party, as it would on a motion for summary judgment.” (All of US or
None - Riverside Chapter v. Hamrick (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 751, 783.)
 
We note, as suggested by the Moving Party in the Reply, that the Opposing
Party does not contest any of the triable issues of material fact other than by
submitting evidentiary objections. We therefore address these objections first.
 
The Chen Declaration
 
“Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations shall be made
by any person on personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence,
and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the
matters stated in the affidavits or declarations.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§437c, subd. (d).)
 
The Chen Declaration is admissible. It states that he is a managing member
of the Moving Party and that he has personal knowledge of the facts set forth
therein and could and would testify to such. (Chen Decl. p. 1.) The Opposing
Party contends that “there is insufficient showing of personal knowledge”
because “there is only one sentence that states he has personal knowledge and
can competently testify.” (Opposition p. 3.) However, it is sufficient for a
declarant to “state[] he ha[s] personal knowledge of the facts stated
in his declaration [when] his background and experience sufficiently
establish[] his personal knowledge of the information provided.” (Taylor
v. Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc. (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 966, 983.)
Although the Opposing Party observes that the Chen Declaration does not state
for how long Mr. Frank Chen has been a managing member of the Moving Party, we
are satisfied that a company’s managing member would be familiar with both
present and past contracts of his company.
 
            The Lease and Lease
Amendment
 
The Lease and of the Lease Amendment are included in the Moving Party’s
volume of evidence included with the Motion and are properly before this court.
Although the Opposing Party contends that these documents lack foundation of
authentication, the Chen Declaration adequately authenticates them.
Additionally, we take note of the Moving Party’s observation that the Opposing
Party has previously admitted to the existence and contents of the Lease.
(Reply p. 3.)
 
The Opposing Party contends that the Lease and the Lease Amendment are
“hearsay without exception.” (Opposition p. 3.) We disagree. “Hearsay may
be briefly understood as an out-of-court statement offered for the truth of its
content.” (People v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665, 674.) “[D]ocuments
containing operative facts, such as the words forming an agreement, are
not hearsay.” (Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 316.)
Both the Lease and the Lease Agreement are forms of agreements and do not assert
the truth of any allegations therein. Thus, they are not hearsay.
 
            The E-Mails
 
The Opposing Party objects to each of the e-mails in the volume of evidence
that the Moving Party includes with the Motion on the grounds that “there is no
declaration or other document authenticating any of the documents. No one with
personal knowledge has even identified them.” (Opposing Party’s Objections to
Evidence.) This is, however, untrue, as the Moving Party attaches to the Motion
a declaration by its attorney, Marjorie Matooka (the “Matooka Declaration”),
which states that she is the attorney for the Moving Party, is “personally
familiar with the facts” therein and could and would testify thereto, and which
adequately authenticates the e-mails. (Matooka Decl. p. 1.) 
 
The Opposing Party further objects to each of the e-mails on the grounds
that each is inadmissible hearsay. “Hearsay may be briefly understood as
an out-of-court statement offered for the truth of its content.” (People v.
Sanchez, supra at 674.) “Documents like letters, reports, and
memoranda are often hearsay because they are prepared by a person
outside the courtroom and are usually offered to prove the truth of the
information they contain.” (Ibid.) Here, we may not and do not consider
the e-mails for the truth of any information therein, though we may take note
of their existence.
 
            Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must
plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4)
resulting damages to the plaintiff.”¿ (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98, internal citation omitted.)
 
The Moving Party has pled and proved the existence of the terms of the
Lease by submitting the Lease and the Lease Amendment as evidence. Other than
evidentiary objections, which we overrule, the Opposing Party does not
challenge these. The Moving Party has pled its own performance under the Lease
in the Motion, and the Opposing Party does not challenge this pleading. The
Moving Party pleads and proves the Opposing Party’s breach by submitting the
Matooka Declaration, which the Opposing Party does not challenge. The Moving
Party further pleads and proves damages by submitting the Chen Declaration and
the Matooka Declaration. 
 
Thus, the Moving Party meets its “burden of persuasion” “to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact.” The
burden thus shifts to the Opposing Party, who submits no evidence contradicting
the Moving Party’s evidence or pleadings.
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly,
this court GRANTS the Motion.
 
 
Dated:             March
5, 2024                                     _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court