 Case Number:  24SMCV01797    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



LANCASTER
  VILLAS, LLC, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CENTINELA OCEAN VIEW HOMEOWNERS
  ASSOCIATION, INC., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24SMCV01797
 
  Hearing Date:  August 15, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  defendant’S motion to strike 
  PUNITIVE DAMAGES CLAIM
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This is a trespass and quiet title case.  Plaintiffs Lancaster Villas LLC, Hypericum
Interests, LLC and DNN Palmdale Land Co. own the real property located at 3472
S. Centinela Avenue, Los Angeles, California (“Plaintiffs’ Property”).  (Compl. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
Plaintiffs intend to develop a mixed use building with 32 residential
units.  (Id. ¶3.)  Defendant
Centinela Ocean View Homeowners Association, Inc. owns the property adjoining
Plaintiffs’ Property, located at 3460 S. Centinela, Los Angeles, California
(“Defendant’s Property”).  (Id. ¶8.)
Plaintiffs allege that there is a retaining wall
on Defendant’s Property that is encroaching on their Property by 16 to 17
inches.  (Id. ¶6.)  Plaintiffs
obtained a structural engineering assessment which indicated the retaining wall
was a “failed wall” and any demolition on Plaintiffs’ Property would cause the
wall to topple.  (Id. ¶5.)  Defendant
would not agree to fix the wall until Plaintiffs notified the Los Angeles
Department of Building & Safety (“LDBS”) which upon inspection, issued a
notice of code violation and instructed Defendant to repair the wall.  (Id. ¶¶ 8-10.) 

Only then did Defendant indicate a
willingness to repair the wall.  (Id.
¶11.)  But Defendant later told Plaintiffs it did
not have funds to proceed.   (Id. ¶12.)  Still later, Defendant said it would replace
the wall on October 1, 2023, using Plaintiffs’ contractor, but then the very
next day, Defendant retracted and said it would use their own contractor.  (Id.
¶¶ 13-14.)  
LDBS
told Plaintiffs Defendant was working on a soils report and engineering.  (Id.
¶16.)  Defendant filed for a
permit with the LDBS on January 18, 2024, but no action after that day was
performed.  (Id. ¶17.) 

On
these facts, Plaintiffs allege two claims for (1) trespass and (2) quiet
title.  Plaintiffs seek compensatory and
punitive damages, as well as a judgment quieting Plaintiffs’ title to that
portion of Plaintiffs’ Property on which Defendant’s wall allegedly encroaches.  
This hearing is on Defendant’s motion to
strike Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged malice,
oppression or fraud to support a claim for punitive damages.  
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5 requires that before
the filing of a motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc.
§435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving
party shall file and serve a declaration detailing its meet and confer efforts.
 (Code Civ. Proc. §435.5(a)(3).)  Defendant submits the Declaration of Anthony
Castillo-Mendoza which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone on June
25, 2024, at least five days before Defendant filed its motion to strike on
July 5, 2024.  This satisfies the meet
and confer requirements of §435.5.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, upon motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is
a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a
complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive
damages.  Defendant argues Plaintiffs have
only made conclusory allegations that they are entitled to punitive damages
without stating facts supporting a finding of malice, oppression or fraud.  The Court agrees.   
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.”  (Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (citations omitted).)  
Allegations that merely plead the statutory phraseology are
wholly insufficient to state a basis for recovery of punitive damages.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.) 
Conclusory characterizations of defendant’s conduct as willful,
intentional or fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of the necessary
factual grounds for punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)    
Cal. Civ. Code section 3294 provides the basis upon which
punitive damages can be recovered. 
Punitive damages may only be sought where there is clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud:
(c)(1)   “Malice”
means conduct which is intended to cause injury to the plaintiff or                       despicable conduct
which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and                       conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.
(c)(2)   “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust                        hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights.
(c)(3)   “Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a                      material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the                                                      defendant
of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise
causing injury. 
(Civ.
Code §3294.)
Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to increase
the burden of proof required in order to allege a punitive damages claim as
well as to raise the level of misconduct necessary for an award of punitive
damages.  The California Supreme Court
has ruled that the insertion of the word “despicable” in section 3294 created a
“new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “Despicable” means conduct
that is “so vile, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.) 
“Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage
frequently associated with [a] crime.”  (Id.)
Punitive damages are disfavored by public policy and are allowed
only under the most extreme circumstances and in the “clearest of cases.”  (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141
Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 9.)  “To contain the
generosity and emotionality of juries, appellate courts have set the threshold
high in defining situations in which punitive damages can be given.  Conduct which may be characterized as
unreasonable, negligent, grossly negligent or reckless does not satisfy the
highly culpable state of mind warranting punitive damages.  Conduct which warrants punitive damages must
be of such severity or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as
accorded willful misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause
harm.”  (Id. at 10 (internal
quotations and citations omitted).) 
Here, the factual allegations in the Complaint
do not support a finding of malice, oppression or fraud.  Paragraph 23 of the Complaint states: “Plaintiffs
are informed and believes and thereon alleges that Defendants knew that they
were using, taking, and occupying property not part of the Centinela Property,
without Plaintiffs’ consent, the rightful owner of the Lancaster Property, when
the trespass first began. However, even if Defendants’ initial occupancy of the
Lancaster Property was merely negligent, Defendants’ continued occupancy of the
portion of the Lancaster Property after being apprised of the trespass was
willful, oppressive, malicious and with conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’
rights.”
There are no facts
to support an allegation that Defendant intended to injure Plaintiffs.  A conclusory allegation of an intent to
injure is insufficient.  Absent a
specific intent to injure Plaintiff, both malice and oppression require
despicable conduct.  (College Hospital
v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, 725.)  Defendant’s continued occupancy after they
were apprised of the trespass and its foot-dragging in repairing the wall is
not despicable conduct. 
The
Complaint alleges that in late 2022, the LDBS tagged the wall and told Defendant
to repair it. (Compl. ¶10.)  In April
2023, Defendant indicated a willingness to comply with Plaintiffs’ requests to
move the wall back, but indicated thereafter, that Defendant did not have the
funds to proceed.  (Id. ¶¶11-12.)  Rather than use Plaintiffs’ contractor, in
August 2023 Defendant indicated it would retain its own contractor to perform
the work.  (Id. ¶ 14.)  Finally, in December 2023, LDBS informed
Plaintiffs that Defendant was obtaining a soils report, and in January 2024,
Defendants filed for a permit. (Id. ¶¶ 16-17.) 
These factual allegations do not rise to the level of “despicable
conduct.”  At most, it shows an association
that is actively attempting to correct the problem, despite potentially having
insufficient funds to fix the wall.  
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to strike without leave to amend. 

 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: August 15, 2024                                                    ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court