  Case Number:  24VECV01761    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



KIA HOGHOUGHI, by and through his
  Successor in Interest Melissa Seyed; and MELISSA SEYED, Individually, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SUNSHINE SOBER LIVING SUPPORT SYSTEM, INC. dba SUNSHINE SOBER LIVING;
  RICHARD GOLDBERG; WENDY GOLDBERG; WARNER PARK RECOVERY CENTER, LLC dba WARNER
  PARK RECOVERY CENTER; RICHARD SANDOR, M.D.; AND DOES 1 THROUGH 100, INCLUSIVE,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)))))))))


     CASE NO.: 24VECV01761
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING WITH LEAVE TO AMEND DEFENDANT RICHARD SANDOR, M.D.’S DEMURRER AND DENYING
  HIS MOTION TO STRIKE
 
ORDER
  GRANTING IN PART DEFENDANT WARNER PARK RECOVERY CENTER, LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE
  WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 



 
 
 
I.        INTRODUCTION
This action
arises out of an allegedly wrongful death. Plaintiff Melissa Seyed, successor
in interest of Kia Hoghoughi (“Hoghoughi”)(collectively, “Plaintiffs”), alleges
both in her representative and individual capacity that Defendants Sunshine
Sober Living Support System, Inc. dba Sunshine Sober Living (“Sunshine”),
Richard Goldberg (“Richard”), Wendy Goldberg (“Wendy”), Warner Park Recovery
Center, LLC dba Warner Park Recovery Center (“Warner Park”), and Richard
Sandor, M.D. (“Sandor”)(collectively, “Defendants”) caused or contributed to Hoghoughi’s
death by fentanyl overdose. Plaintiffs allege Hoghoughi was admitted into the
care and custody of Defendants on November 28, 2022, but that he overdosed on
January 18, 2023. 
Sandor now
demurrers to Plaintiffs’ second, third, and fourth causes of action. Sandor
also seeks to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations. 
Warner Park
also seeks to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint.     
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On April 16,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Fraud; (3) Unlawful Business Practices; (4) Dependent Adult Neglect; (5)
Negligence; and (6) Wrongful Death. 
On October
31, 2024, Warner Park filed the instant Motion to Strike (“Warner Park
Motion”).
On November
6, 2024, Sandor filed the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike (“Sandor
Motion”).
On December
20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to Warner Park’s Motion (“Opposition
Warner Park Motion”). 
On December
20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to Sandor’s Demurrer (“Opposition
Demurrer”) and Motion (“Opposition Sandor Motion”). 
On December
27, 2024, Warner Park filed its Reply. 
On December
30, 2024, Sandor filed his Replies. 
III.     SANDOR’S
DEMURRER
A.       Legal Standard.
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading (complaint,
answer or cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see
Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v.
California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007
(citation omitted); see also Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed
to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally
construed. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)  
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (See
Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court
to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso
v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862
[disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos.
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court
record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
B.      Sandor Did Not Properly Meet and Confer.
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a),
emphasis added.) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the
results of the meet and confer process. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
Sandor’s
counsel filed a declaration attesting to her meet and confer efforts, which
consisted of one email to Plaintiffs’ counsel. (See Declaration of Julia
Murray filed November 6, 2024 (“Murray Decl.”), ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Sandor’s counsel
declares Plaintiffs’ counsel did not reply. (See Murray Decl., ¶ 2.) The
Court does not find Sandor has satisfied his meet and confer obligations. The
Code of Civil Procedure specifically requires in person, telephonic, or video
conference communications. E-mail is insufficient. The Court will rule on
Sandor’s Demurrer and Motion in the interest of judicial efficiency but all
parties’ counsel are warned the Court is unlikely to do so in the future should
they failure to meet and confer as required prior to any future filings.                     
C.      Analysis.
1.              
Plaintiffs Fail to State Sufficient Facts to
State a Fraud Cause of Action Against Sandor.
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s
reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45 Cal. 4th 1244,
1255.) 
“[F]raud
must be specifically pleaded. This means: (1) general pleading of the legal
conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the
policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.” (Wilhelm v.
Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) In
addition, a cause of action of fraud against a corporation requires a plaintiff
to allege the names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when. (See Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157-58.) 
Sandor
argues Plaintiffs fail to allege Sandor made any representations and thus has
not pleaded fraud with the requisite specificity. (See Demurrer, pg.
5.)  
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue they allege Warner Park advertised Sandor’s care
as part of its advertising pitch, with the cooperation of Sandor, and that
Defendants, including Sandor, “misrepresented to Plaintiffs that Warner Park
Recovery Center was a licensed medical facility.” (Opposition Demurrer, pp.
4-5.) Plaintiffs argue this is enough to allege fraud. (See id.)
The
Court disagrees with Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs’ Opposition notably fails to address
Sandor’s argument in Demurrer—that Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not allege Sandor
made any representations himself. General allegations of a scheme to
defraud by the Defendants as a collective, as Plaintiffs have elected to make
here, are not enough to meet fraud’s specificity requirement. 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Sandor’s Demurrer as to Plaintiffs’
second cause of action for fraud.
2.              
Plaintiffs Fail to State Sufficient Facts to
State an Unlawful Business Practices Cause of Action Against Sandor. 
Unfair competition is defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”¿(Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17200.) By proscribing “any unlawful” business act
or practice, the unfair competition law (“UCL”) “borrows” rules set out in other laws and makes violations
of those rules independently actionable.¿(See Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57
Cal.4th 364, 370.)¿A “violation of
another law is a predicate for stating a cause of action under the UCL’s unlawful prong.”¿(Berryman v. Merit Property Management, Inc.
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) 
Sandor argues none of Plaintiffs’ allegations
allege Sandor committed any acts and, in any event, Business & Professions Code § 17200 does not apply to medical care. (See Demurrer,
pp. 6-7.) 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue “Sandor was an
integral part of the scheme set up to drive up profits by misleading potential
residents. This misleading conduct, as alleged, is the exactly the sort of
conduct prohibited by the Unfair Business Practices Act.” (Opposition Demurrer,
pg. 6.)
The Court agrees with Sandor. Plaintiffs have
failed to state sufficient facts to support an unlawful business practices cause
of action against him. Plaintiffs do not allege any actual acts done by Sandor
that could constitute a “business practice” of Sandor’s, instead focusing their
third cause of action exclusively on the actions of businesses Warner Park and
Sunshine. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 84 (“[Warner Park] and
[Sunshine] knew or should have known that their misrepresentations as to those
services were untrue or misleading.”).) As currently alleged, Sandor is merely “affiliated
with and providing care for the clients of” Warner Park but is not holding
himself out to be a representative of Warner Park such that he could be liable
for Warner Park’s allegedly unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices.
(Complaint, ¶ 7.) General agency allegations such as these are insufficient to support
a claim Sandor engaged in “business practices” as required by the law.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND Sandor’s Demurrer as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for unlawful
business practices.
3.              
Plaintiffs Fail to State Sufficient Facts to
State a Dependent Adult Neglect Cause of Action Against Sandor. 
To state
a cause of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect, a plaintiff must
allege “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other
treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering.” (Elder
Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protections Act (“Act”), Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15610.07, (a)(1).) A plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant
had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,
such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) that the defendant
knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs; (3) that the defendant denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either
(a) with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or (b)
with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the
plaintiff alleges recklessness); and (4) that the defendant’s neglect caused
the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.
(See Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 407.) 
A
“substantial caretaking or custodial role” must be alleged. (Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 158 (“…it is the defendant's
relationship with an elder or a dependent adult—not the defendant's
professional standing or expertise—that makes the defendant potentially liable
for neglect.”).) Whether a relationship gives rise to a custodial role is
determined on a case-by-case basis. (See Oroville Hospital v. Superior Court
(2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 382, 405.) Admittance to an acute care facility is
sufficient to make [a plaintiff] a “dependent adult” who would be entitled to
the [Act's] protections. (See Stewart v. Superior Court (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 87, 102 (citing § 15610.23(b) and Health & Saf. Code § 1250(a)).)
The Act still requires, however, “a separate analysis to determine whether such
a [custodial] relationship exists.” (Winn, 63 Cal.4th at 164.) 
Furthermore,
to constitute abuse and neglect within the meaning of the Act, a plaintiff
“must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of
something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with recklessness referring “to a subjective
state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described
as a “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of probability” that an injury
will occur,” and “[o]ppression, fraud and malice [involving] intentional or
conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin v.
Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, quotation marks omitted.)¿ 
Sandor
argues “there are no specific allegations against [him] and how his actions or
inactions meet the threshold requirements of this statute, instead he again
appears to be lumped in with the multiple defendants.” (Demurrer, pg. 8.)
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue “Defendant Sandor is not simply lumped in with the
other defendants in this action. Rather, Defendant Sandor is the key figure
responsible for the neglect.” (Opposition Demurrer, pg. 8.) 
 Plaintiffs have once again failed to state
sufficient facts to support a cause of action – this time for dependent abuse
against Sandor. As Sandor argues, there are no specific allegations against any
of the Defendants and therefore no allegations that Sandor in particular had a
custodial relationship with Hoghoughi or that he acted recklessly,
oppressively, fraudulently, or maliciously as required by the law. Plaintiff’s
most pointed allegation against Sandor merely states the following: “On the day
that Mr. Hoghoughi died, he had not seen his psychiatrist Defendant RICHARD
SANDOR, M.D. for 20 days, and he had not received any clinical treatment for 5
days. Mr. Hoghoughi’s treatment plan had not been updated since December 5,
2022, 44 days before he died, despite his significant symptoms of high risk for
relapse.” (Complaint, ¶ 30.) Without more, this allegation merely sounds in
negligence and does not rise to the level of dependent abuse. 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Sandor’s Demurrer as to Plaintiffs’
fourth cause of action for dependent adult neglect.
Based on
the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Sandor’s Demurrer as to
Plaintiffs’ second, third, and fourth causes of action.
///
IV.     MOTIONS TO STRIKE
          A.       Legal
Standard
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).)
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (See id. at § 436.) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (See id. at § 437.)
B.      The
Court Denies Both Sandor’s and Warner Park’s Motions.
1.        Sandor’s
Motion.
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a
proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
3294(a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person
or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the
rights or safety of others. (See Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights. (See id.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (See id.)
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to
support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (See
Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) 
“In any
action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care
provider, no claim for punitive damages¿shall be
included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order
allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be
filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive
damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis
of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has
established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim pursuant to¿Section 3294
of the Civil Code.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a).) 
Sandor seeks to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive
damages allegations, Paragraph 106, p, 20 lines 23-25 and Paragraph 4 of the
Complaint in the Prayer for Damages. (See Sandor Motion, pg. 2.) Sandor
argues the instant action is, at its core, one for medical malpractice and
Plaintiffs must obtain the Court’s permission to include punitive damages
allegations pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 425.13. (See Sandor
Motion, pg. 5.) 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs appear to argue their punitive damages allegations are
based not “in professional negligence” but that it “arises out of violations of
the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act.” (Opposition Sandor
Motion, pg. 4.) Plaintiffs argue they can therefore plead punitive damages
without first obtaining this Court’s permission. (See id.) 
In light
of the Court’s decision to sustain Sandor’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s Elder
Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act claim, the Court denies as moot Sandor’s
Motion as it relates to Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations in that cause
of action. In addition, the Court is unaware of any authority, nor does Sandor
cite any, to support his proposition that wrongful death claims cannot include
punitive damages claims as a matter of law. 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Sandor’s Motion.
///
///
///
2.       Warner
Park’s Motion Is Granted In Part.
a.       Judicial
Notice Is Inappropriate
Warner Park requests the Court take judicial
notice of (1) Warner Park’s August 12, 2024 Statement of Information found on
the California Secretary of State’s website; (2) California Department of
Health Care Services’ (“DHCS”) Certification for Alcohol and Other Drug
Programs 1.0 found on DHCS’ website; (3) DHCS’ Initial Treatment Provider
Application (Form DHCS 6002) found on DHCS’ website; and (4) DHCS Behavioral
Health Information Notice No. 24-001 found on DHCS’ website. (See Request
for Judicial Notice (“RJN”), referencing the Declaration of Michael Newborn
filed October 31, 2024 (“Newborn Decl.”), ¶¶ 3-6, Exs. A-D.) 
          The Court DENIES Warner Park’s RJN in
its entirety. The Court DENIES Warner Park’s RJN of No. 1, above, as materials
prepared by private parties that are on file with governmental agencies, such
as the Secretary of State, are not official records of which judicial notice
may be taken. (People v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598-599; Stevens
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 608.) The Court also DENIES
Warner Park’s RJN of Nos. 2-4, above, as judicial notice of Internet pages of
even official entities may be improper absent evidentiary foundation showing
the following elements: 1) Author, 2) date of creation, 3) purpose, 4)
reliability, and 5) veracity. (See Hartwell Corp. v. Superior Court (2002)
27 Cal.4th 256, 279, fn. 12; see also, e.g., Zumbrun Law Firm v. Cal.
Legis. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1603, 1623 (“The website [of the California
Legislature, www.leginfo.ca.gov ] is not the official, printed
Government Code, and makes no promises regarding its accuracy.”)
b.       Warner
Park’s Motion. 
Warner Park seeks to strike Plaintiffs’ alter ego,
agency, partnership, and joint venture allegations (paragraphs 12 (page 3,
lines 21-25), 58 (in its entirety), 60 (page 12, lines 19-21), 61 (page 12,
lines 23-26), 50 (page 10, lines 24-26), 90 (page 18, lines 19-20)) and
unlawful business practices allegations (paragraphs 82, 84, and 85 (page 16,
lines 24-27 and page 17, lines 5-8)). (See Warner Park Motion.)
Warner Park first argues Plaintiffs fail to plead
the requisite elements of an alter ego theory because Plaintiffs fail to plead Defendants
shared a unity of ownership or interest or that there would be an inequitable
result if an alter ego relationship was not found. (See Warner Park
Motion, pp. 5-8.) Warner Park next argues Plaintiffs fail to plead
an agency or employment theory of liability because Plaintiffs “failed to plead
which party is the principal and which is the agent, which is the employer and
which is the employee, who controlled whom, or the nature of any agreement that
existed between any of the parties.” (Id. at pg. 9.) Warner Park also
argues Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged the existence of a partnership
or joint venture agreement. (See id. at pp. 9-10.) 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue “[t]he operation of a joint scheme lure in
patients, along with misrepresentations and an insurance fraud scheme, gives
rise to the existence of some sort of relationship between the various
defendants. The specific nature of this relationship is known only to
Defendants. The type of relationship between the various defendants and the
nature of those relationship will be teased out in discovery.” (Opposition
Warner Park Motion, pg. 4.) 
The
Court finds Plaintiffs’ allegations of an alter ego, agency, partnership, or
joint venture relationship between the parties insufficiently overbroad at the
pleading stage. The Court concedes the Court of Appeal has acknowledged “[c]omplaints
in actions against multiple defendants commonly include conclusory allegations
that all of the defendants were each other's agents or employees and were
acting within the scope of their agency or employment. Prominent treatises,
while recognizing that the Supreme Court has described such allegations as ‘egregious
examples of generic boilerplate’ still advise that ‘such allegations may be
necessary,’ especially ‘at the outset of a lawsuit, before discovery.’” (Barsegian
v. Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 446, 451 (citations
omitted).) Nevertheless, Plaintiffs’ approach falls too far short of the mark
to survive Warner Park’s Motion as to the alter ego allegations.[2]

Two
general requirements must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked:
(1) there must be such unity of interest and ownership that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist,
and (2) the result will be inequitable if the acts are treated as those of the
corporation alone. (See Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) “The essence of the alter ego doctrine is not that the
individual shareholder becomes the corporation, but that the individual
shareholder is liable for the actions of the corporation. [Citation] For all
other purposes, the separate corporate existence remains [citation].” (See
Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) 
Plaintiffs
do not properly plead an alter ego theory of liability. To do so, Plaintiffs
must allege an individual, group of individuals, or a corporation is using
another corporation to “to perpetrate fraud, circumvent a statute, or
accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose” such that it is
appropriate for the Court to “treat the corporation's acts as if they were done
by the persons actually controlling the corporation.”(Robbins v. Blecher
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 886, 892.) Individuals cannot be alter egos of each
other. And to the extent Warner Park, Sunshine, or any of the individual
Defendants are controlling the actions of either Warner Park or Sunshine such
that piercing the corporate veil is appropriate, Plaintiffs must make clear who
is doing what and how. Plaintiffs may not merely allege conclusory alter ego
allegations against all Defendants as a group, as they have here, and expect to
sort it all out later. 
On the
other hand, the Court is not persuaded by Warner Park’s argument that
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for unlawful business practices misstates the
law. Warner Park argues it is authorized to “to treat mental health disorders
co-occurring with addiction, as reflected in, among other things, DCHS’
Certification Standards, the DHCS’ Initial Treatment Application for
certification and licensure, and DHCS’ Behavioral Health Information Notices.”
(Warner Park Motion, pg. 12, citing Newborn Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Exs. B-D.) Because
“[t]he sole allegation against [Warner Park] in Plaintiffs’ Unlawful Business
Practices cause of action is that Warner Park Recovery falsely advertised its
ability to provide mental health treatment without the necessary licensing[,]”
Plaintiffs cannot maintain their third cause of action against Warner Park as a
matter of law. (Warner Park Motion, pg. 12.) 
To
support its argument, Warner Park relies on both the materials it has requested
this Court judicially notice (which this Court found were not appropriate for
judicial notice) and other outside information, such as “DHCS Best Practice
Guide section 3.1.3”. (See Warner Park Motion, pp. 10-13.) But such
extrinsic evidence is improper on a motion to strike. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 437 (“(a) The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.”).) Warner Park is attempting to turn a motion to strike
into a motion for summary judgment. The Court declines to make such a leap at
the pleading stage.  
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Warner Park’s Motion WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiffs’ alter
ego, agency, partnership, and joint venture allegations
in paragraphs 12 (page 3, lines 21-25), 58 (in its entirety), 60 (page 12,
lines 19-21), 61 (page 12, lines 23-26), 50 (page 10, lines 24-26), and 90
(page 18, lines 19-20). However, the Court DENIES Warner Park’s Motion as to Plaintiffs’
unlawful business practices allegations.
V.    
CONCLUSION
Based on
the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Sandor’s Demurrer as to
Plaintiffs’ second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
However,
the Court DENIES Sandor’s Motion to Strike. 
In
addition, the Court GRANTS Warner Park’s Motion WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiffs’
alter ego, agency, partnership, and joint venture
allegations in paragraphs 12 (page 3, lines 21-25), 58 (in its entirety), 60
(page 12, lines 19-21), 61 (page 12, lines 23-26), 50 (page 10, lines 24-26), and
90 (page 18, lines 19-20). However, the Court DENIES Warner Park’s Motion as to
Plaintiffs’ unlawful business practices allegations.
Plaintiffs shall file their amended complaint on
or before January 31, 2025.  
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED: January 6, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


