..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV06078
Plaintiff's Name: Judi Oestreicher
Defendant's Name: Sandro Hernandez Cruz, Apolinar Vasquez Morales, Michael's Pizza
People-Names: Judi Oestreicher, Sandro Hernandez Cruz, Apolinar Vasquez Morales, Mohammed Pavind
Company-Names: Michael's Pizza
Places: Agoura Hills City Mall, Agoura Hills, California
Dates: November 4, 2020, February 17, 2022, April 18, 2022, May 5, 2022, July 28, 2022, April 28, 2023, May 2, 2023, October 4, 2023, December 4, 2023, February 5, 2024
Events: Car accident, filing of complaint, amendment of complaint, filing of answers, motion for summary judgment, stipulation
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The Judge intends to grant Michael's Pizza's motion for summary judgment
Facts: Vasquez was backing out of a parking spot at the Agoura Hills City Mall when he collided with the plaintiff's vehicle. Vasquez was a cook at Michael's Pizza and was not required to perform any work duties outside of the restaurant. He was not using his vehicle for work-related purposes at the time of the accident.
Disputes: The dispute is whether Vasquez was acting in the course and scope of his employment at the time of the accident
Acts: Vasquez backed out of a parking spot and collided with the plaintiff's vehicle
Agreements: The plaintiff stipulates that the court may grant Michael's Pizza's motion for summary judgment
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code, Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001), LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023)
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 437c, subd. (b)(1), (b)(3), (d)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: "The party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law." (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has considered the moving papers and rules as follows. The plaintiff, Judi Oestreicher, sued defendants Sandro Hernandez Cruz, Apolinar Vasquez Morales, and Michael's Pizza for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. Michael's Pizza filed a motion for summary judgment, which the plaintiff stipulated could be granted.

The judge found that Vasquez was a cook at Michael's Pizza and was not required to perform any work duties outside of the restaurant. He was not using his vehicle for work-related purposes at the time of the accident. The judge also found that the plaintiff did not possess or could not reasonably obtain evidence to establish that Vasquez was acting in the course and scope of his employment at the time of the accident.

As a result, the judge granted Michael's Pizza's motion for summary judgment, dismissing the plaintiff's claims against the company.
