 Case Number:  22STCV07089    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 25, 2022, Plaintiff Barry Henderson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Vincent James Stone, EAN Holdings, LLC, EAN Services, LLC,
Enterprise Holdings, Inc., and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
August 25, 2023, the Court dismissed the action without prejudice. 
On
September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate dismissal to be heard on
December 4, 2023.  No opposition has been
filed. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court vacate the dismissal. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b),
provides in part: 
“Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the
time within which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section
583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff’s
counsel has submitted a declaration stating that counsel did not appear at the
final status conference or trial because counsel incorrectly calendared the
dates.  The motion is timely. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Barry Henderson’s motion to vacate the September 25, 2023
order dismissing the case. 
The
Court sets a Trial Setting Conference on December 26, 2023 at 08:30 AM in
Department 28 at Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.