 Case Number:  22STCV06078    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
February 17, 2022, Plaintiff Judi Oestreicher (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Sandro Hernandez Cruz (“Cruz”), Apolinar Vasquez Morales (“Vasquez”),
and Does 1-30 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
April 18, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Michael’s
Pizza (“Michael’s Pizza”) as Doe 1. 
On
May 5, 2022, Cruz and Vasquez filed an answer. On July 28, 2022, Michael’s Pizza
filed an answer. 
On
April 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint adding a cause of
action for general negligence – negligence per se. 
On
May 2, 2023, Michael’s Pizza filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on
December 4, 2023. 
On
October 4, 2023, Plaintiff and Michael’s Pizza submitted a stipulation stating
that (1) Plaintiff does not oppose the motion for summary judgment and (2) the
Court may grant the motion and dismiss Plaintiff’s claims against Michael’s
Pizza. 
Trial
is scheduled for February 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Michael’s
Pizza requests that the Court grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
stipulates that the Court may grant the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
850.)  
          When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The
defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of
the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id.
at p. 854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant
must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at
p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.” 
(Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas), quoting Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment]; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication “shall proceed in
all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].) The party opposing
the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that
those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and
concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends are
disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all of the
evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on November 4, 2020, Vasquez was backing out of a
parking spot at the Agoura Hills City Mall in Agoura Hills, California, and
collided with the front of Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Plaintiff allegedly suffered serious bodily
injuries and property damage. 
          B.   Undisputed
facts 
Vasquez
worked for Michael’s Pizza as a cook. The owner and proprietor of Michael’s
Pizza, and Vasquez’s employer, was Mohammed Pavind.  Vasquez was not required to perform, and did
not have, work duties outside of Michael’s Pizza.  His duties did
not require him to use his vehicle, or any vehicle, to make deliveries, to transport
fellow employees, or perform any other task besides those of a cook in the
course and scope of his work. Other
employees of Michael’s Pizza were required to make deliveries, but not Vasquez.
Neither the owner nor any of the employees of
Michael’s Pizza ever asked Vasquez to run a Michael’s Pizza errand, including
to pick anything up, to transport patrons, or to get ingredients for the
restaurant. 
On
November 4, 2020, Vasquez’s work shift was scheduled to start at 11:00 a.m.
 He had
driven from his home to Michael’s Pizza with no stops along the way, and did
not speak with owner Mohammed Pavind on his way to work. 
At
approximately 10:50-10:55 a.m., Vasquez was operating his 2003 GMC Yukon
vehicle at the Agoura Hills City Mall, 5835-5915 Kanan Road, Agoura Hills, CA,
in a parking space of the shopping center’s parking lot outside the premises of
Michael’s Pizza, when his vehicle came into contact while backing up, against a
vehicle operated by Plaintiff.  Vasquez
did not have any Michael’s Pizza business property or food delivery items from
Michael’s Pizza in his car.  He was not using his cell phone at the time of the
collision. 
At
the time of the incident, Vasquez did not have a valid California driver’s
license in his possession. 
After
the collision, Vasquez told Mohammed Pavind that he would be late for work. 
Mohammed
Payind did not discuss, personally or by phone, the business of Michael’s Pizza
with defendant Vasquez when he was not at work at Michael’s Pizza. No employee of Michael’s Pizza ever discussed,
personally or by phone, the business of Michael’s Pizza with Vasquez when he
was not at work at Michael’s Pizza. 
Michael’s
Pizza denies that Vasquez was acting in the course and scope of his employment
at the time of the collision. 
On
November 4, 2020, Plaintiff admitted by sworn testimony that she could not see
inside the car driven by Vasquez at the time of the incident and could not
recall seeing Vasquez carrying anything at the time of the incident. 
C.   Motion 
Michael’s
Pizza argues it cannot be vicariously liable to Plaintiff because Vasquez was
not acting in the course and scope of his employment for Michael’s Pizza at the
time of the accident. 
Michael’s
Pizza has carried its initial burden on summary judgment.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
has stipulated that the Court may grant Michael’s Pizza’s motion for summary
judgment.  Therefore, Plaintiff has not raised
a triable issue of fact. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment filed
by Defendant Michael’s Pizza. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling with the Court within five days.