 Case Number:  23STCV10806    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
May 12, 2023, Plaintiff Noah Fisher (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Ariel Gershkovich (“Gershkovich”), Yaskov Yagukayev (“Yagukayev”), Cesar
Velasquez (“Velasquez”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles Police
Department (“Police Department”), Techiia Motorsports, Inc. (“Techiia”), Turo,
Inc. (“Turo”), and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
November 2, 2023, Turo filed a demurrer to be heard on December 4, 2023.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is scheduled for November 8, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Turo
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer without leave to amend. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * * 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f)  The
pleading is uncertain.  As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or
by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground for
objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about September 4, 2022, Plaintiff was driving westbound on Fifth Street
through the intersection of Flower Street in the County of Los Angeles when he
was involved in an accident caused by Gershkovich, Yagudayev, and Velasquez,
who were negligently operating their vehicles. 
Velasquez
was driving under the course and scope of his employment with City and Police
Department when the accident occurred. 
Gershkovich
and Yagudayev rented the vehicle involved in the accidents from Techiia through
Turo’s application/software/program.  Techiia
and Turo negligently rented the vehicle involved in the accident to Gershkovich
and Yagudayev. 
As a
result of Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff sustained injuries and damages,
including personal injury damages and property damage.  Defendants’ negligence was a substantial cause
of Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. 
B.   The demurrer 
Turo
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer because the complaint is so uncertain that
Turo cannot reasonably respond.  Aside
from alleging that one of the vehicles
involved in the accident was rented through Turo’s application/software/program,”
the complaint does not mention Turo.  Therefore,
Turo argues, the complaint against it is incomprehensible. 
C.   Analysis 
The
complaint alleges that (1) Gershkovich
and Yagudayev rented the vehicle involved in the accidents from Techiia through
Turo’s application/software/program and (2) Techiia and Turo negligently rented
the vehicle involved in the accident to Gershkovich and Yagudayev.  These allegations give Turo enough
information to file an answer or other responsive pleading. 
The
Court overrules the demurrer. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendant Turo, Inc. 
Defendant
Turo, Inc. is ordered to file an answer within 10 days of the hearing on the
demurrer.      
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 