  Case Number:  18STCV01564    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  STEPHEN HARRIS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JACK SWANK, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 18STCV01564  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S EXPERTS’ DEPOSITIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 18, 2023  I. Background On October 19, 2018, Plaintiff Stephen Harris (“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendant Jack Swank (“Decedent”), in his individual capacity, for damages arising from an automobile accident. On October 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Creditor’s Claim, and after rejection, Plaintiff brought a motion to substitute Judith Lorraine Swank (“Swank” or “Defendant”) as the personal representative of Decedent. On August 29, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to substitute. Accordingly, it was ordered that Swank be substituted as a party defendant in place of Decedent; Plaintiff was ordered to serve Swank with an amended complaint within 20 days of the ruling. (Min. Order Aug. 29, 2023.) ¿  On May 25, 2023, Decedent filed the instant motion to compel the depositions of Plaintiffs’ experts. In opposition, Plaintiff’s only argument is that the motion was filed on behalf of Decedent at the time, and therefore defense counsel lacks authority to notice or take depositions in this case. In reply, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely and should not be considered, and that the Court at a recent informal discovery conference (“IDC”) ordered Plaintiff to make Plaintiff’s experts immediately available. Furthermore, Defendant argues that Plaintiff still has not served the Administrator of the Estate with the Complaint as ordered.  II. Procedural  Preliminary, the Court will address a couple issues raised by the parties. In terms of an untimely opposition, Defendant identifies no prejudice suffered in receiving Plaintiff’s opposition through email at 12:01 a.m. as opposed to receiving the opposition at 11:59 p.m. on the due date. Therefore, the Court, in its discretion, will still consider Plaintiff’s opposition.  As to Plaintiff’s sole contention that Defendant lacks authority to bring the instant motion, Plaintiff conclusory cites to Code Civ. Proc. § 367, which provides, “Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute.” At the time the action commenced, Decedent was a real party in interest, and Decedent passed after the filing of the action. The Court is guided by Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30, which provides, “A cause of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.)  Accordingly, although the motion was brought on behalf of Decedent at the time, Decedent has since been substituted by Defendant Swank as Decedent’s personal representative. Plaintiff provides no authority supporting his contention that the motion is now improper, or that the Court may not consider the motion when Swank has since stepped into the place of Decedent.  Lastly, the Court will not consider Defendant’s argument, raised for the first time, that Plaintiff still has not served the amended complaint on Swank because the purpose of a reply brief is not to raise new issues. Regardless, Plaintiff was ordered to serve Swank with an amended complaint within 20 days of the ruling. (Min. Order, Aug. 29, 2023.) The due date is the day of the hearing on the instant motion, on September 18, 2023. Therefore, the time had yet to expire for Defendant to properly set forth this argument.   III. Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff’s Experts On receipt of an expert witness list from a party, any other party may take the deposition of any person on the list.  Except as otherwise provided, the procedures for taking oral and written depositions apply to a deposition of a listed trial expert witness.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.410.)  The service of a proper deposition notice accompanied by the tender of the expert witness fee is effective to require the party employing or retaining the expert to produce the expert for the deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.460, subd. (a).)  If the party noticing the deposition fails to tender the expert’s fee under Section 2034.430, the expert shall not be deposed at that time unless the parties stipulate otherwise.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.460, subd. (b).) “The deposition of any expert . . . shall be taken at a place that is within 75 miles of the courthouse where the action is pending.  On motion for a protective order by the party designating an expert witness, and on a showing of exceptional hardship, the court may order that the deposition be taken at a more distant place from the courthouse.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.420.) Defendant argues the depositions of Plaintiff’s experts Steven Dunbar, D.C. and Babak Samimi, M.D. were properly noticed, and that Plaintiff failed to produce these experts. Defense counsel avers that Plaintiff’s counsel objected on the grounds of unavailability, but did not provide available dates. Defense counsel also argues they attempted to contact Plaintiff’s counsel, who refuses to communicate about the issue, and also objected on the grounds that Decedent is deceased and therefore not a proper party.  However, it is not clear whether Defendant properly noticed Steven Dunbar, D.C.’s and Babak Samimi, M.D.’s depositions. Defense counsel’s declaration refers to six exhibits in support of the motion, none of which were attached to the declaration. Furthermore, the Court notes that multiple separate documents were filed on the same date of the instant motion, none of which reference to any particular motion. The Court will not consider any documents outside of and not properly incorporated to the motion. Furthermore, it is not clear that Defendant tendered the expert witness fee or whether the parties stipulated otherwise.  If no stipulation was made and Defendant failed to tender the fee with the deposition notice, then Steven Dunbar, D.C. and Babak Samimi, M.D. were not required to appear at the noticed deposition. In any event, due to the lack of evidence and the issue regarding the expert witness fees, the motion is denied.   Therefore, the motion compelling Steven Dunbar, D.C.’s and Babak Samimi, M.D.’s deposition is DENIED without prejudice.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿ Dated this 15th day of September 2023     Hon. Michelle Kim Judge of the Superior Court   