 Case Number:  23STCV23645    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Southland Transit, Inc.,


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV23645




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
 
Golden Bear Insurance Company, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 24, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena for Business
Records
Moving Party: Defendant Golden Bear Insuarance
Company
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO ENFORCE SUBPOENA
IS GRANTED.
 
ALLIANT IS ORDERED TO COMPLY WITH THE
SUBPOENA WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition was filed. 
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
Defendant moves to enforce a subpoena served
on third-party Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. on December 8, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants improperly denied coverage for an underlying personal injury
action. Defendant seeks documents from Alliant, an insurance broker, relating
to the policies, the loss, and its involvement in
settling the underlying action, including funding of the settlement. These
documents are relevant and discoverable. Alliant has not opposed the motion.
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 