


[1]
The court declines to specifically address and instead overrules Defendant’s
boilerplate objections because such objections are legally inadequate.

///////////////////Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant Yehuda Schmuckler and Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
BACKGROUND 
            On
November 29, 2023, Plaintiff Dianah Middleton, by and through her guardian ad
litem Leslie Middleton (Plaintiff), filed a complaint against Defendant South
Pasadena Care Center, LLC and Yehuda Schmukler (Defendant).
            The
complaint alleges the following causes of action: elder abuse and negligence.
            On
March 4, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with a notice of deposition. The
deposition was set for March 19, 2024.
            Defendant
did not appear for the deposition. 
            On
March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant and production of documents.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “The
service of a deposition notice . . . is effective to require any deponent who
is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee
of a party to attend and to testify, as well as produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action . . . without having served a valid
objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks to compel the
deposition of Defendant and production of documents. The court notes Defendant
has offered dates of availability for the deposition. Moreover, Defendant has
not objected to the topics of inquiry. Accordingly, the court will address
whether Defendant’s objections to the requests for production of documents are
valid.[1]
            Request
No. 1
            This request seeks all documents
that name Defendant as a member or manager of South Pasadena Care Center, LLC,
which were in effect from May 24, 2023 to October 5,
2023. Defendant first objects that this request is overbroad. But Plaintiff
has limited her request to documents that were in effect during a limited
timeframe. In addition, Defendant objects that Civil Code section 3295 protects
the facility’s operating budget from disclosure. However, this request does not
target Defendant or South Pasadena Care Center’s financial condition. Defendant
also invokes attorney-client privilege. But Defendant has not demonstrated that
all responsive documents are covered by this privilege. Last, Defendant has not
articulated how this request implicates confidential business documents. Thus,
Defendant shall produce responsive documents.
            Request
No. 2
            This request seeks all documents
that name the members of South Pasadena Care Center, LLC that were in effect
from May 24, 2023 to October 5, 2023. Defendant invokes the same objections he
raised against Request No. 1. The objections are unavailing for the same
reasons cited above. Defendant shall produce responsive documents.
            Request
No. 3
            This request seeks all documents
that constitute the organizational documents as to the creation of South
Pasadena Care Center, LLC. Defendant invokes the same objections he raised
against Request No. 1. The objections are unavailing for the same reasons cited
above. Defendant shall produce responsive documents.
            Request
No. 4
            This request seeks all documents
available to Defendant from January 1, 2023 to October 5, 2023 that reference
facility staffing, census, interaction with the Department of Public Health,
and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Defendant objects that
this request targets confidential medical information of third-parties. (Bugarin
v. Chartone, Inc. (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1561-1562.) However, this
request specifies that the third-parties’ names and identifying information
should be redacted. In addition, Defendant objects that Evidence Code section
1157 protects these records. Evidence Code section 1157 gives a blanket
exclusion from discovery to records of committees of hospital medical staffs
concerned with evaluation and improvement of the quality of care in the
hospital. (Roseville Community Hospital v. Superior Court (1977) 70
Cal.App.3d 809, 813.) But Defendant does not clarify whether these documents
were prepared for quality assurance discussions. Nor does Defendant demonstrate
that a medical staff committee used the information for the evaluation and
improvement of quality of care. Thus, Defendant shall produce responsive
documents. 
            Request
No. 5
            This request seeks all documents
that evidence South Pasadena Care Center, LLC was sufficiently capitalized from
May 24, 2023 to October 5, 2023. Defendant incorporates its objections from
Request Nos. 1 and 4, which are unavailing. The court notes Defendant’s
objection that Civil Code section 3295 protects South Pasadena Care Center’s
financial information under Civil Code section 3295. But such information is
discoverable where it goes to the heart of the cause of action. (GT, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 748, 754.) In the complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that South Pasadena Care Center’s misconduct resulted from its
financial policies, practices, and limitations. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) Thus,
Defendant shall produce responsive documents.
            Sanctions

            Plaintiff seeks sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (g).) Because Defendant
objected to the requests for production without substantial justification,
sanctions are warranted. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable, and
he has substantiated his request with a breakdown of work performed. (Garcia Decl.,
¶ 11.) 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion is moot as to
Defendant’s appearance at deposition and the topics of inquiry. The court
grants Plaintiff’s motion as to Requests for Production 1-5. The court grants
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Defendant shall pay Plaintiff attorney fees
in the sum of $4,110.00 within 30 days of this order. 
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.


