 Case Number:  22SMCV00916    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  I The application is DENIED. 
This is really in the nature of a discovery motion.  Plaintiff contends that defendants’ discovery
responses, served on October 28, 2024, were inadequate and that documents that
ought to have been provided were not provided. 
Accordingly, plaintiff would like to schedule an emergency IDC and,
presumably, if that does not result in an agreement, an emergency motion to
compel.  The FSC is scheduled for
November 25, 2024, and the trial is set for December 2, 2024.  Plaintiff argues that it cannot file its
exhibit list or exhibits presumably because those were some of the documents
plaintiff expected to get in discovery. 
The complaint was filed on June 17, 2022.  The trial date was set in April 2023. 
 
The basic problem with plaintiff’s position is that
discovery motions must be heard no later than 15 days before the trial
date.  That means that the last day to
have heard the motion was November 15, 2024—which coincidentally is the same
date that plaintiff sent defendants the meet and confer letter regarding
discovery.  Because the time to hear
discovery motions has passed, the court is without power to consider
plaintiff’s application.  Hearing the
motion this close to trial would require a motion by plaintiff to re-open
discovery—a motion plaintiff has not made. 
Even had plaintiff made the motion, discovery this critical should have
been sought many months ago.  The court
is not sure why it is that plaintiff waited until the eve of trial to seek this
information.  (That is not to say that
there is not a good reason; it is just that the court does not know what it is
and cannot grant relief based on a mystery.) 
Nor does the court know what is wrong with the discovery responses.  It could be that the responses are in bad
faith, but it could also be that the responses are fine.  Again, the court is not ruling either way,
but the court will not grant an ex parte application on a guess.  (Of course, the discovery cut off does not
apply to a trial subpoena, but that is not now at issue.)
 
As to a delay in getting the exhibits filed, again the court
is inclined to deny.  When the trial date
was set, the court expressly warned the parties that compliance with the FSC
and trial requirements was a difficult task. 
The court specifically advised the parties to begin the process two or
three months ahead of the FSC because otherwise this very kind of problem could
develop.  The court does not know why it
is that the parties did not follow the court’s strong advice.  
 
The court expects compliance with its FSC order, which means
that the FSC papers are due today, and that includes the exhibit list.