  Case Number:  20SMCV00636    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  I Defendant filed 8 untimely in limine motions.  According to the rules, in limine motions
must be filed according to the normal notice procedures such that they can be
heard at the FSC.  That means they had to
be filed no later than October 24, 2024 (16 court days before the FSC).  They were filed on November 4, 2024, over a
week late.  The motions are therefore
DENIED AS UNTIMELY.  Defendant states
that he and plaintiff stipulated to an alternative schedule.  That is well and good, and had it been
presented to the court, the court might well have approved it.  But the parties cannot stipulate to such
things without court approval, especially when (as here) it affects the court’s
preparation time.
 
Were the court to rule on the merits, the following is how
the court would rule.  
 
MIL 1.  DENIED.  Defendants’ motion fails to identify any
specific evidence and presumes that all evidence is speculative.  This one came out of the form book—a practice
that this court abhors.
 
MIL 2.  It appears
that plaintiffs have no intention of introducing evidence of defendants’
malpractice insurance, something defendants would know if they had bothered to
ask in an appropriate way as required by the rules.  The motion is MOOT.
 
MIL 3.  This motion
would be GRANTED IN PART.  There has been
a long-running debate as to the scope of the case.  Plaintiffs will be bound by the four corners
of their complaint, which does include paragraph 18.  To the extent that they elaborated in
discovery responses, the court would be inclined to allow evidence going to
those issues to be heard.  But that will
end the latitude.  Plaintiffs cannot have
a free-ranging malpractice case in which their theory keeps changing.  That is especially true given that they moved
to amend the complaint to add allegations concerning settlement offers not
communicated.  The court denied that
motion, but stated that it would allow plaintiffs to move again if they were
specific about the offer—given that the motion was made on the eve of
trial.  Plaintiffs elected not to amend,
so the court believes that plaintiffs are standing on the complaint as written
as a tactical and considered matter.  The
court will hold plaintiffs to that assuming timely objections are made.  This means that settlement offers consistent
with paragraph 18 can come in, as well as arguments that a non-rescission
settlement of more than $650,000 could have been achieved but for the
malpractice.
 
MIL 4.  DENIED.  The motion is not specific as to the evidence
in question.  Further, defendants would
have to make a more particularized showing to exclude this sort of evidence.
 
MIL 5.  GRANTED IN
PART.  To the extent that there was a
mediation, it is covered by the mediation provisions in the Evidence Code.  While sometimes called the “mediation
privilege,” the rule is not really a privilege. 
Rather, it is a provision enacted by the Legislature to further candor
at mediations.  What it says,
essentially, is that things said or written in the context of a mediation are
inadmissible unless all parties (or relevant parties) to the mediation so
agree.  Case law suggests this is true even
in malpractice cases.  Thus, to the
extent it involves statements made during the mediation by or to HHI, it would
require HHI to agree to the disclosure. 
To the extent it involves only internal discussions between plaintiffs
and counsel, it would require agreement of those parties.  As to the initial mediation with Fischbach,
then, this will require Fischbach to agree, and apparently, defendants do not
agree.  As to the mediation that later
settled the case, Fischbach has no say in the matter.  If plaintiffs, plaintiffs’ counsel at the
time, and (to the extent necessary) HHI agree to disclosure, then
disclosure is appropriate, but not otherwise. 
Plaintiffs contend that the first mediation was not “real” because
defendants viewed it only as a “bluff.” 
The court is not aware of a “bluff” exception to the statute.  The court notes, though, that this applies
only to things said at the mediation or documents prepared for the mediation.  Underlying documents that are used in the
mediation do not become excluded if they are otherwise admissible and
discussions between plaintiffs and defendants not at the mediation are also
admissible.
 
MIL 6.  DENIED.  This is a motion to exclude certain emails
not produced in discovery.  The court is
quite concerned about this.  The emails
in question are between HHI’s counsel and Fischbach.  Apparently Fischbach did not produce them in
discovery for reasons unknown. 
Plaintiffs have them and apparently intend to use them.  Assuming that they can be authenticated (and
HHI’s counsel is apparently doing so), the court sees no reason to exclude
them.  By definition, even if plaintiffs
did not produce them, defendants had them. 
The court notes that the documents are partially redacted.  The court will need to know the basis for the
redaction to know whether the redaction is proper or not.  If it turns out that the documents are
authentic, then defendants will have some significant explaining to do as to
why they did not produce the documents during discovery, unless, of course,
they did.
 
MIL 7.  DENIED as too
general.  The court agrees as a general
proposition that an undesignated expert cannot give an expert opinion.  Here, the witnesses in question are the
witnesses from the underlying case who were going to opine on the house’s
condition.  The court will not let them
opine here, but they surely can testify that they had been prepared to testify
there.
 
MIL 8.  GRANTED in
part.  The parties stipulated to strike
the request for non-economic damages. 
Although the stipulation was without prejudice, that means that
plaintiffs could seek to re-add it by way of appropriate motion.  No such motion was made.  Accordingly, the stipulation remains binding.  It cannot be undone by simply ignoring
it.  As to attorneys’ fees, that is
likely a collateral matter and the court will deal with it then if by this the
parties mean the fees incurred in this litigation.  To the extent that it meant the fees incurred
in the underlying litigation, that is different, but it is hard to tell.
 
More troubling, the FSC materials are still not ready.  The court is therefore inclined to declare
that the matter is NOT READY FOR TRIAL. 
The court will set a TSC for some time after the holidays.  The trial date is VACATED.
 