 Case Number:  23SMCV00120    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to dismiss and for fees brought by
cross-defendant Fenske against cross-complainant.  The gist of the motion is that under the CCP,
a party suing a licensed architect for malpractice must also file a Certificate
of Merit.  That Certificate must certify
that counsel has consulted with a licensed architect and obtained an opinion
that there was professional negligence. 
The Certificate, at the initial stage, does not need to identify the
architect that was consulted.  However, the
failure to consult and obtain the opinion before suit is filed is fatal to the
action with certain exceptions.  Upon
conclusion of the suit, a defendant may seek fees if suit was filed without the
proper Certificate of Merit or consultation.
 
A procedural question first. 
Cross complainants seem to believe that briefing is a matter of filing
what they want to file when they want to file it.  The court reminds the parties that there are
statutes that govern briefing.  Failure
to follow those statutes is improper. 
Briefs filed without authority are likely to be stricken.  For example, cross-complainants’ opposition
filed yesterday.  It would be one
thing if the opposition only said that cross-complainants had dismissed certain
causes of action (also done yesterday). 
But it goes beyond that.  The
court will order all parties to abide the rules.  Further unauthorized briefing will result in
the brief being stricken and sanctions.
 
The matter was here before—on July 30, 2024.  Much of what the court thought then is what
it thinks now.  The court does not
believe that the motion is untimely or improper.  The statute allowing the motion to be brought
as an attack on the pleadings is not a jurisdictional one, but rather a
permissive one.  The statute does not say
that such is the exclusive way to bring the motion.
 
At the prior hearing—of which cross-complainant states it
was not given proper notice, hence leading to the court’s decision to vacate
that order—the court noted that it would inquire whether the problem was that
there was no Certificate but that the required consultation did in fact
occur.  In other words, that a
Certificate of Merit could have been properly filed, it was just that the
filing was overlooked.  That would stand
in sharp contrast to a situation where there was no timely consultation at
all.  In the former case, the problem can
be cured.  After all, the statutory
purpose is to require that the consultation occur and that an opinion be given
of professional negligence.  If that was
done, the failure to file the Certificate is not fatal for it can truthfully be
filed once the motion is brought.  But if
the consultation and opinion did not timely occur, then the problem is fatal.  It cannot be cured by a consultation after
the fact.
 
Cross-complainant asserts that, even so, the dismissal would
affect only causes of action for professional negligence (and cross-complainant
agrees to dismiss that particular cause of action, suggesting the answer to the
above question, and indeed did so—along with the breach of contract cause of
action—yesterday).  The court agrees as a
general proposition.  Thus, poor plans
would be covered.  But things that might
not be so obvious would be covered as well. 
A so-called fraudulent statement that the architect was a good one would
also be covered.  In other words, a
statement or concealment that really goes to competence or negligence would be
covered.  However, other things would not
be covered.  So, for example, if Fenske
allegedly said that he had been licensed for 10 years but it was really only 6
months, that could be fraud and it would not go to the Certificate of Merit.  If Fenske claimed to have worked for 100
hours but really only worked for 75 the statute would also not seem to
apply.  The point is that the required
consultation would not be about things like that.  The court will inquire whether there are any
of the fraud allegations that do not sound in negligence or competence but
sound in some other way unrelated to the quality of the work performed.  The court has looked at the cross
complaint.  Paragraph 41 suggests that
Fenske lied because he said he was capable when he was not.  That would likely be barred.  He also allegedly lied when he said that the
plans were ready to be built and that if more detail was needed, it could be
added and need not be included in what was given to the planning department,
but in fact the lack of details resulted in expensive change orders.  That also seems like professional negligence,
not necessarily fraud.  The concealment
cause of action is that Fenske was suspended from practice for 30 days and on
probation for five years, but he did not disclose that and in fact told
cross-complanaints that there was an action against him for other work.  That would seem to be beyond the Certificate
of Merit scope.  The court will discuss
that further.
 
If there are any surviving causes of action, then the fee
motion is premature.  If not, though, the
court believes that the motion is properly before the court.  Fenske seems to seek $10,725 from each
cross-complainant.  If the total fees are
$10,725, then the liability is joint and several, but only one recovery.  The court also needs some additional information.  Fenske is not entitled to fees for his own
time.  Fenske relies on Abandonato v.
Coldren (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 264, for a contrary view.  However, that case was overruled on this
precise point in Musaelian v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512.  Further, that case dealt with 128.5
sanctions.  The sanctions here are really
pursuant to CCP section 411.35.  But that
said, at least in the Civil Code section 1717 context, one may recover
attorneys fees for an attorney who advised a party but was not retained as
counsel of record.  (Mix v. Tumanjian
Development Corp. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 1318.)  The court would think that similar reasoning
would apply in the section 411.24 context. 
However, before the court steps into that legal tangle, the court will
need to determine if the cross-complaint ought to be dismissed in full or only
in part.