 Case Number:  23CHCV03245    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept.
F-51 
Date: 5/30/24
Case #23CHCV03245
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

MAY 29, 2024
 

MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Form
Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV03245

 
Motions
filed: 4/17/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Emily Lambie (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants
Jesus Guzman; and Eco Energy Solutions, Inc. dba High Voltage Electric (collectively,
“Defendants”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Defendants’ further responses to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 13.1 and 13.2 within 10 days. Plaintiff also
requests monetary sanctions against Defendants and/or their counsel in the
total amount of $5,898.30.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The motions
are granted. Defendants are ordered to serve further code-compliant responses
to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 13.1 and 13.2, within 20
days. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendants and their counsel in the
amount of $761.65.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in which Plaintiff alleges
that on 1/31/23, she was injured in a motor vehicle incident between the
vehicle she was driving and the one driven by defendant Jesus Guzman while he
was in the course and scope of his employment with defendant Eco Energy
Solutions, Inc. (“Eco Energy”). (Compl. p. 5.)
 
On 10/25/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging against
Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and
(2) General Negligence. On 11/29/23, Defendants filed their answer.
 
On 11/15/23, Plaintiff served Eco Energy with her Form
Interrogatories, Set One. (Decl. of Justice D. Turner ¶ 3.) On 11/30/23,
Plaintiff served Guzman with her Form Interrogatories, Set One. (Ibid.) On
1/21/24, Defendants served their responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 4.) On
3/19/24, Defendants served Plaintiff with supplemental responses. (Id. at
¶ 6.)
 
On 4/17/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel Defendants’
further responses to Form Interrogatory Nos. 13.1 and 13.2. On 4/26/24,
Defendants filed their oppositions. No reply has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be
discovered; (2) An exercise of the party’s option to produce writings; or (3)
An objection to the particular interrogatory.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.210,
subd. (a).)
 
“Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.220.) “If an objection is
made to an interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground
for the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection
is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be
clearly stated.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.240, subd. (b).) 
 
A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further responses to interrogatories if any of the
following apply: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete; (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate; or (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to
compel Defendants’ additional responses to her first set of Form
Interrogatories, specifically Interrogatory Nos. 13.1 and 13.2, which seek whether Defendants conducted
surveillance of any individual involved in the incident or any party to the
action, and whether any reports were prepared relating to any such surveillance.
(Ex. 1 to Turner Decl.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that on 3/29/23, he sent Defendants’ counsel a met and confer letter regarding
the issues raised in the instant motion. (Turner Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendants’ counsel responded on 4/1/24, and
counsel for the parties met and conferred on 4/9/24 and 4/10/24, but were
unable to informally resolve the issues. (Id. at ¶¶ 9–10.) Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the meet and
confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision
(b)(2).
//
//
//
B.     Attorney
Work Product Privilege
 
The attorney work product doctrine protects writings
reflecting “an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research
or theories” from being discoverable under any circumstances. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2018.030, subd. (a).) “The work product of an attorney, other than a writing
described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court determines
that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in
preparing that party’s claim or defense or will result in an injustice.” (Id.
at subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendants responded to the
subject interrogatories as follows: “This interrogatory seeks
information that is protected by the attorney-client and/or attorney
work-product privileges. This interrogatory is also premature in that discovery
and investigation are ongoing and continuous and it may require the premature
disclosure of impeachment evidence, which may or may not be in the defense’s
possession but the defense has no duty to disclose prior to Plaintiff’s
testimony at trial (California Evidence Code §768, §769, 2 4 and §780.).” (Ex.
2 to Turner Decl.) Plaintiff argues that “here, Defendant interposed the
attorney-work product doctrine and premature expert disclosure objections to
Formal Interrogatories 13.1 and 13.2 at issue, without any effort to explain or
identify how each objection applied.” (Pl.’s Mot. 3:9–11.)
 
Plaintiff contends that “it has become practice for Defense
Counsel to hire private investigators to videotape Plaintiff for hundreds of
hours to ‘catch’ the Plaintiff to appear not injured or doing an activity that
Plaintiff claimed to be limited to do. Investigators film Plaintiffs for
hundreds of hours and the videos are edited to a few minutes for the jury to
watch, depicting the Plaintiff to appear not injured; therefore, it is crucial
that to void Plaintiff from being ambushed at trial and be labeled as a
‘dishonest’ person.” (Id. at 3:25–4:2.) Plaintiff therefore asserts that
she “should not be ambushed at trial or immediately prior to trial with
surveillance videos of” herself. (Id. at 4:7–8.)
 
Defendants argue in opposition that no good cause
exists here to compel their further responses to Form Interrogatory Nos. 13.1
and 13.2 where “Plaintiff wants an opportunity to explain or rehabilitate any
adverse surveillance claims. Surveillance investigations are for impeachment,
if used at all, and this has been confirmed to plaintiff’s counsel. Defendant
has no intention to introduce any surveillance video in a case in chief if one
were to exist.” (Defs.’ Opp. 3:2–5.) Defendants contend that such “investigations
reflect counsel’s impressions, conclusions, and/or theories and are ‘writings’
entitled to absolute protection because they may also include reports,
photos/video, taken from a particular angle or viewpoint, photographic
enlargements, that show counsel’s theory of liability.” (Id. at 4:9–12.)
 
Plaintiff relies on Suezaki v. Superior Court of
Santa Clara County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166, where the California Supreme Court
found that surveillance footage of a plaintiff in a personal injury action,
taken by an independent investigator engaged by defense counsel, was not
protected by the attorney-client privilege, and that whether the plaintiff’s
inspection of the footage was barred under the attorney work-product doctrine
lay within the trial court’s discretion. In opposition, Defendants argue that Suezaki
is distinguishable because it “was decided in 1962, before the enactment of
amendments to the Discovery Act that recognized the attorney work-product
privilege.” (Defs.’ Opp. 5:26–27.)
 
Defendants argue in opposition that “surviellance
[sic] investigation is an investigation performed by a party’s investigator,
much like an expert consultant at the direction of counsel. The law is clear
that any work performed by an undesignated expert consultant is protected from
disclosure by the attorney work product doctrine.” (Id. at 3:6–9, citing
Williamson v. Superior Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 829, 834.) “An
investigator is a consultant and the time, date, place, and location clearly
provide insight into the attorney’s theory of the case and reflect counsel’s
opinions, thus, this is privileged information.” (Id. at 3:18–20.) The
Court is not persuaded by this contention.
 
Here, Defendants have not presented any legal
authority supporting their proposition that independent investigators
conducting surveillance of a party to the action, without that party’s
knowledge, are subject to the same protections as expert consultants. Moreover,
surveillance footage prepared by these independent investigators do not contain
any attorney “impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or
theories” that would qualify it for absolute attorney work-product privilege. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2018.030, subd. (a).)
 
Additionally, as Plaintiff notes, “Plaintiff is not
requesting the actual substance of the surveillance, but simply whether
surveillance was conducted on Plaintiff, when the surveillance occurred, and
identifying information of the person(s) who conducted the surveillance.”
(Pl.’s Mot., p. ii, ll. 5–7.) The Court finds Defendants’ argument that “the
risk of losing impeachment value of surveillance is particularly at issue,
because Plaintiff seeks the actual surveillance, not just information on
whether surveillance was done” lacks merit, as the plain language of the
interrogatories do not seek the contents of any such surveillance. (Defs.’ Opp.
5:4–6.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that “in addition to good cause existing for the discovery of sub
rosa evidence in order to prepare the attorney to cross examine the
investigator who did the sub rosa, good cause also exists for the production of
sub rosa evidence to avoid trial by ambush and unfair surprise.” (Pl.’s Mot. 5:7–10.)
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants’ further
responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 13.1 and 13.2.
 
C.    Monetary
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd.
(c).) Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests a total combined sum of $5,898.30 in monetary sanctions against Defendants and/or their counsel,
which encompasses: (1) 11.5 hours of Plaintiff’s attorney’s time spent her
motion with respect to Eco Energy; and (2) 5 hours of counsel’s time spent on
her motion with respect to Guzman, at counsel’s hourly billing rate of $350.00
per hour. (Turner Decl. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff also seeks to recover $61.65 in filing
fees per motion. (Id. at ¶ 12.) In granting the instant motions, the
Court finds it reasonable to award Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the amount
of $761.65. against Defendants and their
counsel.
CONCLUSION
 
The motions are granted. Defendants are ordered to serve
further code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos.
13.1 and 13.2, within 20 days. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendants
and their counsel in the amount of $761.65.