 Case Number:  21STCV44247    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Patrick v. 29350 LLC
21STCV44247
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial


Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
 
On December 3, 2021, Plaintiff Lynda
Patrick (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against 29350 LLC (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 20 asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges that on December 10, 2020, she slipped and fell on
dangerous stairs on Defendant’s premises.
 
On January 13, 2022, Defendant filed an
Answer. 
 
On June 7, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment.
 
On July 17, 2024, Defendant filed a second
motion for summary judgment. The second motion for summary judgment is set for hearing
on May 27, 2025.
 
On September 16, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion to continue trial and all related dates. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on September 24, and Defendant filed a reply on October 1.
 
Trial is currently set for November 6, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has
the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them
conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should
be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v.
Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude
in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c).) “The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.) Circumstances that may support
a finding of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances; 

(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances; 

(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The new party has
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the
case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts;
or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status of
the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that the
court may consider:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension
of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 

(3) The length of the continuance requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the
problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer
as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial
setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance
outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a
continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by
a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” 

(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a
summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole
v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
 
Defendant has
filed a motion for summary judgment that is set for hearing on May 27, 2025. Defendant
seeks a trial continuance so that its motion can be heard before trial. 
 
Defendant’s summary
judgment motion was timely filed. Defendant has a right to have its timely
filed summary judgment heard before trial. (Cole,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 88; Sentry Ins. Co., supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at p. 529.)
 
Plaintiff opposes
this motion on the ground that it would cause an unfairly prejudicial delay to
Plaintiff and that Defendant’s motion is an improper second motion on the same
grounds asserted in a prior motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(2).) The Court
has reviewed the new motion for summary judgment, as well as its ruling on
Defendant’s prior motion and make a preliminary determination that there are at
least some new issues and grounds raised in Defendant’s second motion. This preliminary
ruling does not preclude Plaintiff from opposing the summary judgment motion on
the ground that it is unduly and improperly duplicative, but the preliminary
ruling is sufficient to support the Court’s ruling that, based on the record
before the Court at this time, the second motion is not a sham or frivolous
filing interposed solely for purposes of delay. The Court also understands Plaintiff’s
concerns about prejudice from delay, but, under the case law, the Court must
give greater weight to the right of Defendant to have its timely filed motion
for summary judgment heard before trial.
 
Accordingly, the
motion to continue trial is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to continue trial. The Court CONTINUES the trial date to a date in early
July 2025. The Final Status Conference and all discovery deadlines are reset based
on the new trial date.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.