  Case Number:  21STCV01473    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Mo v. Harris
21STCV01473
Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order
Tentative
The
motion for a protective order is granted in part and denied in part.
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is granted in part and denied in part.
Background
On January 13, 2021, Beini Mo
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Cole Harris (“Defendant”) and Does 1
through 26, asserting causes of action for (1) assault and battery, (2)
negligence, and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress causes of action
arising out of an incident in which, Plaintiff alleges, Defendant drugged her
and made unwanted sexual advances. (Complaint, ¶¶ 6 & 7.)
On February 16, 2021, Defendant filed an
answer containing a general denial and affirmative defenses.
On January 9, 2024, Defendant filed a
notice of settlement.  On January 30,
Defendant filed a substitution of counsel, substituting himself (in pro per)
for his former counsel.  
On February 1, 2024, on Plaintiff’s ex
parte application, the notice of settlement filed by Defendant’s (now former)
counsel was stricken and a Trial Setting Conference was set.  On February 8, 2024, trial was set for April
11, 2024.
On March 27, 2024, Defendant filed a substitution
of counsel, substituting in new counsel. 

On April 10, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue trial and set the trial for June
17, 2024.  On April 12, the Court granted
Defendant’s ex parte application to continue trial and set the trial for July
1, 2024.
On April 18, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion for a protective order.  Defendant
also requests sanctions.  The hearing date
was set for July 1, 2024.
On June 14, 2024, the Court, on the
stipulation of the parties, continued the trial date to November 18, 2024, and
continued the hearing on the motion for a protective order to September 18,
2024.
On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the motion, along with her own request for sanctions.
On September 11, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply.
Defendant subsequently continued the
hearing to October 9.
Legal
Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in part:
“(a) Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more
of the following directions:
(1) That
the deposition not be taken at all.
(2) That
the deposition be taken at a different time.
(3) That
a video recording of the deposition testimony of a treating or consulting
physician or of any expert witness, intended for possible use at trial under
subdivision (d) of Section 2025.620, be postponed until the moving party has
had an adequate opportunity to prepare, by discovery deposition of the
deponent, or other means, for cross-examination.
(4) That
the deposition be taken at a place other than that specified in the deposition
notice, if it is within a distance permitted by Sections 2025.250 and 2025.260.
(5) That
the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and conditions.
(6) That
the deponent’s testimony be taken by written, instead of oral, examination.
(7) That
the method of discovery be interrogatories to a party instead of an oral
deposition.
(8) That
the testimony be recorded in a manner different from that specified in the
deposition notice.
(9) That
certain matters not be inquired into.
(10)
That the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters.
(11)
That all or certain of the writings or tangible things designated in the
deposition notice not be produced, inspected, copied, tested, or sampled, or
that conditions be set for the production of electronically stored information
designated in the deposition notice.
(12)
That designated persons, other than the parties to the action and their
officers and counsel, be excluded from attending the deposition.
(13)
That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed or be disclosed only to specified persons or only
in a specified way.
(14)
That the parties simultaneously file specified documents enclosed in sealed
envelopes to be opened as directed by the court.
(15)
That the deposition be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court.
(16)
That examination of the deponent be terminated. If an order terminates the
examination, the deposition shall not thereafter be resumed, except on order of
the court.
…
(h) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
Discussion
Plaintiff
has noticed the deposition of Defendant. 
The deposition notice states that the deposition will be taken at the
office of Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Scandura
Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.) 
Defendant
moves for a protective order.  In particular,
Defendant asks for an order requiring that the deposition be taken either (1)
by remote means or (2) in-person at Defendant’s home, but with Plaintiff being barred
from attending.  Plaintiff’s counsel does
not agree with excluding Plaintiff from attending the deposition in person, but
Plaintiff does agree to a remote deposition, provided that a monitor is
present.
(Although
it is not entirely clear to the Court – and it should have been made clear by Defendant,
who is the moving party and has the burden of presenting evidence to support the
requested relief – it appears that Defendant is under court supervision in
another pending matter [perhaps bail or probation or parole] and either cannot
leave his home or must obtain advance approval from court personnel prior to
leaving his home.  As no party contests
this point, the Court accepts as true that Defendant has some legal restriction
on leaving his home.)
As an
initial matter, parties in civil litigation have the right to attend depositions,
absent a showing of some good cause.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.310, subd. (b).)  Here,
Defendant has not shown good cause to exclude Plaintiff from attending the
deposition of Defendant.  Although Defendant
contends that Plaintiff has made false allegations against him, it is hardly
unusual in civil litigation for a party to contend that the other party’s
allegations (or denials) are untrue.  There
is no evidence presented in support of the motion that Plaintiff has (for
example) acted improperly in the past or that her mere presence at a deposition
would somehow be disruptive or inconsistent with the orderly conduct of the proceedings.  
Having said
that, the Court does not understand why Defendant filed this motion.  Defendant initially offered to have his
deposition taken by remote technology. (Nourian Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. 3.)  After some back and forth between counsel,
Plaintiff proposed a reasonable compromise in an email dated April 15, 2024, with
a time stamp of 12:02 pm: the deposition would be taken remotely, with a representative
of Plaintiff present to monitor the deposition to ensure that there is no
improper coaching.  (Scandura Decl., ¶ 8
& Exh. H, p. 3.)  
Defendant
rejected this proposal seven minutes later. 
(Ibid.)  Defendant said
that the “proposed conditions” were “[n]ot acceptable,” but Defendant never
said why.  (Ibid.)  Instead, Defendant threatened to seek
sanctions against Plaintiff.  (Ibid.)  Counsel exchanged approximately eight more
emails that afternoon but they were unproductive (and that is a polite term for
some of Defendant’s emails); counsel did not resolve the matter.  (Scandura Decl., Exh. H, pp. 4-6.)
Three
days later, Defendant filed this motion. 
Defendant made no mention of Plaintiff’s reasonable compromise proposal
or why it was not acceptable.  In reply (and
only after Plaintiff mentioned the compromise in her opposition), Defendant claims
that he does not know what Plaintiff means by a “monitor” – which is hard for
the Court to find credible, particularly given that if Defendant truly was
uncertain about this he could have asked Plaintiff at any time in the past five
months.  Defendant suggests that when Plaintiff
says “monitor,” she might mean a discovery referee, but that comes out of
nowhere and is not supported by anything in any of the correspondence, other evidence,
or briefing.
In sum,
the Court finds that Plaintiff offered a reasonable compromise to avoid the
need for this motion, Defendant rejected it without ever saying why, Defendant
filed this motion without mentioning the compromise proposal, and even now
Defendant cannot offer any explanation as to why the compromise is not
acceptable.
The
motion is granted in part and denied in part. 
The deposition will proceed through remote technology.  Plaintiff’s counsel and Plaintiff may attend
remotely.  Plaintiff may send someone else
(such as a legal assistant or other representative of Plaintiff or her counsel)
to attend the deposition in person. 
Both
parties request sanctions.
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied.  The motion
is granted in part and denied in part, and Plaintiff has acted with substantial
justification.  Moreover, it would be unjust
to award sanctions against Plaintiff or her counsel where, as here, Plaintiff
offered a reasonable compromise to avoid the need for this motion practice, and
Defendant rejected the compromise out of hand and without ever explaining why. 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is granted in part. 
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.  Defendant has not acted with substantial
justification, and it would not be unjust to award sanctions against Defendant
and his counsel under these circumstances, where Plaintiff offered a reasonable
compromise to avoid the need for this motion practice, and Defendant rejected
the compromise out of hand and without ever explaining why.
The
Court sets sanctions in the amount of $1,250, calculated based on 2.5 hours of
reasonable attorney time multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of
$500 per hour.  (Scandura Decl., ¶ 11.)
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS IN PART AND DENIES IN PART Defendant’s motion for a protective
order.
The
Court ORDERS that Defendant’s deposition must be taken by remote means within
10 days of the hearing, on a date to be arranged by counsel.
The
Court FURTHER ORDERS that Plaintiff must provide a link for the deposition at
least 24 hours in advance of the deposition, that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel must attend remotely, and that Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel may (at
their cost and option) send a representative to attend the deposition in person
to monitor and observe the deposition proceedings.
The
Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
The
Court ORDERS Defendant and his counsel of record Allen B. Felahy, jointly and
severally, to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act in the
amount of $1,250 to Plaintiff (through Plaintiff’s counsel of record) within 30
days of notice.
Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.