 Case Number:  22STCV06786    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Sliwoski v. Extended Stay America
22STCV06786
Motion to Continue Trial and Reopen Discovery
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and
denied in part.
Background 
On
February 24, 2022, Plaintiff Molly Jean Sliwoski (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Extended Stay America, Inc.; ESA P Porfolio
Operating Lessee, LLC (“ESAP”); and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes
of action for negligence and premises liability.  Plaintiff
alleges that on September 29, 2020, while Plaintiff was visiting a guest at
Defendant’s premises, she sat on a bench, the bench collapsed, and she
sustained injuries as a result.
On March 30,
2022, ESAP filed its answer.
On July
21, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name ESH Hospitality, Inc., as Doe
1.
On
September 19, 2022, Defendant ESA Management, LLC (“ESAM”), erroneously sued as
Extended Stay America, Inc. and ESH Hospitality, Inc., filed its answer.
On June
12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  On June
16, 2023, ESAP and ESAM (collectively, “Defendants”) filed an answer to the
FAC.
When the
case was filed, the Court assigned a trial date of August 24, 2023.  On the stipulation of the parties in July
2023, the Court continued the trial date to May 24, 2024.  On the motion of Plaintiff filed in April
2024, the Court continued the trial date to June 28, 2024, but the Court did
not extend any discovery deadlines.  
On June
20, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The hearing was set for July 22, 2024.  
On
Plaintiff’s ex parte application, the trial date was continued to August 26,
2024.  Discovery remained closed.
Following the
cyber attack on the Los Angeles County Superior Court, the Court continued the
hearing on the motion to be relieved to August 8, 2024.  For reasons related to the schedule of
Plaintiff’s counsel, the hearing was continued to August 14, 2024.
On August
14, 2024, the Court granted the motion of Plaintiff’s counsel to be relieved
and continued the trial date to December 3, 2024.  Discovery remained closed.
Two days
later, on August 16, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney, identifying
her new counsel.  Represented by new
counsel, Plaintiff filed a notice of association of additional counsel on
August 23.
On September
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to continue trial date and to reopen
discovery.  Defendants filed an
opposition on September 25, and Plaintiff filed a reply on October 2.
Trial
is set for December 3, 2024.
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil
Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the
power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to
law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should be granted
is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) 
“A trial court
has wide latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or
denying of continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the
prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm.  All parties and their counsel must regard the
date set for trial as certain.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered
on its own merits.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  “The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 

(5) The addition of a new party if: (A)
The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new
party's involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a
motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all the facts
and circumstances that are relevant to the determination.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)
sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial
date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050 provides that “[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ “[A] continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings” unless a motion to reopen discovery is granted pursuant to section
2024.050.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b); see also Pelton-Shepherd
Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
1568.)¿ 
The reopening of discovery is a matter
that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050, subds. (a) & (b).)¿ In exercising that discretion, the trial
court may consider “any matter relevant to the leave requested,”
including: 
(1) The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery. 
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence
of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and
the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion
was not heard earlier.¿¿ 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party. 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).) 
A motion to reopen discovery pursuant to section 2024.050 must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal
resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).) 
“The purpose of imposing a time limit
on discovery is to expedite and facilitate trial preparation and to prevent
delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the parties could tie up each other and the
trial court in discovery and discovery disputes right up to the eve of trial or
beyond. Furthermore, ... to be effective the cutoff date must be firm or some
litigants will manipulate the proceedings to avoid the cut-off date.”¿ (Beverly
Hosp. v. Superior Court¿(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1289, 1295.)¿ 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s
former counsel brought a motion to be relieved shortly before trial.  Despite the timing, the Court granted the
motion based on the declaration of counsel reporting that ethical issues precluded
his continued representation of Plaintiff. 
Based on the evidence, the Court concluded that the motion to be
relieved was not the equivalent of a voluntary substitution on the eve of trial
or an attempt to manufacture a contrived excuse for a further continuance of
trial.  
Plaintiff
now has new counsel and seeks an order to continue the trial date and reopen
discovery.  In particular, Plaintiff
would like the opportunity to depose treating physicians, experts, and Defendants’
persons most qualified (PMQs).  Plaintiff
argues (or perhaps contends) that she has Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CPRS)
and the importance of expert witness testimony “cannot be overstated.”  (Mem. at p. 5.)
The
Court turns to the factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050, subdivision (b).
(1) 
The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
Plaintiff has identified some discovery
that has not been taken and is highly relevant and has substantial probative
value in connection with the litigation of her case.  This is particularly true as to the treating
medical professionals and expert witnesses.
It is true, of course, that the witness
testimony could be obtained for the first time at trial, without prior
deposition, but the presentation of evidence at trial is likely to be streamlined
substantially with a pre-trial deposition. 

Plaintiff has not shown that any
further written discovery among the parties is necessary.  Plaintiff has already propounded 250 Requests
for Admission, 192 Special Interrogatories, and 136 Requests for
Production.  (Kim Decl., ¶ 2.)  
Plaintiff has not shown that the
requested PMQ depositions are necessary or highly relevant.  Plaintiff has already deposed Ms. Danielle
Smith, the hotel manager and corporate representative.  (Kim Decl., ¶ 3.)  Given the underlying facts, it is unclear on
this record what, if anything, the PMQ depositions would add; Plaintiff does
not even identify the topics on which she seeks to obtain further testimony or
explain why such testimony has not already been covered by the extensive
written discovery that Plaintiff propounded and the deposition testimony of Ms.
Smith.
As to the treaters and the experts,
this factor weighs heavily in favor on granting Plaintiff’s motion. As to other
discovery, this factor weighs against granting the motion.
(2) The diligence or
lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a
discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that
the discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿¿ 
This factor weighs moderately against
Plaintiff’s motion.  Plaintiff has
conducted substantial written discovery and has taken the deposition of a key defense
witness. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  There is
no explanation offered, however, for why the depositions that Plaintiff now
seeks to take were not completed prior to the discovery cutoff (other than a
lack of diligence by prior counsel).
(3) Any likelihood
that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the
case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial
calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
Plaintiff seeks a short continuance of
the trial (approximately 45 days) to complete the discovery.  Defendants argue that a further continuance
and reopening of discovery would be prejudicial to them, as discovery has been
closed for months and the case was largely worked up for trial in June
2024.  Defendants have shown that granting
the motion would cause some prejudice to them, but the Court finds that it is moderate
in degree.  This factor weighs moderately
against Plaintiff’s motion.
(4) The length of
time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently
set, for the trial of the action. 
This factor is
neutral.  It is true that the trial date has
been continued four times, but the first time was on the stipulation of the
parties, the next two were short continuances so that pending motions could be
heard before trial, and the last one was ordered to avoid any unfair prejudice
to Plaintiff from the order relieving counsel. 
The case was filed in February 2022, an amended complaint was filed in
June 2023, and a short continuance to allow further discovery would not unduly
impede the efficient administration of the case toward resolution.
The Court has considered
all of the relevant facts and circumstances, including the factors set forth in
section 2024.050.  On balance, the Court
finds that the good cause has been shown to reopen discovery in part and to order
a brief additional continuance of the trial. 
Some of the discovery that Plaintiff has identified is highly relevant,
will promote the purposes of pre-trial discovery under the Civil Discovery Act,
and will lead to a more efficient presentation of the evidence at trial.  Granting the motion will cause some prejudice
to Defendant, but that very real concern is substantially outweighed by the greater
prejudice to Plaintiff in not permitting her to complete some of the discovery she
identifies in her motion.
Accordingly, the Court: (1)
grants the motion to continue trial; (2) reopens fact discovery in part,
limited to discovery directed to the medical professionals who treated
Plaintiff; (3) reopens expert discovery; and (4) resets the discovery
deadlines (as to the limited discovery that is permitted by this order) based
on the new trial date.  
Conclusion
The Court
GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiff’s motion. 
The Court CONTINUES the
trial date to a date on or after January 17, 2025.  The Final Status Conference is reset based on the new trial date.
The Court REOPENS fact discovery
in part, limited to discovery directed (by any party) to the medical
professionals who treated Plaintiff.
The Court REOPENS expert
discovery.
The Court RESETS all discovery
deadlines (as to the limited discovery that is permitted by this order) based
on the new trial date.  
The Court DENIES the motion
to reopen other fact discovery.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.