  Case Number:  23SMCP00497    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Pacific 1 LLC v.
SMRCB
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00497
MOTION:                  Writ
of Mandamus
HEARING DATE:   8/5/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A writ of mandate lies “for the
purpose of inquiring into the validity of any final administrative order or
decision made as the result of a proceeding in which by law a hearing is
required to be given, evidence is required to be taken, and discretion in the
determination of facts is vested in the inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or officer[.]” (CCP, § 1094.5(a).)¿Pertinent questions include “whether the
respondent has proceeded without, or in excess of, jurisdiction; whether there
was a fair trial; and whether there was any prejudicial abuse of discretion.
Abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the order or decision is not supported by the findings,
or the findings are not supported by the evidence.”¿ (CCP, § 1094.5(b).)¿ 
 
When not involving a fundamental
vested right, the Court’s inquiry into abuse of discretion revolves around
whether the findings are supported by substantial evidence in the light of the entire
record.¿(CCP, § 1094.5(c); see Alpha Nu Assn. of Theta XI v. University of
Southern California (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 383, 408-409 [“review is
limited to examining the administrative record to determine whether the
adjudicatory decision and its findings are supported by substantial evidence in
light of the whole record”].)¿Substantial evidence may be described as relevant
evidence that a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a
conclusion (California Youth Authority v. State Personnel Board (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 575, 584-85), or evidence of ponderable legal significance
which is reasonable in nature, credible and of solid value. (Mohilef v.
Janovici (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 267, 305 fn. 28.)¿In other words, the
Court “may reverse an agency’s decision only if, based on the evidence before
the agency, a reasonable person could not reach the conclusion reached by the
agency.”¿ (Sierra Club v. California Coastal Com. (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
602, 610.)¿ 
¿¿ 
The petitioner bears a high burden
of proof to demonstrate that the evidence supports their position by citation
to the administrative record.¿(Strumsky v. San Diego County Employees
Retirement Assn. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 32; see LASC Local Rule 3.231(i).)¿“A
trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the
administrative findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision
bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are”
not supported by substantial evidence. (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999)
20 Cal. 4th 805, 817; see also Evid. Code, § 664.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioner Pacific 1 LLC claims
Respondent Santa Monica Rent Control Board (SMRCB) committed an abuse of
discretion by issuing a decision contrary to the “overwhelming” evidence presented
at a hearing whether Real Party in Interest Pamela Deliz (“Tenant”) “maintains
occupancy of the Apartment as her secondary residence” and thus, was protected
by rent control. (Memo Iso Pet., pp. 3, 5.) 
 
The Santa Monica Rent Control Board
Regulations, Regulation 3304(a) states: 
 
“In accordance
with the purposes of the Rent Control Law to regulate rents for tenants in
order to help alleviate the impact of the serious housing shortage on tenants,
a landlord may petition for a determination that the unit is not the tenant’s
residence. If a rental unit is kept for secondary occupancy, such as a vacation
home, or purpose other than the tenant’s residence, the landlord may petition
the Board for a determination that the tenant is a ‘tenant not in occupancy.’
If a tenant is determined to be a ‘tenant not in occupancy,’ a one-time
increase in the unit's maximum allowable rent shall be awarded , . ..”
 
Under Regulation 3304 (e): “the
landlord has the burden of establishing a prima facie case in the petition and
supporting documents that the unit is not the tenant’s residence. If the
landlord establishes this prima facie case, the burden of proof shifts to the
tenant to prove that the unit is her or his usual residence of return.”  Regulation 3304(g) provides several factors to
consider under the totality of the circumstances:
 
“Occupancy as a
tenant’s residence does not require that the tenant be physically present in
the unit at all times or continuously but that it is the tenant’s usual
residence of return. Evidence that the unit is not the tenant’s residence
includes, but is not limited to, the following factors. These factors shall be
weighed in light of the totality of the circumstances. [¶] (1) the tenant does
not carry-on basic living activities at the unit for extended periods of time; [¶]
(2) another property or unit is listed as the tenant’s place of residence on
any motor vehicle registration, driver’s license, voter registration, or with
any other public agency, including federal, state, and local taxing
authorities; [¶] (3) utilities for the unit are billed and mailed to a
different residential property; [¶] (4) the tenant’s personal possessions are
not located in the unit; [¶] (5) a homeowner’s tax exemption or renter’s credit
for the tenant has been filed for a different property or the tenant is owner
of record of a different residential property; [¶] (6) the tenant is a
corporation or is otherwise not a natural person. This factor shall not apply
if the tenant is a trust and the trust’s beneficiary is the unit’s occupant or
if a natural person is the subtenant residing at the unit; [¶] (7) the tenant
is absent from the unit for extended periods of time, other than for military
service, hospitalization, vacation, family or friend emergency or care, Peace
Corps service, academic sabbatical, or other reasonable temporary or seasonal
periods of absence, such as travel necessitated by employment or education; [¶]
(8) the unit is used primarily for storage, entertaining, or as an office; [¶] (9)
the tenant rents more than one unit at the property and the number of occupants
is less than the number of bedrooms in the combined units.
 
 (Regulation 3304(g).)
 
Respondent found, as a matter of
fact, that Tenant resides in the Santa Monica apartment as her usual residence
of return. Petitioner cites no conclusive or “overwhelming” evidence
which would require Respondent to find otherwise. In fact, Tenant presented substantial
evidence which, if credited, would support Respondent’s conclusion that Tenant maintains
occupancy at the apartment as her “residence of return.” In their petition, Petitioner
minimizes or ignores Tenant’s evidence in support of this finding, while
focusing on other evidence.  Petitioner relies
upon evidence that that neighbors testified that they only saw Tenant a “few
times” during 2020-2022, that Tenant owns three real estate properties outside
of California, that she doesn’t have functioning gas at the apartment, and her lack
of corroborating evidence. Petitioner deems Tenant’s supporting evidence
incredible but does not demonstrate that no reasonable person could believe that
evidence. 
 
Here, Tenant presented evidence on all
the enumerated factors, including the seven factors which Petitioner left
unaddressed. Tenant showed that the apartment was listed as the tenant’s place
of residence on her license and voter registration. She regularly received mail
for her electricity bill, social security statements, and jury summons at the apartment.
(AR 39, 426-437.) She filed state and federal tax returns at the address. (AR
664.) She received healthcare in Los Angeles. (AR 668.) Moreover, Tenant
addressed the fact that she would leave California for extended periods of
time. Tenant would often travel to Pennsylvania, Ohio and New Jersey to manage
investment properties and engage in renovation efforts as part of her business.
(AR 710, 715-716, 721, 725.) Despite this travel, Tenant repeatedly returned to
her apartment in Santa Monica. (AR 40; Finding No. 79.) She presented evidence
that she visits the New Jersey property once a year to maintain it, but the property
is not regularly occupied because it requires significant renovations. (AR
39-40.) Respondent’s investigator inspected the unit and found the unit to be
fully furnished with Ms. DeLiz’s personal possessions. (AR 39.) Tenant also
explained that she would use propane to cook at the Apartment. (AR 773.) 
 
A reasonable fact finder could weigh
this evidence in favor of Tenant on all the enumerated factors and
determine that the Apartment was Tenant’s usual residence of return. As such,
Respondent did not abuse its discretion.
 
Accordingly, the petition is
DENIED.