..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 19STCV28515
Plaintiff's Name: Michael LaPorta, Beverlee LaPorta
Defendant's Name: David W. Affeld, Affeld Grivakes LLP
People-Names: Damion Robinson, Jody Steinberg, Paul Hittelman
Company-Names: Affeld Grivakes LLP
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: March 15, 2024, August 28, 2018, September 3, 2018, November 29, 2018
Events: Mandatory settlement conference, discovery, litigation
Money: $300,000
Intentions: To grant summary adjudication in favor of defendants
Facts: Defendants did not make a settlement offer in the amount of $300,000, Plaintiffs' evidence is inadmissible hearsay
Disputes: Legal malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty
Acts: Failure to convey settlement offer, misrepresentation of settlement offer
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc., Code Civ. Proc., ยง 437c, subd. (c), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 437c, subd. (f)(1), Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC v. Owen, Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court, Akhlaghpour v. Orantes, O'Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees' Retirement Assn.
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements: "The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing that the first cause of action for legal malpractice has no merit because Defendants have shown that an element of the cause of action (Defendants' breach of their duties) cannot be established." "The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendants' breach of their fiduciary duties."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge grants the defendants' motion for summary adjudication on the first cause of action for legal malpractice and the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, limited to the claims that the defendants failed to convey a settlement offer in the amount of $300,000 to the plaintiffs in the underlying litigation. The judge finds that the defendants have met their burden of showing that they did not breach their duties to the plaintiffs, and that the plaintiffs' evidence is insufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact. The judge sustains the defendants' evidentiary objections to the plaintiffs' evidence and finds that the plaintiffs' evidence is inadmissible hearsay. As a result, the judge grants the defendants' motion for summary adjudication and orders them to give notice of this ruling.
