  Case Number:  19STCV28515    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




michael laporta

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
david w. affeld

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV28515




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   20, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Affeld Grivakes LLP
and David Affeld
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Michael LaPorta and Beverlee
LaPorta
Motion for Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on defendants Affeld Grivakes LLP and David Affeld’s
evidentiary objections, filed on March 15, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 2-5.
The court overrules Objection No. 1.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Affeld Grivakes LLP and David
Affeld ( “Defendants”) move the court for an order granting summary
adjudication in their favor and against plaintiffs Michael LaPorta and Beverlee
LaPorta (“Plaintiffs”) (1) on the first cause of action for legal malpractice
as to the claim that Defendants failed to convey to Plaintiffs a settlement
offer in the underlying litigation, and (2) on the second cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty as to the claim that Defendants failed to convey to
Plaintiffs a settlement offer in the underlying litigation. 
As noted by Defendants, “[a] motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1) [emphasis added].)  However,
“[a] recognized exception to the statutory language [set forth in section 437c,
subdivision (f)(1)] holds that where two or more separate and distinct wrongful
acts are combined in the same cause of action in a complaint, a party may
present a summary adjudication motion that pertains to some, but not all, of
the separate and distinct wrongful acts.”  (Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC v. Owen (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549, citing Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855 [“under subdivision (f) of section 437c, a party
may present a motion for summary adjudication challenging a separate and
distinct wrongful act even though combined with other wrongful acts alleged in
the same cause of action”].)  “That is
because each separate and distinct wrongful act is an invasion of a separate
and distinct primary right, and each violation of a primary right is a separate
and distinct ‘cause of action’ – regardless of how the claim is presented in
the complaint.”  (Blue Mountain
Enterprises, LLC, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 549.)
The court finds that Plaintiffs’ first cause
of action for legal malpractice is based on several “separate and distinct
wrongful acts [i.e., breaches][,]” including Defendants’ alleged   (1) failure to diligently prosecute the
underlying matter, (2) failure to honestly disclose developments in the matter,
including offers in settlement, (3) misrepresentation of the amount of
settlement offers and the failure to disclose such offers, (4) disparagement of
Plaintiffs in a discriminatory manner, (5) abandonment of Plaintiffs, (6)
claiming and incurring of excessive fees and costs, (7) failure to timely
respond to discovery and motions, and (8) delay in releasing file materials and
failure to provide complete file materials to Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶ 12; Blue Mountain Enterprises,
LLC, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 548.)  Similarly, the court finds that the second
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is based on several “separate and
distinct wrongful acts [i.e., breaches of fiduciary duties][,]” including Defendants’
alleged (1) failure to perform legal services with competence, (2) failure to
act with reasonable diligence, (3) failure to inform Plaintiffs of decisions
and circumstances, (4) failure to explain matters to Plaintiffs to allow them
to make informed decisions regarding their representation, (5) failure to
promptly communicate the amounts, terms, and conditions of settlement offers,
(6) abandonment of Plaintiffs, (7) failure to release the complete file to
Plaintiffs and/or their subsequent counsel, and (8) engagement in conduct that
involved dishonesty, conceit, and intentional misrepresentation.  (FAC ¶ 16; Blue Mountain Enterprises,
LLC, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 548.) 
Because Plaintiffs’ first and second causes
of action are each based on several separate and distinct alleged violations of
primary rights (breaches of duties), the court finds that Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication, which is directed at the separate claims that
Defendants failed to convey a settlement offer in the amount of $300,000 to
Plaintiffs in the underlying action, is proper. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1); Blue Mountain
Enterprises, LLC, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 549; Notice of Mot.,
p. 2:10-15; FAC ¶¶ 12, subds. (b) [Defendants were professionally
negligent based on their “[f]ailure to honestly and fully disclose developments
in the matter including offers in settlement”], (c) [Defendants were
professionally negligent based on their “[m]isrepresenting the amount of and
failure to disclose settlement offers”], 16, subd. (e) [Defendants breached
their fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs because they “[f]ailed to promptly
communicate the amounts, terms and conditions of settlement offers”];
Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) Nos. 1-2; Def. Compendium of Evidence (“Def.
COE”) Ex. B, pp. 3:3-26, 4:16-21 [Pl. Michael LaPorta’s discovery responses
stating that the facts supporting the contentions made in paragraphs 12 and 16
consist of there being a settlement offer in the amount of $300,000, of which
Plaintiffs were not advised].)   
The court therefore rules on Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication only as to    
(1) the first cause of action for legal malpractice, limited to the separate
and distinct claim that Defendants breached their legal duty to Plaintiffs when
they failed to convey a settlement offer in the amount of $300,000 to
Plaintiffs in the underlying action, and (2) the second cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, limited to the separate and distinct claim that
Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs when they failed to
convey a settlement offer in the amount of $300,000 to Plaintiffs in the
underlying action.  (FAC ¶¶ 12, subds.
(b), (c), 16, subd. (e); Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC, supra,
74 Cal.App.5th at p. 549.)
 

1.     First
Cause of Action for Legal Malpractice
“[T]he elements for a legal malpractice cause of action in
California are: ‘(1) the duty of the attorney to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as members of his or her profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the breach
and resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
attorney’s negligence.’”  (Akhlaghpour
v. Orantes (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 232, 254-255 [internal citation omitted].)

The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the first cause of action for legal malpractice (the scope of which has
been limited above) has no merit because Defendants have shown that an element
of the cause of action (Defendants’ breach of their duties) cannot be
established.
First, Defendants have submitted evidence establishing that (1)
Damion Robinson, of Affeld Grivakes LLP, attended the August 28, 2018 mandatory
settlement conference with Plaintiffs in the underlying matter, but Plaintiffs
stayed in the hallway and were not present for the in-chambers discussions
counsel had with Judge Miller; (2) Defendants informed Plaintiffs that (i) a
settlement offer of $50,000 was made at the August 28, 2018 mandatory
settlement conference and (ii) Jody Steinberg (who attended the August 28, 2018
mandatory settlement conference on behalf of the defense) had indicated that
more money was available to settle the case; and (3) the defendants in the
underlying action did not make a $300,000 settlement offer at the first
mandatory settlement conference.  (UMF
Nos. 3-4, 14, 16; Robinson Decl., ¶¶ 10-11, 14-15; Def. COE Ex. D,
Steinberg Dep., pp. 35:20-36:7 [testifying that (1) any settlement offer made
on behalf of the defense at the August 2018 mandatory settlement conference was
made by Steinberg personally, (2) the highest amount that was offered in
settlement in that setting was $50,000, and (3) it “is not true” that a
$300,000 settlement offer was made by the defense at the first mandatory
settlement conference].)  
Second, Defendants have submitted evidence showing that Plaintiffs
cannot establish the element of breach of duty because the only evidence that
they produced during discovery is inadmissible and therefore insufficient.  Specifically, in response to Defendants’
Requests for Production of Documents, numbers 4 and 20, Defendants demanded the
production of all writings pertaining or relating to the allegations that
Defendants failed to disclose the terms and amounts of all settlement offers to
Plaintiffs.  (Def. COE Ex. C, Requests
for Production, pp. 3:13-17, 7:13-20.) 
Plaintiff Michael LaPorta produced “Exhibit 1” in response thereto.  (Ibid.)  That exhibit includes (1) an email from
defendant David Affeld dated September 3, 2018, which does not state that a
$300,000 settlement offer was made, (2) what appears to be a handwritten note,
and (3) a letter dated November 29, 2018 addressed to Plaintiffs and signed by
Paul Hittelman.  (Def. COE Ex. 1 to Ex.
C, pp. 2, ¶ 4 [Sep. 3, 2018 email]; Def. COE Ex. 1 to Ex. C, p. 1
[Hittelman letter].)  It is undisputed
that the letter from Hittelman is “the only evidence of a $300,000 settlement
offer made at the first” mandatory settlement conference that plaintiff Michael
LaPorta identified and produced.  (UMF
No. 22.)  However, the court finds that
this letter is inadmissible to prove that a $300,000 settlement offer was made
because the statements made therein to that effect are hearsay.  (Evid. Code, § 1200, subd. (a) [“‘Hearsay
evidence’ is evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness
while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the
matter stated”].)  
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden of
submitting evidence establishing that they did not fail to convey a settlement
offer in the amount of $300,000 to Plaintiffs during the underlying litigation
and therefore have negated the element of breach of duty.  (Akhlaghpour, supra, 86
Cal.App.5th at pp. 254-255.)
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendants’
breach of duty.      
            In opposition, Plaintiffs assert
that (1) certain individuals (namely, an agent of the insurer and Plaintiffs’
previous attorney) told them that a $300,000 settlement offer was made at the
August 2018 mandatory settlement conference, and (2) plaintiff Beverlee LaPorta
heard the settlement judge state that a $300,000 settlement offer had been
made.  (Opp., pp. 1:28-2:7.)  However, the court has sustained Defendants’
evidentiary objections to the evidence submitted by Plaintiffs to support those
assertions.  Thus, Plaintiffs have not
submitted admissible evidence in support of those assertions.  
            The court therefore finds that
Plaintiffs have not met their burden to submit evidence that is sufficient to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the element of
Defendants’ breach of duty. 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for legal malpractice, limited to the
claim that Defendants committed legal malpractice by failing to disclose and misrepresenting
the terms of the alleged $300,000 settlement offer to Plaintiffs in the
underlying litigation.  (FAC ¶ 12,
subds. (b), (c); Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC, supra,
74 Cal.App.5th at p. 549.)
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
“‘The elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the
existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage
proximately caused by that breach.’”  (O’Neal
v. Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184,
1215.) 
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty (the scope of
which has been limited above) has no merit because Defendants have shown that
an element of the cause of action (Defendants’ breach of their fiduciary duties)
cannot be established.
As set forth above, Defendants have submitted evidence
establishing that (1) the defendants in the underlying action did not make a
settlement offer in the amount of $300,000, and (2) the evidence produced by
Plaintiffs in discovery to support their claim that such a settlement offer was
made but not relayed to them is inadmissible hearsay and therefore  is insufficient to establish the element of
Defendants’ breach of their fiduciary duties. 
(UMF Nos. 3-4, 14, 16, 22; Robinson Decl., ¶¶ 10-11, 14-15; Def.
COE Ex. D, Steinberg Dep., pp. 35:20-36:7; Def. COE Ex. 1 to Ex. C; Evid. Code,
§ 1200.)  The court finds that this
evidence is sufficient to show that Defendants did not fail to inform
Plaintiffs of a settlement offer made in the underlying action and therefore is
sufficient to show that the element of breach of their fiduciary duties cannot
be established.  (O’Neal, supra,
8 Cal.App.5th at p. 1215.)
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendants’
breach of their fiduciary duties.  
As set forth above, although Plaintiffs have asserted that they
were informed that a $300,000 settlement offer was made at the August 2018
mandatory settlement conference, Plaintiffs have not submitted admissible
evidence in support of those assertions. 
Thus, Plaintiffs have not met their burden to submit evidence that is
sufficient to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the
element of Defendants’ breach of their fiduciary duties. 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties,
limited to the claim that Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by failing
to promptly communicate the amounts, terms, and conditions of all settlement
offers in the underlying litigation. 
(FAC ¶ 16, subd. (e); Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC, supra,
74 Cal.App.5th at p. 549.)
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Affeld
Grivakes LLP and David Affeld’s motion for summary adjudication (1) as to
plaintiff Michael LaPorta and Beverlee LaPorta’s first cause of action for
legal malpractice, limited to the claim that defendants Affeld
Grivakes LLP and David Affeld committed legal malpractice by failing to
disclose and misrepresenting the terms of the alleged $300,000 settlement offer
to them in the underlying litigation, and (2) as to plaintiff Michael LaPorta and Beverlee
LaPorta’s second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties, limited
to the claim that defendants Affeld Grivakes LLP and David Affeld
breached their fiduciary duties by failing to promptly communicate the amounts,
terms, and conditions of settlement offers in the underlying litigation.  (Pl. First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 12,
subds. (b), (c), 16, subd. (e).) 
            The court orders defendants Affeld Grivakes
LLP and David Affeld to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  March 20, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court