 Case Number:  21STCV17952    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  73 12/03/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ENCINAS, et al. v. HIKARI JAPANESE
RESTAURANT, et al. (21STCV17952)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/moving party:  Marc
Grismer (Law Office of Marc P. Grismer)
Counsel
for Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC/opposing party: Fang Li
(Horton, Oberrecht & Kirkpatrick)
Counsel
for Defendant Jhoon, Inc./opposing party: James Hart (Law Offices of Schneider
& Hosmer) 
Counsel
for Cross-Complainant Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC: James Stanley (Law
Offices of Jill A. Wood)
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT MONTEBELLO MALL MANAGEMENT PR, LLC’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT (filed 8/22/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Cross-Complainant
Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 13, 2021, Plaintiffs Laurie Encinas and Jesus Encinas
filed this action against Defendants Hikari Japanese Restaurant, a.k.a. Sake
House by Hikari, a.k.a. Hikari Sushi Bar, an unknown entity; UBS Realty
Investors, LLC, a Massachusetts Limited Liability Company and Does 1 to 25. 
 
On June 15, 2021, Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC (“MTCI”) was named as Doe 1. 
 
On November 18, 2021, Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC (“MMMPR”)
was named as Doe 6. 
 
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Death of
Plaintiff Laurie Encinas. 
 
On November 30, 2023, a First Amended Complaint was filed by
Plaintiffs Jesus Encinas, Priscilla Pamela Chey, Jesus Encinas, Jr., Crystal
Laurie Encinas, Jennifer Rose Encinas, and Jennifer Rose Encinas on behalf of
the estate of Laurie Encinas. 
 
On October 24, 2024, the Court denied Defendant Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
This is an action for premises
liability arising from a trip and fall incident. Plaintiffs allege that on
March 7, 2021, Laurie Encinas attempted to enter the outdoor dining area of the “Sake
House by Hikari Sushi Bar” (hereinafter “Hikari Restaurant”) when she tripped and fell due to a
dangerous condition, an abrupt and exposed height differential of approximately
1-inch-high where the concrete walkway and Hikari Restaurant’s outdoor patio
entryway threshold met (“subject entryway”). Plaintiffs further allege that
Laurie Encinas fell forward and struck her head on an umbrella stand which caused
serious head injuries requiring immediate medical intervention. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) Negligence and
(2) Premises Liability.
 
On
August 22, 2024, Cross-Complainant MMMPR filed the instant Motion for Leave to
File First Amended Cross-Complaint, arguing:
·      
At the time
of the trip and fall incident, MMMPR was the mall manager pursuant to a
contract entered into between MTCI and MMMPR on December 28, 2018.
·      
The alleged property defect over which Mrs. Encinas tripped was
created during JHOON, INC.’s remodel of the space in 2016-2017, prior to MMMPR
becoming the manager of the mall.
·      
MMMPR filed its cross-complaint for contractual indemnity,
equitable indemnity and declaratory relief on May 4, 2022.
·      
MMMPR contends that by the terms of the lease between JHOON, INC.
and MTCI as well as the management agreement between MMMPR and MTCI that JHOON,
INC. and MTCI were to arrange insurance coverage for MMMPR to protect it in
instances such as this lawsuit. However, despite several tenders, the insurer
for JHOON, INC. stated that there is no coverage for MMMPR under JHOON, INC.’s
policy and the insurer for MTCI has never responded to the several tenders.
Accordingly, MMMPR contends that JHOON, INC. and MTCI have breached their
respective contracts.
·      
At the time that MMMPR filed its cross-complaint on May 4, 2022,
the tenders to the insurance carriers for JHOON, INC. and MTCI had not been
responded to. It is on that basis that MMMPR bring this motion for leave to
file a First Amended Cross-Complaint.
·      
MMMPR seeks to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint to include
causes of action for breach of contract due to the failure of MTCI and JHOON,
INC. to procure insurance that protects MMMPR against this lawsuit. Leave to
file the First Amended Cross-Complaint is compulsory because it arises out of
the same transaction as Plaintiff’s Complaint under Code of Civil Procedure
§426.50 and is a “related cause of action” under Code of Civil Procedure
§426.10.
 
Defendant Jhoon, Inc. filed an opposition, arguing:
·       The motion is based upon what is now a false representation to the court

·       The motion is not yet ripe
·       The first amended cross-complaint’s allegations do not support breach of
contract; and
·       The motion is procedurally defective because it violates a mandatory
Rule of Court.
 
No reply was filed. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just,
an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon
like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.” 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
B.      Procedural Deficiencies 
As an initial matter, Cross-Complainant MMMPR’s
Motion fails to comply with California Rule of Court 3.1324.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading
shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located. 
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
Here, MMMPR attached a copy of the proposed
First Amended Cross-Complaint. (Motion, Ex. A.) However, the Motion does not state
what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, nor the allegations that are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located. In addition, the attached
declaration by MMMPR’s counsel does not specify the effect of the amendment and
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered. Thus, MMMPR’s Motion fails to
comply with California Rule of Court 3.1324.
Based
on the foregoing procedural deficiencies, Cross-Complainant
Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Cross-Complainant
Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 