 Case Number:  23STCV18481    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default
Judgment
Plaintiff Orange Grove Village II Homeowners Association requests court
judgment by default against defendant Nina R. Chomsky.  Plaintiff seeks judgment including a
permanent injunction, declaratory relief, costs of suit, and attorney
fees.  Plaintiff’s application meets all
requirements for default judgment.  
The
proposed judgment plaintiff submitted, however, is overly broad and not
sufficiently clear.  “ ‘A permanent injunction is merely a remedy
for a proven cause of action.  It may not
be issued if the underlying cause of action is not established.’ ”  (City of South Pasadena v. Department of
Transportation (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1280, 1293.)  “To qualify for a permanent
injunction, the plaintiff must prove (1) the elements of a cause of action
involving the wrongful act sought to be enjoined and (2) the grounds for
equitable relief, such as, inadequacy of the remedy at law.”  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff
has alleged, and defendant has admitted by default, that defendant breached the
terms of the homeowners association’s governing documents.  The CC&Rs provide, in relevant part, “The Board, or its authorized agents, may
enter any Unit when necessary in connection with any maintenance, landscaping,
repair or construction for which the Board is responsible, in case of any
emergency originating in or threatening the Unit, whether the owner is present
or not, or for any other purpose reasonably related to the performance by the
Board of its powers or responsibilities.  Such entry shall be made with as little
inconvenience to the Owners as practicable and shall be preceded by reasonable
notice wherever the circumstances permit, and any damage caused thereby shall
be repaired by the Board out of the common Assessments.”  (Comp., Ex. A, Art. IX, § 3(g).)
Plaintiff’s
proposed judgment provides for, among other things, “1. A permanent injunction
restraining Defendant from engaging in the following conduct in violation of
the Governing Documents: a. Refusing or denying the Association, its agents or
employees access to the Subject Property or any portion thereof.”  Such an order would permanently prohibit Chomsky
from denying plaintiff access to the property. 
It does not limit the reasons for which plaintiff may access the
property.  The injunction must be limited
to circumstances where plaintiff is entitled to access the property pursuant to
the CC&Rs. 
Paragraph
2 of the proposed judgment is not sufficiently clear.  “ ‘An
injunction must be narrowly drawn to give the party enjoined reasonable notice
of what conduct is prohibited.’ ”  (Midway
Venture LLC v. County of San Diego (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 58, 92.)  “It ‘must be sufficiently precise to provide
a person of ordinary intelligence fair notice that her contemplated conduct is
forbidden.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Paragraph 2 of the proposed judgment
provides, “Defendant shall grant the Association immediate access to the
Subject Property to allow for the remediation of the existing Governing
Document violations identified in the Complaint.”  Rather than referring to the complaint, the
judgment itself must specifically describe the conditions or violations of the
governing documents that defendant must allow plaintiff to remediate.  Referring to a separate document does not
give defendant clear notice of what the judgment requires of her.  
Finally,
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the proposed judgment are overly broad.  “[A] court may not issue a broad injunction
to simply obey the law, thereby subjecting a person to contempt proceedings for
committing at any time in the future some new violation unrelated to the
original allegations.”  (City of
Redlands v. County of San Bernardino (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 398, 416 (City
of Redlands).)  
Paragraph
3 provides, “Defendants shall comply with all other provisions of the Governing
Documents.”  Paragraph 4 provides for: “Declaratory
relief as follows: a. Defendant is bound by the Governing Documents of the
Association and shall comply with all provisions set forth therein at all times
she remains a member of the Association.” 
These provisions are the contractual equivalent of “an impermissible
‘obey the law’ injunction.”  (City of
Redlands, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 416.) 
The court cannot enter a judgment broadly ordering Chomsky to abide by
the governing documents, which total 48 pages. 
At most, the court could enter a judgment requiring Chomsky to abide by specified
provisions she violated.  This portion of
the judgment must identify and include the verbatim text of the provisions Chomsky
must abide by.
Plaintiff
Orange Grove Village II Homeowners Association’s request for court judgment by
default is denied without prejudice. 
Plaintiff is ordered to submit a modified proposed judgment in
accordance with this order no later than April 2, 2024.  The order to show cause re: entry of default
judgment is hereby continued to April 9, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.