  Case Number:  20STCV09886    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Dollin Davis and KDB
Restaurants, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Process and Dismiss Action
            Defendants
Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc. move to quash service of summons and to
dismiss the action under Code of Civil Procedure section 583.250.  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.210(a) provides, “The summons and complaint
shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action is
commenced against the defendant.  For the
purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the time the complaint
is filed.”  Section 583.250 provides: “(a)
If service is not made in an action within the time prescribed in this article:
(1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no further proceedings shall
be held in the action.  (2) The action
shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of any person
interested in the action, whether named as a party or not, after notice to the
parties.  (b) The requirements of this
article are mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception
except as expressly provided by statute.” 

Plaintiff
Roberto Corleto filed this action on March 11, 2020.  Plaintiff was thus required to serve
defendants no later than March 11, 2023. 
After numerous efforts to serve defendants and after plaintiff amended
the complaint three times, the court entered default judgment against
defendants Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc. on February 17, 2023.  On September 18, 2023, defendants moved to
set aside their defaults and the default judgment as void.  On October 23, 2023, the court found
plaintiff had not effected proper service of summons on defendants and
therefore granted defendants’ motion.  Plaintiff
did not serve the summons on defendants by March 11, 2023. 
 Plaintiff relies on two statutory
exceptions.  First, Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.240 provides: “In
computing the time within which service must be made pursuant to this article,
there shall be excluded the time during which any of the following conditions
existed: (a) The defendant was not amenable to the process of the court.”  This exception requires the plaintiff
to “demonstrate[] the existence of any circumstance indicating that defendant
was not subject to the court’s jurisdiction during some part of the
statutory three-year period.”  (Watts
v. Crawford (1995) 10 Cal.4th 743, 762–763.)  “[W]hether a party was ‘amenable to process’
would refer to an examination of whether that party was subject to being
served under applicable constitutional and statutory provisions.”  (Id. at p. 758.)  That phrase does not mean “a defendant’s
reasonable availability, as a practical matter, for service of process.”  (Ibid.)  A defendant is not “amenable to process”
when, for example, he or she lacks “the minimum contacts constitutionally
necessary to the court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction over her.”  (Id. at p. 762.)  
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues defendants were not “amenable to the process of the court”
because they “failed to file a single responsive pleading despite having been
properly served on numerous occasions.” 
(Opp., p. 8.)  That is not what
“amenable to the process of the court” means. 
And the court already found defendants were never properly served when
it granted defendants’ motion to vacate default and default judgment.  The opposition further argues defendants were
not “amenable to the process of the Court by refusing to participate in the
litigation of the case.”  (Ibid.)  Refusing to participate does not mean they
were not subject to the court’s jurisdiction. 
Nothing in the record shows any basis for making that finding.
Second, plaintiff argues service
“was impossible, impracticable, or
futile due to causes beyond the plaintiff’s control.”  (CCP § 583.240(d).)  This exception “ ‘must be construed strictly
against the plaintiff.’ ”  (Torrey
Hills Community Coalition v. City of San Diego (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 429,
436 (Torrey Hills).)  The
plaintiff “has the burden of showing diligence as a prerequisite to obtaining
relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 583.240, subdivision (d).”  (Id. at p. 437.)  
Courts
have strictly applied this provision despite harsh results for the
plaintiff.  Shipley v. Sugita
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 320 (Shipley) held, “Attorney misconduct does not
excuse a plaintiff’s failure to comply with the mandatory service requirements
of section 583.210.”  (Id. at p. 328.)  The court noted, “If the Legislature wishes
to extend the circumstances under which mandatory dismissal may be avoided, it
may do so.  To date, it has not.”  (Ibid.)  Similarly, that a defendant “may have known
of the lawsuit does not excuse plaintiff’s failure to effect timely service.”  (Bishop v. Silva (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d
1317, 1324 (Bishop).)  
            The Court of Appeal has denied
relief under this exception in circumstances like this case.  “[A]n erroneous entry of default judgment against
the defendant did not toll the period for service of process” where, “[a]lthough
the default judgment had made timely service impracticable, the erroneous entry
of that judgment was the plaintiff’s fault.” 
(Shipley, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 325.)  “[E]ntry of the default and default judgment
against [defendant] tolled the dismissal period only if the claimed
impracticability of service was due to causes beyond [plaintiff’s] control.”  (Dale v. ITT Life Ins. Corp. (1989)
207 Cal.App.3d 495, 502.)  The plaintiff “must
bear responsibility for his agent’s failure to effect service of process.”  (Ibid.)  The circumstances of obtaining a default
judgment (later vacated) based on improper service was “entirely within [plaintiff’s]
control.”  (Id. at p. 503.)
Plaintiff
argues, “Defendants here made service impracticable and futile due to causes
beyond Plaintiff’s control.  Namely,
defense counsel, despite having taken part in attempted settlement negotiations,
simply ignored and failed to respond to Plaintiff’s multiple communicated
requests for defense counsel to accept service on behalf of her clients in this
matter.  By refusing to communicate with
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding Plaintiff’s good faith efforts to serve
Defendants, Defendants made service impracticable.”  (Opp., p. 9.) 
An attorney is not required to accept service on behalf of her clients.  (See Estate of Moss (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 521, 530-533.)  Whether a
defendant communicates or responds to the complaint is irrelevant to whether service
was possible.  Otherwise, this exception
would apply to most (if not all) cases where defendants default. 
Moreover,
as the court explained in its order granting defendants’ motion for relief from
default, the defect was in the summons served, not the manner of serving
it.  Plaintiff’s service was invalid solely
because the court found defendants “present sufficient evidence that plaintiff
only served the initial summons on them.” 
(Oct. 23, 2023 minute order, p. 2.) 
That summons was ineffective as to Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc. because it did not name them as
defendants.  (Ibid.)  It was not impossible, impracticable, or
futile to serve the correct summons on defendants.  Multiple times, plaintiff served a summons
on defendants via an otherwise valid manner. 
But that summons was not valid as to these defendants.  All proper service would have required was that
those otherwise successful attempts at service simply included the correct
summons.  That was entirely within the
control of plaintiff and his agents.  Plaintiff
presents no evidence that anything outside his control prevented him or his
agents from obtaining and serving a proper summons on defendants.  (See Torrey Hills, supra, 186
Cal.App.4th at p. 438 [if clerk did not issue summons, plaintiffs’ “ ‘remedy
would have been to apply to the court to require the clerk to perform this
responsibility’ ”].)
Finally,
plaintiff argues that public policy favors resolving disputes on the merits and
the case should not be dismissed for “small procedural technicalities.”  (Opp., p. 4.)  Assuming plaintiff’s numerous defective
efforts to serve defendants were improper due to small procedural
technicalities, they were entirely within plaintiff’s control.  As discussed above, courts narrowly construe
the exception for impossible or impracticable service under Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.240(d).  The Court
of Appeal has noted that the general policy in favor of resolving disputes on
the merits does not apply to this provision. 
(Shipley, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 326 [this exception “must
be construed strictly against the plaintiff,” while “the similar exception” to
the five-year deadline to a bring case to trial “is construed liberally,
consistent with the policy favoring resolution on the merits”].)  Narrowly construing this exception includes finding
it does not apply even when service is invalid due to small technicalities.
Plaintiff
does not meet his burden of showing any statutory exception under Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.240 applies. 
Dismissal is therefore mandatory. 
Disposition    
Defendants Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc.’s motion to dismiss
the action under Code of Civil Procedure section 583.250 is granted.  The court hereby dismisses the action against
Dollin Davis and KDB Restaurants, Inc., with prejudice.  Defendants shall submit a proposed judgment
of dismissal for the court’s signature forthwith.