  Case Number:  23TRCV01911    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B VICTOR O’MARA, et al.,    Plaintiffs, Case No.:  23TRCV01911 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  SCOTT PACE, et al.,   Defendants.       Hearing Date:                         June 14, 2024 Moving Parties:                      (1), (2) Defendants Scott Pace, Christian Surrett, S&P Fabrication Services, and The Steel Erection Company; (3) cross-defendant Jonathan Nguyen, (4) cross-defendants Victor O’Mara, JN Builds, Inc., and Best Equipment Services, LLCResponding Party:                  (1), (2) Plaintiffs Victor O’Mara, et al.; (3), (4) none(1)  Demurrer to SAC(2)  Motion to Strike Portions of SAC(3)  Demurrer to FACC(4)  Demurrer to FACC             The Court considered the moving, opposition and reply papers as to the demurrer to SAC and motion to strike. There was no opposition filed as to the demurrers to the FACC.RULINGAs to the Second Amended Complaint, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to individual plaintiffs as to the third, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action in the SAC.  The demurrer is OVERRULED as to plaintiff Best Equipment as to the third and eighth causes of action.The Court desires to hear argument as to the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action.There is no ruling on a motion to strike.The demurrers to the FACC are SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action.BACKGROUND            On June 13, 2023, plaintiffs Victor O’Mara, JN Builds, Inc. and Jonathan Nguyen filed a complaint against Scott Pace, Christian Surrett, S&P Fabrication/Services, The Steel Erection Company, and Larry Rick Torgerson, Jr. for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) conversion, (4) expulsion of LLC member, (5) intentional interference with contractual relationships, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, and (8) violation of Bus. and Prof. Code §17200, et seq.            On June 15, 2023, plaintiffs filed a FAC.            On September 15, 2023, the parties stipulated and the Court ordered that plaintiff file a SAC.            On October 3, 2023, plaintiffs filed a SAC, adding plaintiff Best Equipment Services, LLC and defendant Benchmark Services LLC.            On December 13, 2023, defendant Larry Rick Torgerson, Jr. filed a cross-complaint against Victor O’Mara, Jonathan Nguyen, JN Builds, Inc., and Best Equipment Services, LLC for (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional misrepresentation – fraud, (3) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, and (6) professional negligence.            On December 26, 2023, cross-complainant filed a FACC.LEGAL AUTHORITYDemurrerWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.Strike“The court may, upon a motion . . ., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  (b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following:  (1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.DISCUSSIONDemurrer to SACDefendants Scott Pace, Christian Surrett, S&P Fabrication/Services, and The Steel Erection Company demur to the third, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action in the SAC on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. The SAC alleges that on May 20, 2019, defendant Torgerson formed Best Equipment as a single-member LLC.  SAC, ¶17.  Although Best Equipment was formed in May 2019, it did not get off the ground in that (a) its operating agreement was drafted but unsigned, (b) members were unknown and to be determined, (c) its payroll and health insurance plans were established but unfunded with fees and penalties accruing, (d) there were no employees, (e) invoices for legal services provided by the law firm incorporating the company was unpaid and past due, (f) it had no business activities, assets, equipment or even an active phone number, and (g) was operating out of Torgerson’s shared P.O. Box address.  Id., ¶18.  In the first few months of 2020, Torgerson approached and met with Member Plaintiffs and sold them the idea that Torgerson, with nearly 40 years in the crane business and an existing book of business of thousands of good revolving/repeating customers, could successfully operate and manage a crane and trucking business.  During their meetings, Torgerson presented an elaborate business plan for the business promising lucrative returns and all he needed was a financial partner.  Id., ¶19.The SAC further alleges that on April 24, 2020, plaintiffs and Torgerson entered into a written operating agreement for Best Equipment, in which the parties agreed:  a. Best Equipment would have four equity owners; b. Best Equipment would be managed by five managers with equal voting power; c. Torgerson was given equity credit for the first $70,000 of contribution; d. Torgerson would act as the president/CEO/operating manager; e. Torgerson agreed to dedicate his best effort and expertise to Best Equipment’s business operation, on a full time basis, in exchange for a monthly guaranteed draw of $8,000; and f. in the event of dissolution or separation, member plaintiffs and Torgerson agreed to be bound by a non-compete clause for a period of five years.  Id., ¶20.  Based on Torgerson’s experience and different book of business of yacht owners, Torgerson also presented member plaintiffs with a business plan for the “fuel” business for yachts under the same entity.  Id., ¶22.  Member plaintiffs and Torgerson mutually agreed to register in California as a foreign corporation doing business under the fictitious names “Benchmark Crane” and “Benchmark Fuel.” Id., ¶23.  Member plaintiffs contributed over $2.1 million within the first couple months.  They personally guaranteed a $1 million credit line.  Torgerson failed to make his proportional contribution in the sum of $350,000.  Id., ¶24.  Best Equipment began to reach its monthly goal of revenues.  Torgerson and the other defendants secretly planned to take full control and ownership of Best Equipment.  Id., ¶25.The SAC further alleges that as part of defendants’ plan to take full control and ownership of Best Equipment, defendants engaged in the following conduct:  a. Torgerson transferred Best Equipment’s main telephone number to his own separate personal account; b. Torgerson concealed funds collected from Best Equipment’s customers and others without the knowledge and consent of member plaintiffs; c. Torgerson maintained a second business bank account under the same name without the knowledge and consent of member plaintiffs; d. Torgerson converted Best Equipment’s funds by depositing the Best Equipment’s account receivables into Torgerson’s secret bank account; e. Torgerson embezzled Best Equipment’s funds for his own personal expenses; and f. Torgerson converted Best Equipment’s funds for the benefit of co-defendants and/or others who are not associated with Best Equipment.  Id., ¶26.  Torgerson shared Best Equipment’s financial information, including tax returns, with Pace and Surrett, who fraudulently represented themselves to be a “potential buyer.”  Id., ¶27. The SAC further alleges that on June 14, 2021, Torgerson, Scott Pace, and Christina Surrett, using a strawman named Anthony G. Lagomarsino, set up an identical crane business, Benchmark Services, as a California LLC.  Id., ¶28.  The principal place of business for Benchmark Services is the same address where Best Equipment’s cranes are parked.  Id., ¶29.  Benchmark Services’ internet address is www.benchmarkcraneLLC.com and that when this internet address is entered in the URL, the user is automatically re-directed to Best Equipment’s website used for the Benchmark Crane business, which virtually hijacks the content of Best Equipment’s Benchmark Crane website content as if it were Benchmark Services’ own content.  Id., ¶30.  The SAC further alleges that defendants embezzled, stole, and/or converted Best Equipment’s Benchmark Crane-related resources for their own benefit, including Best Equipment’s physical addresses, website address, phone number, and employees to perform side businesses; using Best Equipment’s cranes, vehicles, and equipment and billed the customers for services as if it were rendered by Benchmark Services; stone and/or converted fuel paid for and stored on site; and instructed Best Equipment’s customers to issue payment for services rendered using Best Equipment’s equipment and employees to Benchmark Services.  Id., ¶31.  Defendants also attempted to convert other valuable assets by concealing them in a locked container owned by their companies S&P and/or Steel Erection.  Torgerson denied to member plaintiffs that he had knowledge of the content of the container or access but later opened with a key from his key chain.  Id., ¶32. StandingDefendants argue that member plaintiffs lack standing for any alleged injury to the member plaintiffs directly as to the third, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action in that they are derivative in nature.  Defendants also argue that the member plaintiffs are improperly joined.In opposition, plaintiffs argue that implicit in defendants’ argument that the member plaintiffs do not have standing is the admission that Best Equipment has standing to pursue the causes of action against defendants.  Plaintiffs assert that when allegations are made on behalf of plaintiffs, the persons making those allegations include Best Equipment. The Court finds that member plaintiffs lack standing as to the third, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.  Member plaintiffs are seeking to redress injuries to Best Equipment and therefore the causes of action can only be brought as a derivative action, and not as their personal claims.  The gravamen of the SAC is that Best Equipment was injured, that it was deprived of assets, thereby diminishing member plaintiffs’ share of Best Equipment’s share of income owed to them by virtue of their membership interest.  Because members of the LLC hold no direct ownership interest in the company’s assets (Corp. Code §17300), the members cannot be directly injured when the company is improperly deprived of assets.  Thus, any injury to member plaintiffs was incidental to the injury suffered by Best Equipment.  “[T]he principles of derivative lawsuits applicable to corporations likewise apply to a limited liability company.”  PacLink Communications Intern., Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal. App. 4th 958, 963.  “Members in an LLC have limited liability for the company’s debts and obligations, and members hold no direct ownership interest in the company’s specific property.”  Swart Enterprises, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2017) 7 Cal. App. 5th 497, 510.  “When a derivative suit is brought to litigate the rights of the corporation, the corporation is an indispensable party and must be joined as a nominal defendant.”  Grosset v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal. 4th 1100, 1108.The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the member plaintiffs. Third cause of action for conversionA cause of action for conversion requires the following elements:  (1) plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages.  Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal. App. 4th 97, 119. “ It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to his own use.”  Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association(2003) 114 Cal. App. 4th 208, 221. “Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.  A generalized claim for money is not actionable as conversion.”  PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro LLP (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 384, 395. The SAC alleges that Best Equipment was and is the lawful owner of the phone number, the funds and accounts receivables, the website content, the cranes, vehicles, and equipment, the fuel, and other valuable assets put into S&P’s and Steel Erection’s locked storage container.  SAC, ¶48.  Defendants intentionally took possession of and/or prevented Best Equipment from having access to the personal property for a significant time after Best Equipment, acting through the member plaintiffs, demanded its return.  Id., ¶49.Defendants argue that because the “assets” that were allegedly converted belonged to Best Equipment, member plaintiffs cannot establish the threshold requirement of right to possession.  Defendants also argue that the claim fails as to them because the “specific allegations reveal that it was Torgerson, not Moving Defendants that allegedly took possession of the property.”  Defendants also assert that to the extent that plaintiffs seek damages for conversion of monies, the SAC fails to allege a specific identifiable sum.  Defendants also contend that plaintiffs do not allege that moving defendants actually interfered with plaintiffs’ right to possession of the cranes, vehicles, and equipment, only that they were used without consent.  As to the storage unit, defendants argue that plaintiffs cannot assert a claim for conversion of unknown property.  In opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient, including that defendants applied the property to their own use and wrongfully exerted dominion over them.The Court finds that the allegations are sufficient as they meet the elements, including Best Equipment’s ownership or right to possession of personal property, defendants’ disposition of the property inconsistent with Best Equipment’s rights, and resulting damages.  The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action. Fifth cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relationshipsThe elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”  I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal. App. 4th 257, 289.The SAC alleges that plaintiffs were parties to valid contracts, i.e., (a) the Operating Agreement, existing between plaintiffs and Torgerson and (b) crane, equipment, and fuel service agreements, existed between Best Equipment and its customers.  SAC, ¶60.  Defendants had actual knowledge of both the Operating Agreement and the Service Agreements.  Id., ¶61.  The acts described taken by defendants were intentional acts designed to induce breach or disruption of the contractual relationships created by the Operating Agreement and the Service Agreements.  Id., ¶62.  There has been an actual breach of both agreements.  Id., ¶63.Defendants argue that the allegations are vague and conclusory as to which contracts moving defendants are supposed to have interfered, and who were the parties and what were the terms.  Defendants also contend that the specific allegations are against Torgerson, and that the SAC does not allege what conduct moving defendants engaged in that was wrongful.In opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient.The Court desired to hear argument by the parties.  What contracts with third parties are alleged?  The allegations appear to be lacking in sufficient clarity to provide notice as to what contract(s) are implicated.  ARGUE. Sixth cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic relationsA cause of action for intentional interference with prospective business advantage requires an (1) economic relationship existing between the plaintiff and third party; (2) probability of future benefit to plaintiffs; (3) defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (4) defendant’s intentional acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (5) defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act in disrupting the relationship beyond just inducing disruption of economic advantage; (6) actual disruption of the relationship; and (7) economic harm to the plaintiffs caused by the actions.  Salma v. Capon(2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 1275, 1290. “[A] plaintiff seeking to recover for alleged interference with prospective economic relations has the burden of pleading and proving that the defendant’s interference was wrongful 'by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself.'"  Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 392-393, fn. omitted; Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1158-1159.  For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be “unlawful, that is, . . . it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” Korea Supply Co., supra, at 1159.The SAC alleges that Best Equipment and its customers were in an economic relationship that probably would have resulted in an economic benefit to Best Equipment.  SAC, ¶69.  Defendants had actual knowledge of Best Equipment’s economic relationships with its customers.  Id., ¶70.  Defendants’ conduct was wrongful.  Id., ¶71.  Defendants intended to disrupt Best Equipment’s economic relationship with its customers and/or knew that disruption of the relationships were certain or substantially certain to occur.  Id., ¶72.  Best Equipment’s relationships with its customers have been disrupted in that Best Equipment is not receiving payment for the use of its cranes, vehicles, equipment, and fuel that is being provided to its customers by defendants and those customers are instead making payments to defendants or others who are using Best Equipment’s fictitious business name and assets.  Id., ¶73.Defendants argue that the SAC does not allege some prospect for future economic rewards or the identities of any of Best Equipment’s purported customers or the term of any of its service agreements.In opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient.Like the Sixth Cause of Action the Court invites argument and clarity.ARGUE. Seventh cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic relations“The elements of negligent interference with prospective economic advantage are (1) the existence of an economic relationship between the plaintiff and a third party containing the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) the defendant’s knowledge (actual or construed) that the relationship would be disrupted if the defendant failed to act with reasonable care; (4) the defendant’s failure to act with reasonable care; (5) actual disruption of the relationship; and (6) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s negligence.”  Redfearn v. Trader Joe’s Co. (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 989, 1005.The allegations are the same as under the sixth cause of action.Defendants argue that the FAC does not allege that moving defendants owed plaintiff a duty of care.In opposition, plaintiffs argue that even as competitors, defendants owed plaintiffs a duty of care not to act improperly or illegally.ARGUE. Eighth cause of action for violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §17200The purpose of the Unfair Business Practices Act (Bus. & Prof. Code §17000, et. seq.) is to “safeguard the public against the creation or perpetuation of monopolies and to foster and encourage competition, by prohibiting unfair, dishonest, deceptive, destructive, fraudulent and discriminatory practices by which fair and honest competition is destroyed or prevented.”  Bus. & Prof. Code §17001.  The Unfair Business Practices Act shall include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”  Bus. & Prof. Code §17200.  The Unfair Business Practices Act is a tool with which to enjoin deceptive or sharp practices.  Samura v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal. App. 4th 1284, 1299, fn. 6.  A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.  Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 612, 619.   Defendants argue that there are no specific allegations of wrongdoing by any of the moving defendants.In opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient in that they allege a fraudulent practice engaged in by defendants by misrepresenting to the public that consumers are leasing and purchasing from Best Equipment.The Court finds that the allegations are sufficient as to underlying wrongful conduct.The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the eighth cause of action. Motion to Strike            Although plaintiffs filed an opposition to a motion to strike, no motion to strike was filed._______________________________            Demurrers to FACCCross-defendant Jonathan Nguyen demurs to the first cause of action on the ground that it fails to allege whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct and to the second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. Cross-defendants Victor O’Mara, JN Builds, Inc., and Best Equipment Services, LLC demur to the first cause of action on the ground that it fails to allege whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct and to the second and third causes of action on the ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.The FACC alleges that in 2020, cross-complainant Torgerson had started a profitable fuel business for boats under his business Best Equipment Services, LLC.  FACC, ¶9.  At about the same time period, Torgerson fully intended and was in the planning stages to start back up his crane business.  He had been in the crane business for about twenty years and had an extensive book of business and clients, which he valued as a substantial asset and kept confidential to him for his use only.  Id., ¶10.  Cross-defendants O’Mara and Nguyen approached Torgerson regarding partnering up with him in his crane business and fuel business.  Id., ¶11.  At the time, Torgerson owned a 100% interest in Best Equipment.  Id., ¶12. O’Mara and Nguyen (who is an attorney licensed in California) approached Torgerson and expressed a desire to partner up in Best Equipment in both the fuel and crane businesses.  Id., ¶13.  The FACC also alleges that in inducing Torgerson to allow them to receive a stake in Best Equipment, O’Mara and Nguyen made the following representations and agreement was reached that cross-defendants would deliver on the promises below for 80% of Best Equipment’s equity and promise from Torgerson to loyally work hard and use his “trade secrets” to advance the business (“contract”):  a. cross-defendants would pay Torgerson a starting salary of $10,000 a month plus benefits; b. cross-defendants would inject up to $2 million in investment to advance the businesses by acquiring cranes and other equipment necessary to run Best’s business; c. cross-defendants would pay all of the business operating expenses including payroll, rent, and other expenses until Best became cash flow positive; d. Torgerson did not need an attorney and could rely on Nguyen for all legal advice and protection; e. Nguyen would handle all of the legal affairs as well as performing other administrative tasks for Best; f. cross-defendants would protect and honor Torgerson’s “trade secret” and would never divulge it to other parties; g. cross-defendants would not “poach” any of Torgerson’s employees; h. cross-defendants would be the controlling interest and would protect Torgerson’s minority rights and would discharge their fiduciary duties to Best and Torgerson in a competent manner.  Id., ¶14.  The representations were false and cross-defendants knew they were false when they made them.  Id., ¶15.The FACC further alleges that cross-defendants’ conduct was different as set forth below (“bad acts”):  a. cross-defendants did not inject up to $2 million of their funds; they borrowed funds at high interest rate from lenders, and required Best to pay for the finance cost, severely straining its ability to survive and grow; b. cross-defendants took all of Torgerson’s attention from his fuel business, did not provide the means to promote the fuel business, and killed that business; c. cross-defendants usurped full control over Best by way of having 80% of the equity, and unilaterally stopped funding the expenses; d. cross-defendants then abruptly took possession of Best’s equipment; e. cross-defendants sold Best’s equipment despite the fact that Best had paid off part of the debt and was entitled to equity; f. cross-defendants communicated to Best’s customers that Torgerson was “out of business”; g. cross-defendants took one of Best’s cranes and sold them to a competitor and provided the competitor with the “trade secretes” and poached an employee to go to work for the competitor; h. cross-defendants then completely separated themselves from Torgerson and told them that the partnership was over and terminated; i. cross-defendants placed their self-interest ahead of Torgerson and usurped the control as a fiduciary to their own advantage and to Torgerson’s detriment; j. Nguyen assured Torgerson that he would have his back and that Torgerson can trust this group, their representations, their intentions, their new legal organization of Best as well as other legal and contractual matter.  Id., ¶16.First cause of action for breach of contractCross-defendants contend that the FACC does not allege whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.            The demurrers are SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as the FACC does not allege whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.  See CCP §430.10(g).Second cause of action for intentional misrepresentationThe elements of fraud are:  (1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages.  See Civil Code §1709.  A fraud claim must be pled with specificity.  Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 821, 837.  “The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  Cansino v. Bank of America(2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1469.Cross-defendants argue that cross-complainant fails to plead with particularity and does not allege justifiable reliance or any damages.The Court finds that the allegations are insufficient.  The allegations are conclusory and cross-complainant fails to allege with particularity.  Further, the claim does not allege damages or facts showing justifiable reliance.The demurrers are SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Third cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic relationsA cause of action for intentional interference with prospective business advantage requires an (1) economic relationship existing between the plaintiff and third party; (2) probability of future benefit to plaintiffs; (3) defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (4) defendant’s intentional acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (5) defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act in disrupting the relationship beyond just inducing disruption of economic advantage; (6) actual disruption of the relationship; and (7) economic harm to the plaintiffs caused by the actions.  Salma v. Capon(2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 1275, 1290. “[A] plaintiff seeking to recover for alleged interference with prospective economic relations has the burden of pleading and proving that the defendant’s interference was wrongful 'by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself.'"  Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 392-393, fn. omitted; Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1158-1159.  For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be “unlawful, that is, . . . it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” Korea Supply Co., supra, at 1159.Cross-defendants argue that the allegations are insufficient because the FACC fails to allege that they had any knowledge of a relationship between Torgerson and some third party that would provide future economic benefit to Torgerson.  Further, they contend, none of the conduct alleged under paragraph 16 is separately actionable or constitutes a violation of law or unethical business practices.The Court finds that the allegations are insufficient to meet the elements for the reasons stated by cross-defendants.The demurrers are SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.Fifth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty“To establish a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must demonstrate the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of that duty and damages.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal. App. 4th 170, 182.  “A fiduciary relationship is any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party.  Such a relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the latter's knowledge or consent . . . .”  Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 625, 29-30 (citation omitted) (internal quotations omitted).“An action against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional services shall be commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.”  CCP §340.6(a); see also Stoll v. Superior Court (1992) 9 Cal. App. 4th 1362, 1366 (CCP §340.6 applies to action for breach of fiduciary duty).The FACC alleges that a fiduciary relationship existed where Nguyen acted as the attorney for Torgerson and made representations set forth above.  FACC, ¶39.  Based on Nguyen representations, Torgerson relied on him being his attorney and relinquished control over his business, business plans, trade secrets, books, and records.  Id., ¶40.  Nguyen breached his fiduciary duties and as a result Torgerson was harmed.  Id., ¶41.Cross-defendant Nguyen argues that the claim is time-barred by the one-year statute of limitations as it alleges that Nguyen provided legal services to Torgerson in 2020.  Nguyen also argues that the FACC fails to allege ultimate facts.  The Court finds that the allegations are insufficient, and the claim appears to be barred by the one-year statute of limitations. The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.Sixth cause of action for professional negligence“The elements of a cause of action in tort for professional negligence are (1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.”  Budd v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195, 200.  An attorney’s duty to his or her client depends not only on the existence of the attorney-client relationship but also on the scope of the representation.  Nichols v. Keller (1993) 15 Cal. App. 4th 1672, 1684. The FACC alleges that a fiduciary relationship existed where Nguyen acted as the attorney for Torgerson and discharged these duties in a negligent manner to Torgerson’s harm and detriment.  FACC, ¶43.  Based on Nguyen representations, Torgerson relied on him being his attorney and relinquished control over his business, business plans, trade secrets, books, and records.  Id., ¶44.  Nguyen breached his fiduciary duties and as a result Torgerson was harmed.  Id., ¶45.Cross-defendant Nguyen argues that the claim is time-barred by the one-year statute of limitations as it alleges that Nguyen provided legal services to Torgerson in 2020.  Nguyen also argues that the FACC fails to allege ultimate facts.  Nguyen contends that the allegations are insufficient as to the existence of an attorney-client relationship.The Court finds that the allegations are insufficient, and the claim appears to be barred by the one-year statute of limitations.  See CCP §340.6, and under the fifth cause of action.The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. ORDERAs to the Second Amended Complaint, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to individual plaintiffs as to the third, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action in the SAC.  The demurrer is OVERRULED as to plaintiff Best Equipment as to the third and eighth causes of action.The Court desires to hear argument as to the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action.There is no ruling on a motion to strike.The demurrers to the FACC are SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action.Plaintiffs and cross-defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling.