 Case Number:  24CHCV02465    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  1 Background
 
On July 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs John Doe MT, John Doe ID, John Doe NO, John Doe BL, John Doe RE,
John Doe TV, John Doe JD, John Doe DB, and John Doe PS filed this action
against the County of Los Angeles arising out of alleged childhood sexual
assaults that occurred at Barry J. Nidorf Juvenile Hall. 
 
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
On November
21, 2024, J. Kyle Gaines of Slater, Slater, Schulman, LLP filed the instant
motion seeking to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff John Doe NO.
 
Standard 
 
The court may
order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after
judgment or final determination upon request by either client or attorney and
after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) Further, under such
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, the motion should be
granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does
not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez
v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
“A notice of
motion and motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(2) must be directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (form MC-051).” (Cal. R. Ct.
3.1362(a).) “Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no memorandum is required
to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as counsel.” (Cal. R. Ct.
3.1362(b).) “The motion to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a
declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel—Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. R. Ct.
3.1362(c).)
 
“The notice of
motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice
may be by personal service or mail. If the notice is served on the client by
mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: (1) The service address is the
current residence or business address of the client; or (2) The service address
is the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.
As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was confirmed within 30
days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that
the notice was sent to the client's last known address and was not returned is
not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the
service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies.” (Cal. R.
Ct. 3.1362(d).)
 
“The proposed
order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with
the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all hearing dates
scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known.
If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify
the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order
must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.
The court may delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until
proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed
with the court.” (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1362(e).)
 
Discussion 
 
Counsel
seeks to be relieved because “[i]t has become unreasonably difficult for this
office to carry out Plaintiff’s representation effectively under CRPC
1.16(b)(4).” (Gaines Decl. ¶ 2.) Accordingly, counsel stated a proper basis for
withdrawal. (Cal. R. Prof. Cond., rule 1.16(b)(4).) 
 
However,
counsel failed to demonstrate proper service of the motion. The motion is not
accompanied by a separate proof of service and counsel failed to timely file a
proof of service. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1300(c) (“Proof of service of the moving
papers must be filed no later than five court days before the time appointed
for the hearing.”).) 
 
The
accompanying declaration states “[a]ttorney has . . . served the client
by mail at the client's last known address with copies of the motion papers
served with this declaration.” (Gaines Decl. ¶ 3(a)(2).) This is not a
sufficient proof of service by mail as it does not contain any of the
information or language required by statute. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1013a.)
Moreover, when service is attempted by mail in connection with a motion to be
relieved, “Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.1362(d).) If, as here, the client’s address is known, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1011(b) requires an attempt at personal service before service by mail
is authorized. Counsel failed to provide a declaration demonstrating an attempt
at personal service and therefore has not established compliance with Code of
Civil Procedure section 1011(b). 
 
The
motion is therefore taken OFF-CALENDAR. 
 
Conclusion
 
J.
Kyle Gaines of Slater, Slater, Schulman, LLP’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
for Plaintiff John Doe NO is taken OFF-CALENDAR.
 
Clerk
to give notice. 