 Case Number:  24NWCV00099    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  1 Background
 
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff Alex Yu, Jr.
filed this action against Defendant Maya Elizabeth Burrell Marrero asserting a
single cause of action for negligence arising out of an automobile collision on
Interstate 105. 
 
On August 21, 2024, the parties submitted a
stipulation to transfer this action to the Torrance Courthouse. However, the
clerk issued a Notice of Rejection of Electronic Filing noting, as the reason
for rejection, “Other - cannot transfer by stipulation and order; file
motion in Department 1.”
 
Motion 
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to transfer this action to the Torrance Courthouse. 
 
The motion is unopposed, (Code Civ. Proc. §
1005), and the parties stipulated to the transfer.
 
Motion to Transfer Between Districts
 
Standard
 
LASC
Local Rules, rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases
from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated
grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the
convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of
justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the Local Rules is
discretionary. 
 
Because
the same language appears in both LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) and Code of Civil Procedure section 397(c), Department 1 applies the
case authority related to Section 397. Accordingly, a party acting under the
authority of Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) bears the same
burden of proof if it seeks a district transfer. (See Lieberman v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 396, 401.) That
burden of proof calls for affidavits that contain more than generalities and
conclusions. (See Hamilton v Superior Court (1974) 37 Cal.
App.3d 418, 424.) Convenience to non-party witnesses alone is the key to the
success of the motion, and not the convenience of parties or employees of
parties. (See Stute v. Burinda (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d Supp. 11, 17.)
 
The Case was Filed in an Incorrect
District
 
Defendant
seeks to transfer this action from the Norwalk Courthouse in the Southeast
District to the Torrance Courthouse in the Southwest District. Defendant
contends the case was filed in an incorrect district under the applicable local
rules. 
 
In “Step 4” of the civil case cover sheet
addendum where the filing party is asked to “[c]heck the appropriate
boxes for the numbers shown under Column C for the type of action that you have
selected. Enter the address, which is the basis for the filing location
including zip code,” Plaintiffs
selected Reason 4, which corresponds to “Location where bodily injury,
death or damage occurred” and listed
the relevant address as “on or around the 105 freeway on or around the city of
Downey, Downey, CA 90242.”
 
However,
the parties stipulated that the collision occurred “just after the Sofi/Forum
exit sign on the 105 freeway placing the accident within the Torrance
District.” (Cox Decl. Ex. D.) The parties made this determination based upon
dash cam footage, (Id. ¶ 3, Ex. C), and the map of the Southwest Judicial
District in Appendix 2.A of the Los Angeles County Rules of Court. Pursuant to
Local Rule 2.3(A)(1)(A), “[e]very
unlimited civil tort action for bodily injury, wrongful death, or damage to
personal property (hereinafter referred to as ‘Personal Injury Action’) must be
filed in the judicial district where the incident arose.”
 
Defendant
demonstrated the action was filed in an improper district and the motion is
GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s
Motion for Order Transferring Case to Proper District of the Los Angeles County
Superior Court per Stipulation of the Parties is GRANTED and 24NWCV00099 is
ordered reassigned to the Torrance Courthouse in the Southwest District of the
Los Angeles Superior Court. 
 
Notice of case reassignment shall issue shortly. 
 
Clerk to give notice. 