  Case Number:  19STCV03095    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No. 
Chen, et. al. vs.
Li, et. al., Case No. 19STCV03095
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Cross-complainant’s Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses
 
Cross-Complainant Gerardo Lopez
(Lopez) moves for an order compelling Cross-Defendant Freedom Forever, LLC
(Freedom Forever) to produce further responses to Request Nos. 23 and 24 in the
Requests for Production (Set Four). The motion is granted.  Freedom Forever is ordered to provide a
supplemental verified response and responsive documents to Lopez within fifteen
(15) days of today’s date.
 
A party may move for an order
compelling further response to a request for production of documents if the
demanding party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or contains
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a).)  A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
“For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.’
[Citation]. Admissibility is not the test and information, unless
privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.
[Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery.” (Gonzales
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
 
Lopez’s First Amended
Cross-Complaint alleges that Lopez purchased residential solar panels, or a
photovoltaic system (PVS), from Freedom Forever in July 2017. (FACC ¶¶ 11-13.)
Freedom Forever provided Lopez with a warranty which guaranteed the amount of
energy production from the PVS. (FACC ¶ 17.) However, the Purchase Agreement
for the PVS allegedly contained a provision stating that Freedom Forever “can
unilaterally reduce the guarantee if the PVS fails to produce the amount of
energy guaranteed” (the “Escape Clause”). (FACC ¶ 17.) Lopez requests
declaratory relief finding the Escape Clause and other provisions in the
Purchase Agreement unlawful, void, and unenforceable pursuant to the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) and Song-Beverly Act. (FACC ¶ 38.) Lopez also seeks
to enjoin Freedom Forever from using contracts that contain the Escape Clause
and other allegedly unlawful provisions. (FAC ¶ 39.)
 
Lopez served the Requests for Production
of Documents (Set Four) on Freedom Forever on December 21, 2022. (Valdez Jr.
Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) The two Requests at issue are as follows:
Request No. 23: “The templates for all SOLAR AGREEMENTS YOU
have used from January 1, 2017 to present.”
Request No. 24: “The templates for
all performance guarantees YOU have included in any SOLAR AGREEMENT from
January 1, 2017 to present.”
 
            Freedom
Forever served responses on January 31, 2023, objecting to both Nos. 23 and 24
as irrelevant, overbroad, unduly burdensome, and harassing, “in that [the
request] is not reasonably limited in scope or time and seeks every template
over a 5 year period, regardless of the connection to Plaintiff’s contract.”
(Valdez Jr. Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) For No. 24, Freedom Forever also objected to the
term “performance guarantee” as vague and ambiguous.
 
The requested templates are
relevant to Lopez’s claim for public injunctive relief under the CLRA. (FACC ¶
39, Prayer 1(f).) An individual who brings a private action under the CLRA may
obtain related public injunctive relief without complying with the procedural
requirements for representative actions. (McGill
v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 959-60.) Freedom Forever has
presented no evidence showing that the number of responsive templates is so
great that production would be unduly burdensome. The Court also disagrees that
Request No. 24 is vague or ambiguous; as Lopez points out, the term
“performance guarantee” is taken from the parties’ contract. (Valdez Jr. Decl.
¶ 7, Ex. 4 [40].) Accordingly, the motion is granted. 
 