  Case Number:  24AVCV00202    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a medical negligence
action. Plaintiffs Jessica Maggio (“Jessica”)[1]
and Mario Maggio (“Mario” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that Defendants
Neurospine Institute; Bhargav Mudda, M.D. (“Dr. Mudda”); and Doddanna Krishna,
M.D., negligently performed medical procedures on Jessica including, but not
limited to, a left splanchnic nerve radiofrequency ablation, and subsequent
follow up medical services, which caused a punctured lung and pneumothorax and
further resulting and related injuries which necessitated multiple subsequent
medical procedures. 
 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging four causes of action for: (1) Medical
Negligence by Plaintiffs against all defendants; (2) Battery by Jessica against
Dr. Mudda and Neurospine Institute; (3) Fraud – Intentional Concealment by
Jessica against all defendants; and (4) Loss of Consortium by Plaintiffs
against all defendants.
 
On August 01, 2024, Dr. Mudda
filed this Demurrer with Motion to Strike. 
 
On August 14, 2024, Dr. Kamran
Parsa, Inc. dba Neurospine Institute, erroneously sued as Neurospine Institute
(“Neurospine”) filed its Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
No Opposition has been filed. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
-----¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and
435.5.) It appears from Renei A. Caballes (“Caballes”)’ declaration that the
requirement has been attempted; however, Plaintiffs failed to repond to the
meet and confer request. (See Demurrer and Motion to Strike at Decl. Caballes
at ¶¶ 3-4; see also Cal. Civ. Code §§ 430.1(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)  
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
i.       
Demurrer
 
Dr. Mudda demurs to the Second
Cause of Action (Battery) and Third Cause of Action (Fraud – Intentional
Concealment).
 
a.      Second
Cause of Action (Battery)
 
Dr. Mudda argues that the claim
for battery is uncertain and unclear as it lacks factual allegations addressing
the procedure consented to and any description as to what was not consented to.
Dr. Mudda emphasizes that the allegations make clear that at least one medical
procedure was consented. Dr. Mudda highlights the following language: “[d]espite
knowing this, and without the patient’s consent to continue, Mudda continued on
with his procedure and performed a second left splanchnic radiofrequency
ablation at the T12 level. . . . If Jessica Maggio had known the lung had been punctured,
she would not have consented to any further treatment from Mudda, including a
second left splanchnic radiofrequency ablation at the T123 level.” (Opp. 5:11-15
[citing Complaint at p. 6 ¶ 4]) and argues that, based on the word choice, the
Complaint is alleging that the patient consented to the procedure initially,
but when an unknown complication arose, purportedly not disclosed, Jessica
would have revoked consent. Dr. Mudda argues that because of the word choice,
the claim is one for negligence and is duplicative of Plaintiff’s First Cause
of Action (Medical Negligence). Dr. Mudda further argues that due to these
allegations, the elements of battery cannot be met. 
 
“The essential elements of a
cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused
plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2)
plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended
by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position
would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 669.) In the context of medical battery, a patient may place
conditions on the doctor’s authority to perform an operation and a violation of
these conditions may lead to liability for battery. (Conte v. Girard
Orthopaedic Surgeons Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1269
(“Conte”).) “[t]here are three elements to a claim for medical battery
under a violation of conditional consent: the patient must show his consent was
conditional; the doctor intentionally violated the condition while providing
treatment; and the patient suffered harm as a result of the doctor's violation
of the condition.” (Ibid.)
 
The battery claim reads, in
relevant part:
 
Defendant Bhargav
Mudda performed a medical procedure without Jessica Maggio's consent. Jessica
Maggio consented to one medical procedure, but Defendant Bhargav Mudda
performed a substantially different medical procedure. Plaintiffs were harmed[.]
 
Defendant Bhargav
Mudda touched Jessica Maggio and caused Jessica Maggio to be touched with the
intent to harm or offend her. Jessica Maggio did not consent to the touching.
Plaintiffs were harmed and offended by Defendant Bhargav Mudda's conduct. A
reasonable person in Jessica Maggio's situation would have been offended by the
touching.
 
Bhargav Mudda[]
attempted a two level left splanchnic radiofrequency ablation, which he was
able to visualize internal to Jessica Maggio's body by way of fluoroscopic
imaging in real time. Mudda began at the T11 level of the spine. He performed
the procedure negligently and thereby punctured Jessica Maggio's lung resulting
in a pneumothorax. Jessica Maggio complained of pain, and the pneumothorax was
visible in real time on the fluoroscopic imaging, and Mudda knew that he had
punctured the lung and caused a pneumothorax as it was happening. Despite
knowing this, and without the patient's consent to continue, Mudda continued on
with his procedure and performed a second left splanchnic radiofrequency
ablation at the T12 level. After the lung was punctured Mudda should have
stopped the procedure and immediately transferred the patient to the hospital,
which he did not do. If Jessica Maggio had known the lung had been punctured
she would not have consented to any further treatment from Mudda, including a second
left splanchnic radiofrequency ablation at the T12 level.
 
(Complaint at Cause of Action –
Intentional Tort Battery Attachment) 
 
As alleged, Jessica first states
that she consented to one medical procedure, but received another. However,
there is no description of each procedure in the first paragraph. The second
paragraph appears to be an attempt to allege battery outside of the medical
context. The final paragraph highlighted by the Court provides the most detail.
It appears from this paragraph that Jessica is alleging that she consented to a
two-level left splanchnic radiofrequency ablation; an issue occurred whereby Dr.
Mudda punctured Jessica’s lung; Jessica was awake during the procedure, as she
complained of pain, and was not informed of the issue; and Mudda continued with
the procedure and performed a second left splanchnic radiofrequency at the T12
level. 
 
Patently, Plaintiffs’ battery
claim is within the medical context. It appears at issue is Plaintiff’s consent
due to the first paragraph. Thus, Jessica must show her consent was
conditional; the doctor intentionally violated the condition while providing
treatment; and the patient suffered harm as a result of the doctor's violation
of the condition. (See Conte, supra, 107 Cal.App.4th at 1269; see
also Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229 [“Where a doctor obtains consent
of the patient to perform one type of treatment and subsequently performs a
substantially different treatment for which consent was not obtained, there is
a clear case of battery. [Citations.]”].) 
 
Here, there are no allegations of
what conditions Jessica placed on Dr. Mudda and, as such, there is a defect on
the pleadings. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer for the
Second Cause of Action (Battery) is SUSTAINED.
 
b.      Third
Cause of Action (Fraud – Intentional Concealment)
 
Dr. Mudda argues that the
Complaint fails to allege a claim for intentional concealment with the
requisite particularity. Specifically, Dr. Mudda presents that there are no
allegations regarding a duty to disclose the alleged material fact to the
patient and the allegation that Dr. Mudda concealed or suppressed material
facts "by telling plaintiff other facts to mislead plaintiff and prevent
plaintiff from discovering the concealed or suppressed facts” at page seven,
paragraph FR-3b, contains no allegations as to what was said to the patient,
when, and where. 
 
“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of
falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) For a
cause of action for fraudulent concealment to be actionable, there generally
must exist a fiduciary relationship between the parties. (Fink v. Weisman
(1933), 132 Cal.App. 724, 730.) In addition, courts have found other
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) possession of exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the
plaintiff; (2) active concealment of a material fact from the plaintiff; or (3)
when partial representations are made but a material fact is withheld. (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Fraud-based claims are subject
to strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee on
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216.) To advance a cognizable fraud claim, “every element of the cause of
action. . .must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the policy
of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to sustain a
fraud claim deficient in any material respect." (Wilhelm v. Pray,
Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)
"Concealment is a species of fraud, and '[f]raud must be pleaded with
specificity.'" (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878.) The particularity requirement demands that a
plaintiff plead facts which “ ‘ “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” ’ ” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Less specificity in pleading fraud is required
“when ‘it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy. .
.’ ” (Committee on Children's Television, Inc., supra, 35 Cal.3d at
217.)
 
The pleadings state that
Defendant concealed or material facts that defendant was bound to disclose and
by telling Jessica other facts to mislead her and prevent her from discovering
the concealed or suppressed facts. (See Complaint, Cause of Action – Fraud
Attachment at FR-3(b).) The method of suppression is stated to be as alleged in
Attachment FR-3. (Id. at Cause of Action – Fraud Attachment at FR-3(a).)
The attachment reads:
 
Jessica Maggio's
pneumothorax was visible in real time during the procedure, which fact was
known to Defendant Bhargav Mudda. Despite his knowledge of this fact, Mudda
intentionally concealed and did not disclose this fact to his patient Jessica
Maggio. 
 
After the Plaintiff
was transferred to the emergency room, she was assigned to Doddanna Krishna,
MD., who knew that Jessica Maggio had a punctured lung and a pneumothorax
because he was in contact with Dr. Mudda by telephone and he saw his own
radiographic imaging which plainly and clearly showed a pneumothorax. Despite
this knowledge, Krishna intentionally concealed and did not disclose this fact,
and in fact denied its existence, for a significant amount of time, resulting
in further injuries to Plaintiffs.
 
(Id. at Attachment FR-3.)
 
The allegations pertaining to Dr.
Mudda are found within the first paragraph. As alleged, Dr. Mudda did not
disclose that Jessica had a pneumothorax. Though less specificity in pleading
fraud is required when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy and this may be a case were Dr. Mudda possesses full information,
the Complaint is not specific enough to provide the Court with the ability to
make such an inference. Specifically, Jessica was awake during the operation
where the alleged incident occurred and there is no description as to how the
concealment occurred. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer for the
Fourth Cause of Action (Fraud – Intentional Concealment) is SUSTAINED.
 
ii.     
Motion to Strike
 
Dr. Mudda seeks to strike
punitive damages from the Complaint under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13,
arguing that it applies to provisions of medical services and has a broad
application.
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13
governs a claim for punitive damages in “any action for damages arising out of
the professional negligence of a health care provider.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
425.13(a).) Dr. Mudda is a provider within the meaning of Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 425.13 as the statute defines “health care provider” by reference to several
licensing statutes, including persons licensed “pursuant to Division 2 … of the
Business and Professions Code,” and “any clinic … or health facility, licensed
pursuant to Division 2 … of the Health and Safety Code.” (Id. at (b).) Article
3 of chapter 5 of division 2 of the Business and Professions Code prescribes
the licensing requirements for physicians and surgeons. (Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code § 2050 et seq.) Article 2.5 of chapter 1 of division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code prescribes the licensing requirements for clinics (Cal. Health
& Saf. Code § 1221 et seq.) and article 1 of chapter 2 of division 2
of the Health and Safety Code governs licensing of health facilities (Id.
at § 1250 et seq.). The Complaint alleges that Dr. Mudda is a doctor of
medicine, worked for Neurospine, and performed medical care on Jessica. Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 435.13(a) provides:
 
In any action for
damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider,
no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other
pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that
includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the
filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the
party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294 of the Civil Code. The court shall not grant a motion allowing
the filing of an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages if
the motion for such an order is not filed within two years after the complaint
or initial pleading is filed or not less than nine months before the date the
matter is first set for trial, whichever is earlier.
 
Thus, it appears that Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.13 bars punitive damages from this Complaint unless Plaintiffs
make a motion, within two years after the Complaint was filed and not less that
nine months before the date the matter is first set for trial, and establishes
that there is a substantial probability that they will prevail on the claim
under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 3294. Plaintiff has not done so. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is GRANTED.
 
----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿ 
 
Here there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment as the deficiencies within the Complaint are related to specificity
and/or lack of factual allegations.
 
The Court allows leave to amend for the
Demurrer. 
 
As the Motion to Strike focuses on
punitive damages which are governed by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
425.13 in this action, Plaintiff must follow Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13 and
so the Court does not allow leave to amend for the Motion to Strike.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Bhargav Mudda, M.S.’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Defendant Bhargav Mudda, M.S.’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs Jessica Maggio and Mario Maggio are to file
an amended pleading by December 12, 2024, after the Demurrer scheduled by
Defendant Dr. Kamran Parsa, Inc. dba Neurospine Institute is heard by the
Court.


