 Case Number:  24STCV06022    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
            



GREGORY MARX, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WEST HILLS HOSPITAL, a California corporation which does
  business as WEST HILLS HOSPITAL & MEDICAL CENTER, et al. 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 24STCV06022 




Hearing Date:


June 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
SPECIAL MOTION
  TO STRIKE (C.C.P. §425.16) OF DEFENDANT WEST
  HILLS HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL CENTER AND REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY FEES



 
Background 
Plaintiff Gregory Marx (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action on March 11, 2024 against Defendant West Hills Hospital, a
California corporation which does business as West Hills Hospital & Medical
Center. Plaintiff’s Complaint for False Light (Defamation) alleges one cause of
action for “false light.” 
West Hills Hospital and Medical Center, erroneously
sued as “West Hills Hospital” (“Defendant”) now moves
“pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §425.16
to strike the complaint for ‘False Light (Defamation)’ on the grounds that the
claim arises out of West Hills Hospital’s exercise of the right to free speech
under the State and Federal Constitutions, in a public forum, in connection
with an issue of public interest, and it is not probable that plaintiff will
prevail on his claim.”  Plaintiff
opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Gregory
Marx as follows:  
Objection
No. 1: overruled 
Objection
No. 2: overruled 
Objection
No. 3: sustained
Objection
No. 4: overruled
The
Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Scott
Pike as follows: 
Objection
No. 1: overruled 
Objection
No. 2: overruled
Objection
No. 3: sustained
Objection
No. 4: overruled
Objection
No. 5: overruled  
 The Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Ryan Quigley as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled 
Objection No. 2: overruled 
Objection No 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled 
Objection No. 5: overruled 
Objection No. 6: overruled
Objection No. 7: overruled 
Objection No. 8: overruled 
Objection No. 9: overruled 
Objection No. 10: overruled 
Objection No. 11: overruled 
Objection No. 12: overruled 
The
Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Jon-Jamison
Hill as
follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that he is a Firefighter and Paramedic with the Los
Angeles Fire Department (“LAFD”). (Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that “Mr. Marx and his partner, Scott Pike,
also a Firefighter and Paramedic, responded to an emergency call involving a
female patient (‘Patient’).” (Compl., ¶ 7.) “When Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike arrived
at the scene, several Los Angeles Police Department (‘LAPD’) officers were
already present, and they had restrained the Patient.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike loaded the Patient onto
their gurney and set off for the Hospital,” and “[w]hen they arrived at the
Hospital, Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike took the Patient into the Hospital through the
ambulance bay.” (Compl., ¶¶ 9-10.) “While the Patient was still on LAFD’s
gurney and handcuffed, and despite the fact that the patient remained calm and
well-managed, without Mr. Marx’s consent, the nurses proceeded to administer
the syringes, which Mr. Marx assumed to be a sedative. One of the nurses had a
difficult time administering the syringes. The Patient began to bleed, and when
she saw the blood, she became agitated. The nurses then left Mr. Marx to deal
with the agitated Patient who still was still handcuffed on LAFD’s gurney.”
(Compl., ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]fter the Patient was finally transferred to
a hospital bed, Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike attempted to have a conversation with the
nurse who had attended to the Patient about the unprofessional communication
difficulties and their concerns about the Hospital’s administration of
medication to the patient while she remained restrained on an LAFD gurney,
which unnecessarily created a dangerous situation.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “During the
discussion, Mr. Pike passionately expressed his frustrations about the way the
Hospital handled the patient transfer, as well as other similar experiences he
had with the Hospital. Mr. Pike was, at times, animated with his hands and arms
while relaying his frustrations. However, the discussion ultimately ended relatively
amicably, with Mr. Marx, Mr. Pike and the nurse walking away after a round of
‘fist bumps.’” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[u]nbeknownst to Mr. Marx, Hospital personnel
called the EMS Captain who had oversight for Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike on that
shift. Mr. Marx is informed and believes and, on that basis, alleges, that the
call directly led to an investigation over Mr. Marx’s and Mr. Pike’s conduct.”
(Compl., ¶ 18.) “Separately, Does 1 through 25, who were, at the time relevant
to this action, Hospital staff, created video clips from the security footage
of the exchange and discussion between Mr. Marx, Mr. Pike and the nurse. Does 1
through 25 then showed the video footage to people outside the Hospital,
including several firefighters, some of whom were in Mr. Marx’s station.”
(Compl., ¶ 19.) “One video clip is approximately 10 seconds in length, and it depicts
only a small portion of the exchange between Mr. Marx, Mr. Pike and the nurse
(the ‘Misleading Video Clip’). The Misleading Video Clip is in black and white,
and it has no sound. It appeared to be copied from – either directly or via
cellphone video – the Hospital’s security footage.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Misleading Video Clip only shows Mr.
Marx and Mr. Pike approaching the nurse, with Mr. Pike animatedly shaking his
finger, apparently having words with the nurse while animatedly gesturing with
his arms, and then Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike backing away from the nurse.” (Compl.,
¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “the Hospital’s personnel, specifically Does 1
through 25, publicly released the Misleading Video Clip in a transparent effort
to control the narrative surrounding the incident and to make it appear that
Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike had done something wrong.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he public release of the Short Video Clip
by Hospital personnel has had a profound impact on Mr. Marx and his career,
including significant reputational damage. It, at least in part, led to a
months-long internal department investigation and, even when he is cleared of
any wrongdoing, Mr. Marx will have a permanent blemish on his record.” (Compl.,
¶ 23.) Plaintiff further alleges that “negative publicity from the Misleading
Video Clip will impact other business ventures Mr. Marx has been exploring
outside his job as a firefighter/paramedic with the LAFD.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
B.    Legal Standard 
The anti-SLAPP statute is
“a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of
free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process
and resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal
quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for
determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public
participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether the defendant
has established that the challenged claim arises from protected speech. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
C.    Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the
defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP statute is
that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the defendant in
furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.) 
An act in furtherance of
a person’s right of petition or free speech includes the following:
 
“(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the
allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation
for the claims.” (Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity.” (Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 [emphasis in
original].) In making this
determination, the Court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.) “The anti-SLAPP statute should
be broadly construed and a plaintiff cannot avoid operation of the anti-SLAPP
statute by attempting, through artifices of pleading, to characterize an action
as a garden variety tort claim when in fact the liability claim is predicated
on protected speech or conduct.” (Ramona Unified School Dist. v. Tsiknas (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 510, 519 [internal
citations omitted].)
In the motion, Defendant
argues that the Complaint “falls squarely within the scope of C.C.P. §425.16, subds. (e)(4) ‘public issue’ requirement
because by releasing the video clip of Mr. Marx at West Hills Hospital ER
defendant was ‘further[ing] the public discourse on’ the issue of professional
conduct and ethical behavior for California licensed or certified paramedics.”
(Mot. at p. 10:6-9.) Defendant cites to Yang v. Tenet Healthcare Inc.
(2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 939, 943, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] licensed physician sued other medical entities and
individuals for defamation based on statements made about her qualifications,
competence, and medical ethics. In this anti-SLAPP appeal, we apply our Supreme
Court’s recent opinion in FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify, Inc. (2019)
7 Cal.5th 133 [246 Cal. Rptr. 3d 591, 439 P.3d 1156] (FilmOn), and conclude that the defendants’
conduct arose from protected activity because their allegedly defamatory
statements were made in connection with an issue of public interest.” 
The Yang Court noted that “Section 425.16, subdivision
(e)(4) (subdivision (e)(4)) protects ‘any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of … the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a
public issue or an issue of public interest.’ In FilmOn, our Supreme Court held that
under this provision, ‘a court must consider the context as well as the content
of a statement in determining whether that statement furthers the exercise of
constitutional speech rights in connection with a matter of public
interest.’…Specifically, the inquiry calls for its own two-step analysis:
‘First, we ask what ‘public issue or … issue of public interest’ the speech in
question implicates—a question we answer by looking to the content of the speech…Second,
we ask what functional relationship exists between the speech and the
public conversation about some matter of public interest. It is at the latter
stage that context proves useful.’ We
refer to these as the ‘public issue’ and ‘functional relationship’ steps.” (Yang v. Tenet
Healthcare Inc., supra, 48
Cal.App.5th at pp. 946-947.) The Yang
Court found as follows: 
 
“In this case, the content of the speech, as indicated by
both the allegations in the complaint and the affidavits submitted in opposition
to the motion, show that the public issue implicated is the qualifications,
competence, and professional ethics of a licensed physician. As Yang alleges, defendants told others that she
was not ‘qualified or competent,’ that she ‘rendered care below applicable
standards of practice,’ that her ‘ethics’ were ‘below acceptable standards,’
and that she was ‘dangerous’ to her patients and others. These clearly
implicate Yang’s
qualifications, competence, and professional ethics. Olmos’s statement that hospital
administrators told her Yang was ‘performing surgeries she was not privileged to
perform,’ ‘was potentially incompetent’ to perform certain surgeries, and
‘intentionally trying to deceive the insurance providers and the hospital,’
among other actions, similarly raise these characteristics. Whether or not
a licensed physician is deficient in such characteristics is, we hold, a
public issue.” (Yang v. Tenet Healthcare Inc., supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at p. 947.)

In addition, the Yang
Court found that “Yang’s
allegations that defendants informed her ‘patients’ and the ‘general public’
that she was generally unqualified, as well as Olmos’s statement that the
hospital had directed several doctors to ‘no longer refer patients’ to Yang ‘due to the fact she was suspended and
under investigation for fraud’ demonstrates that defendants directly
participated in and contributed to the public issue. This is so for two
reasons. For one, as Yang alleges, the defamatory statements were communicated to the
public, not just to discrete doctors or hospital staff members. This context is
significant, because speech to the public about a doctor’s qualifications
furthers the public discourse on that matter.” (Yang v. Tenet Healthcare Inc., supra, 48
Cal.App.5th at p. 948.) Defendant argues that here, “[b]y allegedly
releasing the video clip showing Mr. Marx, Mr. Pike and the nurse’s
interactions it ‘further[ed] the public discourse’ on the issue of professional
ethical behavior of California licensed or certified paramedic because the
video clip was ‘communicated to the public, not just to discrete doctors or
hospital staff.’” (Mot. at p. 11:8-11, citing Yang.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant “has failed to
meet its burden to prove the acts depicted in the Misleading Video Clip are a
‘public issue,’…” (Opp’n at p. 11:10-11.) Plaintiff asserts that “[u]nlike the
statements in Yang where the doctor’s skill as a surgeon and her status
as a licensed practitioner eligible to perform surgeries were the issues in
question, which would be concerns for potential patients and the general
public, there are no such facts present in this case. The Misleading Video Clip
at issue in this case is approximately 10 seconds of footage, without audio,
which appear to show an altercation between two paramedics and a nurse…It does
not purport to depict the delivery of medical services or patient care. It does
not bring into question the participants’ professional skill. Simply put,
[Defendant] cannot rely on the mere generalities that the Misleading Video Clip
involves licensed professionals and their ‘ethics’ to transmute the video’s
contents into a ‘public issue.” (Opp’n at pp. 10:23-11:4.) Defendant does not
appear to address this point in the reply. 
Indeed, Defendant does not appear to demonstrate how the alleged
“Misleading Video Clip” shows that Plaintiff was
allegedly “not ‘qualified or competent,’ that [he] ‘rendered care below
applicable standards of practice,’ that [his] ‘ethics’ were ‘below acceptable
standards,’ [or] that [he] was ‘dangerous’ to…patients and others,” as
was alleged in Yang.
(Yang v. Tenet Healthcare Inc., supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at p. 947.)
Rather, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Misleading Video Clip only
shows Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike approaching the nurse, with Mr. Pike animatedly
shaking his finger, apparently having words with the nurse while animatedly
gesturing with his arms, and then Mr. Marx and Mr. Pike backing away from the
nurse.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiff also
asserts that Defendant “does not identify who disseminated the Video Clip,
hindering its ability to prove it was released to stimulate ‘public
conversation.’” (Opp’n at p. 13:1-3.) As set forth above, the Yang Court
noted that “[f]irst, we ask what ‘public issue or … issue of public interest’
the speech in question implicates—a question we answer by looking to the
content of the speech…Second, we ask what functional relationship exists
between the speech and the public conversation about some matter of public
interest.” (Yang v. Tenet Healthcare Inc., supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at p. 947.)
The Yang Court further noted that “[r]egarding functional
relationship, FilmOn stated that subdivision
(e)(4) ‘demands ‘some degree of closeness’ between the challenged statements
and the asserted public interest.’…As the court stated, ‘it is not enough that
the statement refer to a subject of widespread public interest; the statement
must in some manner itself contribute to the public debate.’…‘What it means to
‘contribute to the public debate’…will perhaps differ based on the state of
public discourse at a given time, and the topic of contention’ but ultimately
‘we examine whether a defendant—through public or private speech or
conduct—participated in, or furthered, the discourse that makes an issue one of
public interest.’” (Id. at
p. 948.) 
Here,
Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he Hospital does not identify who
disseminated the Misleading Video Clip. In fact, the Hospital argues that its
staff did not circulate the clip, because there was no official release of any
security footage.” (Opp’n at p. 13:4-6.) Indeed, in the motion, Defendant
argues that “[t]he evidence regarding the May 7, 2023 incident shows that West
Hills Hospital staff had given ‘no copy of any security video . . . to anyone’.
Because no security video had been downloaded by West Hills Hospital staff, it
is not possible for a 10 second video clip to have been manipulated or to have
been released by West Hills Hospital to anyone.” (Mot. at p. 12:4-7.) Defendant
submits the Declaration of Alex Bryer, the Director of the Information
Technology Department of West Hills Hospital and Medical Center, who states, inter
alia, that “[n]either the security video itself or a 10 second clip of the
security video had been released to any individual or entity by West Hills
Hospital.” (Bryer Decl., ¶ 5.) But as discussed, the Yang Court noted
that courts “examine whether a defendant—through
public or private speech or conduct—participated in, or furthered, the
discourse that makes an issue one of public interest.” (Yang v. Tenet
Healthcare Inc., supra, 48
Cal.App.5th at p. 948.) In light of the foregoing, Defendant appears
to assert that it did not “[p]articipate[]
in, or further[], the discourse that makes an issue one of public interest”
with respect to the alleged “Misleading Video Clip.” (Ibid.) As discussed
above, “[i]n deciding whether the initial ‘arising
from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is
based.’” (Navellier
v. Sletten, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 89, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b).)  
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendant has satisfied its burden under
the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis. Accordingly, the burden does not shift to
Plaintiff to establish that there is a probability of prevailing on his sole cause
of action.   
D.    Attorney’s Fees 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1),
“[e]xcept as provided in paragraph (2),
in any action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special
motion to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees
and costs. If the court finds that a
special motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney’s fees
to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.” 

In light of the foregoing, Defendant is not the prevailing party on
the instant motion. Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s request for attorney
fees. 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that he “should be awarded his
attorneys’ fees for opposing [the] motion, because the motion is frivolous and
intended to delay the action.” (Opp’n at p. 18:10-11.) The Court notes that “[t]he anti-SLAPP statute allows
a trial court to award attorney fees against a party who, in its discretion,
files a frivolous motion to dismiss…A determination of frivolousness requires a
finding the motion is ‘totally and completely without merit’ (§ 128.5, subd. (b)(2)), that is, ‘any reasonable
attorney would agree such motion is totally devoid of merit.’…” (Foundation
for Taxpayer & Consumer Rights v. Garamendi (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1387-1388.) The
Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the instant motion is totally
devoid of merit. 
Plaintiff also asserts that Defendant “plainly delayed in bringing its
motion, and the motion itself caused additional, unnecessary delay.” (Opp’n at
p. 19:1-2.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendant “waited until the 61st day after
service to file its motion…That is outside the usual time for filing an
anti-SLAPP motion.” (Opp’n at p. 19:3-5.) Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (f), “[t]he
special motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint or,
in the court’s discretion, at any later time upon terms it deems proper.”
(Emphasis added.) In his supporting declaration,
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n March 11, 2024, my office filed
the Complaint on behalf of Mr. Marx. The Complaint was served on Defendant West
Hills Hospital (‘Hospital’) on March 13, 2024…No responsive pleading was filed
by the Hospital until May 13, 2024, when the Hospital filed its Motion to
Strike.” (Hill Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) The Court notes that 60 days after March 13,
2024 is May 12, 2024. 
However, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown that
Defendant’s one-day delay in filing the instant motion was “solely intended to cause unnecessary delay…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (c)(1).) In his declaration in support
of the motion, Defendant’s counsel states that “[d]espite my due diligence and
due to the sale of defendant West Hills Hospital and Medical Center to UCLA
Health at the end of March 2024, which complicated my investigation, I learned
on Friday, May 10, 2024, fifty-eight days after service of the complaint, that
Heather Stone, the former Director of the Information Technology Department of
West Hills Hospital and Medical Center at the time of the incident would not
sign a declaration supporting the anti-slapp motion. I immediately contacted
the current head of security at West Hills Hospital and Medical Center, Alex
Bryer, and asked him to perform a review of the security records and to sign a
declaration about that review. The review was completed and the declaration was
signed on Monday, May 13, 2024. The anti-slapp motion was filed on May 13,
2024, sixty-one days after service of the complaint.” (Clark Decl., ¶ 5.)
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1) is denied.   
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion
to strike is denied. The parties’ requests for attorney’s fees are denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this Order.  
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court