  Case Number:  20STCV18580    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




ROSY
  RODRIGUEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NEWREZ,
  LLC d/b/a SHELLPOINT MORTGAGE SERVICING,
  
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


 20STCV18580




Hearing Date:


June 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR
  ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS






 
Background 
Plaintiff Rosy Rodriguez
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on May 15, 2020 against Defendant Newrez, LLC
dba Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, alleging causes of action for 
(1) breach of contract, (2) violation
of Civil Code section 2924c, (3) violation of Civil Code section 2924.17, and (4) unfair business
practices. 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that at all relevant times, she has owned the property
located at 236 North 4th St.,
Montebello, CA 90640 (the “Subject Property”). (Compl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
purchased the Subject Property in 2004. (Compl., ¶ 7.) 
In April 2011, Plaintiff
obtained a “First Lien loan” from BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP in the amount of
$462,206.86, which was subsequently transferred to Defendant, a debt collector,
for servicing. (Compl., ¶ 7.) In addition, in April 2011, Plaintiff received a
Loan Modification Agreement through BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP. (Compl., ¶
8.) The loan modification stated that Plaintiff’s mortgage was permanently
modified to a fixed loan, including terms and interest. (Compl., ¶ 8.)
Thereafter, Defendant became the servicer of the modified mortgage. (Compl., ¶
9.)
Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant sent out monthly statements to Plaintiff wherein the “regular monthly
payment” amount changed considerably over the course of several years. (Compl.,
¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that “[f]or example, the mortgage statement dated
September 17, 2017 shows a regular monthly payment amount of $2,285.31. The
statement in October 18, 2017 shows a regular monthly payment amount of
$1,399.68 and one in September 20, 2018 shows a regular monthly payment amount
of $1,624.93. One of the most recent statements dated March 17, 2020 shows that
the regular monthly payment is $2,205.23.” (Compl., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff alleges that in
April 2018, Plaintiff attempted to make a reinstatement payment and was told
that she had to pay nearly four months of payments, instead of the two that
were owed, “because of the overcharges of payments.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) When
Plaintiff countered with the correct amount, Defendant refused to accept.
(Compl., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further alleges that on December 6, 2018, Defendant
recorded a Notice of Default against Plaintiff’s property wherein it failed to
verify the default amount before recording the Notice of Default. (Compl., ¶
11.) 
Newrez, LLC dba
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing LLC (“Defendant”) moved for summary judgment
against Plaintiff or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication of issues.
On August 21, 2023, the Court issued an Order granting Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment. 
On September 26, 2023, a Judgment was entered in this action
providing, inter alia, that “Judgment is entered in favor of Defendant
NEWREZ, LLC dba SHELLPOINT MORTGAGE SERVICING LLC against Plaintiff ROSY
RODRIGUEZ, and Plaintiff shall take nothing by way of this Action…Defendant,
NEWREZ, LLC dba SHELLPOINT MORTGAGE SERVICING LLC is the prevailing party in
this matter and is entitled to its attorneys’ fees and costs in accordance with
applicable law and/or contract… This Action is dismissed, with prejudice.” 
            Defendant now moves “for an order
granting Defendant’s attorneys’ fees and costs.” (Notice of Mot. at p.
1:26-27.) Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for
judicial notice. 
Discussion
A.    Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1717,
subdivision (a), “[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision
(a)(10)(A) provides that attorney’s fees, when authorized by contract, are allowable as costs.
In the instant
motion, Defendant asserts that “[a]s a prevailing party,
Defendant is entitled to its attorneys’ fees and costs under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1032(b)[1]
and 1033.5, Civil Code section 1717, as well as
under the applicable contracts (i.e., the Deed of Trust).” (Mot. at p.
4:16-18.) 
Defendant states that “on or about January 9, 2007, [Plaintiff and
James Rodriguez] executed a Deed of Trust (the ‘Deed of Trust’), securing the
loan to the real property located at 236 North 4th Street, Montebello, CA
90640.” (Mot. at pp. 4:26-5:1.) Defendant asserts that it is “entitled to
recover its attorneys’ fees and costs based on the terms of the Deed of Trust.”
(Mot. at p. 4:7-8.) Exhibit 3 to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is a
January 9, 2007 “Deed of Trust” that lists the “Borrower” as “James Rodriguez
and Rosy Rodriguez, Husband and Wife as Joint Tenants” and the “Lender” as
“Capital Six Funding, an Operating Series of Mandalay Mortgage LLC.”
(Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3.) Defendant points to paragraph 9 of the Deed of Trust
which pertains to “Protection of Lender’s Interest in the Property and Rights
Under this Security Instrument.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3, p. 8.) 
Paragraph 9 of the Deed of Trust provides, inter alia, that
“[i]f (a) Borrower fails to perform the covenants and agreements contained in
this Security Instrument, (b) there is a legal proceeding that might
significantly affect Lender’s interest in the Property and/or rights under this
Security Instrument (such as a proceeding in bankruptcy, probate, for
condemnation or forfeiture, for enforcement of a lien which may attain priority
over this Security Instrument or to enforce laws or regulations), or (c) Borrower
has abandoned the Property, then Lender may do and pay for whatever is
reasonable or appropriate to protect Lender’s interest in the Property and
rights under this Security Instrument, including protecting and/or assessing
the value of the Property, and securing and/or repairing the Property. Lender’s
actions can include, but are not limited to: (a) paying any sums secured by a
lien which has priority over this Security Instrument; (b) appearing in court;
and (c) paying reasonable attorneys’ fees to protect its interest in the
Property and/or rights under this Security Instrument, including it secured
position in a bankruptcy proceeding.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3, p. 8, ¶ 9.) Paragraph
9 of the Deed of Trust further provides that “[a]ny amounts disbursed by Lender
under this Section 9 shall become additional debt
of Borrower secured by this Security Instrument. These amounts shall bear
interest at the Note rate from the date of disbursement and shall be payable,
with such interest, upon notice form Lender to Borrow requesting payment.” (Ibid.) 
Defendant contends that “Plaintiff’s claims were based on the
contractual relationship between the parties – the deed of trust.” (Mot. at p.
7:22-23.) More specifically, Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff alleged that
Defendant breached the contract at issue- namely a modification of the Note and
Deed of Trust.” (Mot. at p. 7:26-27.) As an initial matter, the Complaint in
this action does not appear to reference the subject Deed of Trust, and
Defendant does not appear to point to any specific allegations of the Complaint
concerning the Deed of Trust. As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n
April 2011, Plaintiff received a Loan Modification Agreement through BAC Home
Loans Servicing, LP,” and that “[p]ursuant to the Loan Modification Agreement,
the agreed upon terms were a fixed loan with a fixed interest rate. Defendant
had an obligation to keep the monthly payments and interest constant.” (Compl.,
¶¶ 8, 14.) Plaintiff alleges that “SHELLPOINT became the servicer of the
modified mortgage,” and that “SHELLPOINT sent out monthly statements to
Plaintiff wherein the ‘regular monthly payment’ amount changed considerably
over the course of several years.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute Defendant’s argument
that “Plaintiff’s claims were based on the contractual relationship between the
parties – the deed of trust.” (Mot. at p. 7:22-23.) However, Plaintiff asserts
that “case law makes clear that attorney’s fees are not awardable under Section 9 of the Deed of Trust.” (Opp’n at p. 2:23.) Plaintiff
cites to Hart v. Clear Recon Corp. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 322, 324, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[f]ollowing summary
judgment against plaintiffs Sara and Guy Hart in this wrongful foreclosure
action, defendant Nationstar Mortgage LLC obtained its attorney’s fees as
prevailing party, based on a clause in the deed of trust. On appeal from the
fee award, the Harts contend[ed] the clause in question is not an attorney’s
fees provision.” The Court of Appeal agreed and reversed. ((Ibid.)
The Hart Court noted that “[a]fter Nationstar obtained summary judgment,
and while Sara and Guy’s appeal was pending, Nationstar sought its attorney’s
fees as prevailing party on a contract with an attorney’s fees provision.
Specifically, Nationstar relied on paragraph 9 of the deed of trust, which it
asserted was an attorney’s fees provision.” ((Ibid.) The Hart Court noted that
“Paragraph 9 provides, in full, as follows: 
 
‘9. Protection of Lender’s Interest in the Property and Rights Under
this Security Instrument. If (a) Borrower fails to perform the
covenants and agreements contained in this Security Instrument, (b) there is a legal
proceeding that might significantly affect Lender’s interest in the Property
and/or rights under this Security Instrument (such as a proceeding in
bankruptcy, probate, for condemnation or forfeiture, for enforcement of a lien
which may attain priority over this Security instrument or to enforce laws or regulations),
or (c) Borrower has abandoned the Property, then Lender may do and pay for
whatever is reasonable or appropriate to protect Lender’s interest in the
Property and rights under this Security Instrument, including protecting and/or
assessing the value of the Property, and securing and/or repairing the
Property. Lender’s actions can include, but are not limited to: (1) paying any
sums secured by a lien which has priority over this Security Instrument; (b)
appearing in court; and (c) paying reasonable attorneys’ fees to protect its
interest in the Property and/or rights under this Security Instrument,
including its secured position in a bankruptcy proceeding. Securing the
Property includes, but is not limited to, entering the Property to make
repairs, change locks, replace or board up doors and windows, drain water
from pipes, eliminate building or other code violations or dangerous
conditions, and have utilities turned on or off. Although Lender may take
action under this Section 9, Lender does not have
to do so and is not under any duty or obligation to do so. It is agreed that
Lender incurs no liability for not taking any or all actions authorized under
this Section 9. [¶] Any amounts disbursed by Lender under this Section
9 shall become additional debt of Borrower secured by this Security
Instrument. These amounts shall bear interest at the Note
rate from the date of disbursement and shall be payable, with such interest,
upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment. [¶] If this Security
Instrument is on a leasehold, Borrower shall comply with all the provisions of
the lease. If Borrower acquires fee title to the Property, the leasehold and
the fee title shall not merge unless Lender agrees to the merger in writing.”
(Italics added.).” (Hart v. Clear Recon Corp., supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 325 [emphasis
in original, bold omitted].) 
The Court notes that paragraph 9 of the subject Deed of Trust attached
as Exhibit 3 to Defendant’s RJN appears to be almost identical to the above-referenced paragraph 9
of the deed of trust in Hart. 
The Court of Appeal in Hart
found that “Paragraph 9 is not an attorney’s fee provision.” (Hart v. Clear Recon Corp., supra,
27 Cal.App.5th at p. 327.) The Hart
Court noted that “[p]ursuant to the
language quoted above, Civil Code section 1717
applies only where a ‘contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees …
shall be awarded’ to one party or the prevailing party. We must consider
whether paragraph 9 of the deed of trust specifically so provides. By its
plain language, it does not. The paragraph allows the lender to take
numerous actions, including incurring attorney’s fees, to protect its interest.
It then provides, in the language we emphasized above, that ‘[a]ny amounts
disbursed by Lender under this Section 9 shall
become additional debt of Borrower secured by this Security Instrument.’ This
is not a provision that attorney’s fees ‘shall be awarded’; it is, instead, a
provision that attorney’s fees, like any other expenses the lender may incur to
protect its interest, will be added to the secured debt.” (Ibid.) 
As set forth
above, paragraph 9 of the Deed of Trust in this action, on which Defendant
relies, also provides that “[a]ny amounts disbursed by Lender
under this Section 9 shall become additional debt
of Borrower secured by this Security Instrument.” (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3, p.
8, ¶ 9.)  
Plaintiff also cites to Chacker v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
351, 351-353, where the Court of Appeal noted that “Plaintiff and appellant Melody Chacker (plaintiff) refinanced
a loan on her home and then failed to make required loan payments, which
triggered nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings. Plaintiff sued to stop the
foreclosure process and the trial court entered a judgment of dismissal after
sustaining demurrers to plaintiff’s suit—a judgment we affirmed. The trial
court then ordered plaintiff to pay the attorney fees of defendants and respondents
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (Chase), and
California Reconveyance Company (CRC), finding certain provisions in the deed
of trust she signed authorized a fees award. We consider whether CRC and Chase (collectively, the Chase Defendants) can invoke these attorney
fees provisions despite having assigned the trust deed to another
financial institution, whether the trial court properly ordered payment of fees
rather than ordering the fees added to the loan balance due, and whether the Rosenthal
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Rosenthal Act) (Civ.
Code, § 1788) separately authorizes a fee award.” 
The Chacker Court noted that “Section 9 of the deed
of trust provides the ‘Lender may do and pay for whatever is reasonable or
appropriate to protect Lender’s interest in the Property and rights under this
Security Instrument, including … paying reasonable attorneys’ fees to protect
its interest in the Property and/or rights under the Security Instrument … .’ Section 9 further specifies, however, that any
amounts disbursed by lender for this purpose ‘shall become additional debt of
Borrower secured by this Security Instrument’ and that the ‘amounts shall bear
interest at the Note rate from the date of disbursement and shall be payable,
with such interest, upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment.’
The plain text of these two clauses authorizes attorney fees to be added to the
loan amount; section 9 does not provide for a
separate award of attorney fees.” (Chacker v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at pp.
356-357.) 
In the motion, Defendant also appears to rely on paragraph 14 of the
Deed of Trust, which concerns “Loan Charges” and provides that “Lender may
charge Borrower fees for services performed in connection with Borrower’s
default, for the purpose of protecting Lender’s interest in the Property and
rights under this Security Instrument, including, but not limited to,
attorneys’ fees, property inspection and valuation fees…”  (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3, p. 10, ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff asserts that attorney’s fees are also not awardable under Section 14 of the Deed of Trust here. Plaintiff cites
to Chacker v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., supra, at
page 357, where the
Court of Appeal found that “[i]n a
paragraph headed ‘Loan Charges,’ section 14 of the
deed of trust states ‘Lender may charge Borrower fees for services performed in
connection with Borrower’s default, for the purpose of protecting Lender’s
interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument, including,
but not limited to, attorney fees … .’ Here again, the plain language of this
provision does not provide for a separate award of attorney fees. Rather, it
entitles the lender to charge the borrower fees, and the usage of the word
‘charge,’ particularly in combination with the ‘Loan Charges’ heading and the
other clauses in section 14, is naturally read to
permit the lender to add any attorney fees it may have incurred to the
outstanding amount due under the promissory note. There is no language in section 14 that indicates the trust deed permits a
freestanding contractual attorney fees award.” 
In the reply, Defendant asserts
that “[t]he sole basis for Plaintiff’s Opposition is that the loan
documents and caselaw do not allow for a separate judgment for attorneys’ fees
and costs. Shellpoint agrees. In its Motion, Shellpoint does not seek or ask
for a separate judgment for its attorneys’ fees and costs against Plaintiff
personally. To the contrary, it seeks leave to add these fees and costs to the
balance of the Loan…” (Reply at p. 2:1-5, emphasis omitted.) But Defendant does
not appear to seek “leave” to do so. In the conclusion section of the motion,
Defendant states that it “requests that the Court award its reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $68,416.50. and order that these
amounts be added to the loan balance per Paragraph 9 of the Deed of Trust.”
(Mot. at pp. 15:24-16:2.) 
Defendant
notes that the Chacker Court found, as set forth above, that “Section 9 of the deed of trust provides the ‘Lender may do and pay
for whatever is reasonable or appropriate to protect Lender’s interest in the
Property and rights under this Security Instrument, including … paying
reasonable attorneys’ fees to protect its interest in the Property and/or
rights under the Security Instrument … .’ Section 9
further specifies, however, that any amounts disbursed by lender for this
purpose ‘shall become additional debt of Borrower secured by this Security
Instrument’ and that the ‘amounts shall bear interest at the Note rate from the
date of disbursement and shall be payable, with such interest, upon notice from
Lender to Borrower requesting payment.’ The plain text of these two clauses authorizes
attorney fees to be added to the loan amount; section
9 does not provide for a separate award of attorney fees.” (Chacker
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., supra,
at pages 356-357, underline added.) Defendant emphasizes that the Chacker
Court found that Section 9 “authorizes
attorney fees to be added to the loan amount.” 
But as
discussed, Defendant requests, by way of the instant motion, that the Court “award
its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $68,416.50.
and order that these amounts be added to the loan balance per Paragraph 9 of
the Deed of Trust.” (Mot. at pp. 15:24-16:2, emphasis added.) Thus, Defendant seeks an order awarding Defendant
its attorney’s fees and costs. The Chacker Court found that “plaintiff
is correct that the attorney fee provisions do not authorize a separate award
of fees but rather allow the Chase Defendants
to add their fees to the underlying debt.” (Chacker v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 356.)

In addition, as discussed,
Defendant asserts that it is entitled to attorney’s fees here under Civil Code section 1717. Defendant
argues that “in the context of Civil Code
section 1717, and pursuant to paragraph 9 of the Deed of Trust, an award
of attorneys’ fees and costs reasonably incurred by the prevailing party in
defending this action is mandatory and non-discretionary…” (Mot. at p. 15:13-15, emphasis added.) However, in Hart, the Court of Appeal
noted that “Civil Code
section 1717 applies only where a
‘contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees … shall be awarded’ to one
party or the prevailing party. We must consider whether paragraph 9 of the deed
of trust specifically so provides. By its plain language, it does not. The
paragraph allows the lender to take numerous actions, including incurring
attorney’s fees, to protect its interest. It then provides, in the language we
emphasized above, that ‘[a]ny amounts disbursed by Lender under this Section 9 shall become additional debt of Borrower secured
by this Security Instrument.’ This is not a provision that attorney’s fees
‘shall be awarded’; it is, instead, a provision that attorney’s fees, like any
other expenses the lender may incur to protect its interest, will be added to
the secured debt.” (Hart v.
Clear Recon Corp., supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 327, emphasis
added.) 
Further, as
discussed above, the Hart Court noted that Paragraph 9 is “a provision that attorney’s fees, like any other expenses the
lender may incur to protect its interest, will be added to the secured
debt.” (Hart v. Clear Recon Corp.,
supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at pp. 327, emphasis added.) In the
motion, Defendant
does not appear to assert that it is the “Lender” under the subject Deed of
Trust. As discussed, the Deed of Trust
provided by Defendant lists “Capital Six Funding, an Operating Series of
Mandalay Mortgage LLC” as the “Lender.” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. 3.) In Chacker v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., supra, at page 356, which Defendant cites, the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]hough the Chase Defendants were not signatories to the
loan documents, they stood in the shoes of a signatory and plaintiff sued them
as though they were parties to the deed of trust.” Here, Defendant does not appear to claim that
Defendant “stood in the shoes of a signatory,”
or that Plaintiff sued Defendant as though it was a party to the Deed of Trust.
As discussed, Section 9 of the Deed of Trust
provides that “[a]ny amounts disbursed by Lender under this Section 9 shall become additional debt of Borrower
secured by this Security Instrument. These amounts shall bear interest at the
Note rate from the date of disbursement and shall be payable, with such
interest, upon notice form Lender to Borrow requesting payment.”
(Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3, p. 8, ¶ 9, emphasis added.) 
Lastly,
Defendant also appears to rely on paragraph 22 of the Deed of Trust, which
concerns “Acceleration; Remedies.” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. 3, pp. 12-13.)
Paragraph 22 provides, inter alia, that “Lender at its option may
require immediate payment in full of all sums secured by this Security
Instrument without further demand and may invoke the power of sale and other
remedies permitted by Applicable Law. Lender shall be entitled to collect all
expenses incurred in pursuing the remedies provided in this Section 22, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs of title evidence.” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. 3, p. 13, ¶
22.) Plaintiff asserts that “nothing in this section provides for
an ‘award of attorney’s fees’ in litigation as required by Civ. Code section 1717. This provision instead states
that the Lender will incur costs in defending the security interest and it is
entitled to charge those costs to the Borrower.” (Opp’n at p. 6:2-4.) Plaintiff
also asserts that the Court should apply the same result reached in Chacker
as to paragraph 22 of the Deed of Trust. Defendant does not
appear to address or dispute this point in the reply. 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Defendant has demonstrated its entitlement to attorney’s fees here. 
Conclusion
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for attorneys’ fees and costs is denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to
provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


