 Case Number:  23STCV11339    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No. 
Ramirez vs. Joe’s Sweeping, Inc., et. al.,
Case No. 23STCV11339
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Defendants Joe’s Sweeping, Inc.,
Nationwide Environmental Services A Div. of Joe’s Sweeping, Inc., Nationwide
Environmental Services, and George Ramirez (collectively, Defendants) move to
compel Plaintiff Hiban Ramirez (Plaintiff) to binding arbitration. The motion
is granted.
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2,
subds. (a), (b).)
A proceeding to compel arbitration is
in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party
to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).) 
            The petition to compel arbitration
functions as a motion and is to be heard in the manner of a motion, i.e., the
facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence
with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The petition to compel
must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration
clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by
reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 (Condee).)  
            Once petitioners allege that an
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the
falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is
required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88
Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is
challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
Plaintiff was hired by Defendant Joe’s
Sweeping, Inc. (JSI) as a Sweeper Operator on November 11, 2014. (Comp. ¶ 11;
Samuelian Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff was terminated on May 19, 2021. (Comp. ¶ 14.)
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts claims against Defendants arising from alleged
disability discrimination and retaliation.
 
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to arbitration
based an Arbitration Agreement (the Agreement) purportedly signed by Plaintiff
on February 25, 2015. (Samuelian Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) The Agreement provides as
follows:
 
[B]oth you
[Plaintiff] and the Company agrees to arbitrate any and all disputes, claims,
or controversies (‘claim’) that the Company may have against you or that you
may have against the Company which could be brought in a court arising out of
your relationship with the Company, including, but not limited to, all claims
arising out of or relating to your employment with the Company and the end of
your employment with the Company. 
(Samuelian
Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A, p. 1.)
 
            Plaintiff does not dispute the
existence of the arbitration agreement, but argues that the agreement is
unenforceable based on either fraud or unconscionability.
 
Fraudulent
Inducement of Agreement 
Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2 provides that
an agreement to arbitrate will not be enforced where “[g]rounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subd. (b).) This has
been construed “to mean that the petition to compel arbitration
is not to be granted when there are grounds for rescinding the agreement. Fraud
is one of the grounds on which a contract can be rescinded.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 973.) 
“California law distinguishes between
fraud in the ‘execution’ or ‘inception’ of a contract and fraud in the
‘inducement’ of a contract. In brief, in the former case ‘the fraud goes to the
inception or execution of the agreement, so that the promisor is deceived as to
the nature of his act, and actually does not know what he is signing, or does
not intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual assent is lacking, and [the
contract] is void. In such a case it may be disregarded without the
necessity of rescission.’ [Citation.] Fraud in the inducement, by contrast,
occurs when ‘the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent is induced
by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed, which, by reason
of the fraud, is voidable…’ ” (Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415.)
“[A] contract will not be ‘considered
void due to the fraud if the plaintiff had a reasonable opportunity to discover
the true terms of the contract. The contract is only considered void when the
plaintiff's failure to discover the true nature of the document executed was
without negligence on the plaintiff's part. [Citation.] [¶] This issue usually
arises when the plaintiff failed to read the terms of the contract, relying
instead on the defendant's representation as to the effect of the contract.
Generally, it is not reasonable to fail to read a contract; this is true even
if the plaintiff relied on the defendant's assertion that it was not necessary
to read the contract. [Citation.] Reasonable diligence requires a party to read
a contract before signing it. [Citation.]’ ” (Rosencrans v. Dover Images,
Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1080.)
            Here, Plaintiff
argues that his consent to the Agreement was obtained by fraud in the execution.
Plaintiff gives the following account of his signing of the Agreement on
February 25, 2015: 
I was
presented with an arbitration agreement, and I was told to sign the arbitration
agreement right then and there without the opportunity to think about it or
have an attorney review it. . . . I was given the arbitration agreement while
waiting in line for my paycheck. As I picked up my paycheck, I was rushed into
signing the document without having the chance to review it. When I asked
questions about the arbitration agreement . . . Defendants would become upset
and say, ‘You have to sign the documents.’ ‘Hurry up, there’s a long line of
people still waiting for their paychecks.’ At the time, I could not afford to
lose my job and I felt pressured to sign the agreement.
(Ramirez Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
On Reply, Defendants submit
a declaration from Nejteh Der Bedrossian, JSI’s Operations Manager, who states,
“Plaintiff was presented with the arbitration agreement similar to all other
employees where they are given a copy of the agreement and given a reasonable
amount of time to review, and ask questions if they have any prior to signing
the documents. Further, arbitration agreements, handbooks, and other important
documents are not presented on days that paychecks are issued.” (Der Bedrossian
Decl. ¶ 2.) Der Bedrossian also disputes that Plaintiff was told, “You have to
sign the documents,” or, “Hurry up, there’s a long line of people still waiting
for their paychecks.” (Id. ¶ 3.)
 
            Accepting
Plaintiff’s account as true for purposes of argument, the circumstances would
not support voiding the Agreement based on fraud.  For comparison, in Rosencrans v. Dover
Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, while driving into his workplace,
the plaintiff-employee was handed a release agreement with “approximately 10
cars in line behind [him]” and was told, “Here, just sign this.” (Id. at
1080.) The plaintiff claimed that this constituted fraud in the execution
because he “was not aware that he was signing a waiver and release of
his rights.” (Id. at 1079.) The Court of Appeal disagreed, finding that the plaintiff “could
have read the Release while in line, or he could have moved his truck to the
side and read the Release. There is nothing indicating that [plaintiff] was
forced to sign the Release or that he was somehow denied an opportunity to read
the Release before signing it.” (Ibid.) Here, similarly, there is no
apparent reason why Plaintiff could not have moved to the side of the line to
review the Agreement before signing it. Plaintiff’s account, if true, would not
show that he was denied a reasonable opportunity to discover the true terms of
the contract, and so does not support a finding of fraud in the execution.
 
Unconscionability
            Plaintiff next argues that the
Agreement is unenforceable based on unconscionability. The Court disagrees.
 
The inquiry into unconscionability
consists of two prongs: A contract will be revoked if it is both procedurally
unconscionable and substantively unconscionable. (See
Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 103.) Procedural and substantive unconscionability need not
be present to the same degree, with the test operating on a “sliding scale”:
“[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Id.
at 114.)
 
“‘Procedural unconscionability’
concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances
of the parties at that time.  It focuses
on the factors of oppression and surprise. The oppression component arises from
an inequality of bargaining power of the parties to the contract and an absence
of real negotiation or a meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The
component of surprise arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that procedural unconscionability exists because he was pressured into
signing the Agreement, as described above. (Ramirez Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendants dispute Plaintiff’s account of the
signing. (Der Bedrossian Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) 
As discussed above, it does not appear to the Court that Plaintiff could
not have read the agreement while stepping out of the line so as not to hold up
other employees.  The Court also finds
Defendant’s account of the process of presenting documents to be signed by new
employees the more persuasive.
 
            Plaintiff also
argues that there was procedural unconscionability because he was not provided
with the rules for arbitration. In cases where the failure to provide a
copy of arbitration rules supported a finding of procedural unconscionability,
“the plaintiff’s unconscionability claim depended in some manner on the
arbitration rules in question.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1245-46.) That is, whether this factor indicates
unconscionability depends on whether there is unconscionability present in the
omitted rules: “courts will more closely scrutinize the substantive
unconscionability of terms that were ‘artfully hidden’ by the simple expedient
of incorporating them by reference rather than including them or attaching them
to the arbitration agreement.” (Ibid.)
Here,
the Agreement provides that arbitration will be governed by the JAMS Employment
Rules & Procedures. (Samuelian
Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A [8].) Plaintiff has not made any argument
regarding the unconscionability of any incorporated term in the JAMS Rules. In
this context, the failure to attach a copy of the rules is not evidence of procedural
unconscionability. (Baltazar, 62 Cal.4th at 1246.)
 
“‘Substantive
unconscionability’ focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those
terms are so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th
1322, 1330 (citations omitted).) Substantive unconscionability looks to overly
harsh or one-sided results. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 99.) “[T]he paramount consideration in assessing
[substantive] conscionability is mutuality. . . When only the weaker party's
claims are subject to arbitration, and there is no reasonable justification for
that lack of symmetry, the agreement lacks the requisite degree of mutuality.”
(Abramson v. Juniper Networks, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 657.)
Plaintiff argues that
substantive unconscionability is present based on (1) the Agreement’s
confidentiality clause, and (2) the Agreement’s severability clause. 
The Agreement provides,
“[t]he arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding upon the Parties,
except as provided in this Agreement. Neither the Parties nor the arbitrator
may disclose the existence, content, or results of any arbitration without the
prior written consent of the Parties.” (Samuelian Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A [9].)
Plaintiff argues that this provision is substantively unconscionable because it
improperly stifles discovery. The Court agrees. “An inability to mention even
the existence of a claim to current or former . . . employees would handicap if
not stifle an employee's ability to investigate and engage in discovery.” (Ramos
v. Superior Court (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1042, 1065.) As in Ramos,
where an unconscionable confidentiality provision required the plaintiff to
keep “all aspects of the arbitration” secret, the Agreement restricts Plaintiff
from disclosing “the existence, content, or results of any arbitration” without
prior written consent. The Court finds that this broad limitation is substantively
unconscionable, as
“[i]t is hard to see how [Plaintiff] could engage in informal discovery or
contact witnesses without violating the prohibition…” (Ibid.)  Accordingly, the Court severs the
confidentiality provision from the Agreement.
The
Agreement also contains a severability clause which provides, “[i]f an
arbitrator finds any other provision of this Agreement unenforceable, a court
or arbitrator shall interpret or modify this Agreement, to the extent
necessary, for it to be enforceable…” (Samuelian Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A [9].) While
Plaintiff argues this term is unconscionable, Plaintiff presents no authority
suggesting that a severability clause may evidence substantive
unconscionability.
            In sum, the Court finds that there is some substantive
unconscionability present but no procedural unconscionability. Because
Plaintiff has not shown that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable, the
Agreement is not unenforceable based on unconscionability. 
Finally, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant George Garcia’s claims are not subject to the Agreement because
he is a non-signatory. The Court disagrees. Garcia may enforce the Agreement as
an alleged agent of the signatory, JSI. “[W]hen a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an
agent of a party to an arbitration agreement, the defendant may enforce the
agreement even though the defendant is not a party thereto.” (Thomas v.
Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614.) Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint
alleges that Garcia was his manager during the period at issue. (Comp. ¶ 15a.) An allegation of joint employment
is sufficient to support application of the agency exception for enforcement by
a non-signatory. (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788.)