 Case Number:  23STCV18258    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
RAVAND CONSTRUCTION, INC., a
California Corporation, HASSAN
MOHAMMADKHANIGHIYASVAND aka
RAMIN GHIYASVAND, an individual;,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
ALEN AIR SYSTEMS, a California
Corporation; ALEN MANOOKIAN, an
individual; and DOES 1 through 50,
inclusive,,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV18258
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 08/02/2023 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 11/08/2023]
Trial
  Date: 06/30/2025    



 
Hearing Date:            August
9, 2024
Moving Party:           Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Hassan Mohammadkhanighiy Asvand
Responding
Party:    Defendant/Cross-Complainant Alen Manookian
            
Motions: Cross-Defendant Hassan Mohammadkhanighy Asvand’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint 
Tentative Ruling: The
Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Cross-Defendant Hassan
Mohammadkhanighy Asvand’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.
Background
Factual and Procedural Background
            On
August 2, 2023, Ravand Construction, Inc. (Construction) and Hassan Mohammadkhanighiy
Asvand aka Ramin Ghiyasvand (RG) filed a Complaint against Alen Air Systems
(AAS) and Alen Manookian (Manookian). The Complaint alleged six causes of
action based on the alleged failure to repay three separate loans made by
Construction and RG as creditors to Alen Air Systems and Manookian as debtors. On
November 8, 2023, a Cross-Complaint (XC) was filed by AAS and Manookian against
RG alleging three causes of action: (1) assault, (2) battery, and (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. The XC alleges that on May 31,
2023, RG attacked Manookian with a box cutter while the two were in RG’s
vehicle. (XC, ¶¶10-15.) Manookian suffered a slashing injury and a broken nose.
(Id. at ¶15.) The XC additionally alleges that RG was criminally charged
and has a criminal case currently pending. (Id. at ¶16.)
            The
motion before the Court is RG’s demurrer to the XC. RG demurs solely to the
first cause of action for assault. Manookian opposes the demurrer, RG files a
reply.  
Meet and Confer
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a).) There is no indication that any meet and confer efforts took place,
therefore the requirements under Code Civ. Proc. §430.14(a) remain unsatisfied.
However, per Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a)(4), “A determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule
or sustain a demurrer.” Therefore, the Court will turn its attention to the
demurrer.    
 
Discussion 
Legal Standard
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis
            “The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
[he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it
reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the
threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was
harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
            Upon
demurrer, RG argues that at no time could Manookian “have reasonably [believed]
he was about to be touched since the subsequent alleged touching came suddenly
and without warning.” (Opposition Papers, 6:5-9.) The Court is unpersuaded. Manookian
has properly pled the elements for assault sufficient to survive demurrer. 
            Manookian
alleges that RG was traveling on the freeway “at a high rate of speed of about
80 to 90 MPH” (XC, ¶10) all the while yelling at Manookian that he intended to
kill them both. (Id.) The XC continues stating that RG “threatened to
take Manookian to a place in the City of Lancaster, where he intended to kill
Manookian.” (XC, ¶12.) Moreover, in addition to threatening to kill Manookian’s
parents (XC, ¶13) RG was allegedly holding a box cutter with the blade out in
his right hand. (XC, ¶14.) RG then allegedly struck Manookian causing a
slashing injury and a broken nose. (XC, ¶15.) 
            The
XC alleges the first element of intent by alleging the threats and intention to
kill Manookian. The second element is properly alleged in that Manookian,
believing he was in danger, repeatedly requested that RG stop the vehicle and
allow Manookian to leave. Third it is clear by the XC, that Manookian in no way
consented to being touched, however, Manookian was then struck with the box
cutter, thereby fulfilling the fourth element. Finally, the XC makes clear that
RG’s actions were a substantial factor in causing the harm. Therefore, the
demurrer to the first cause of action for assault is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant Hassan
Mohammadkhanighy Asvand’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: August 9, 2024 
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 