  Case Number:  21STCV45457    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Onni
Contracting (California), Inc. and Cross-Defendant RLI Insurance Company for
Summary Adjudication. Motion of Defendant/Cross-Complainant ONNI CONTRACTING
CALIFORNIA), INC. to Compel Deposition.
BACKGROUND
In this case, PRECISION CONSTRUCTION GROUP, INC. (“Precision”)
seeks damages against ONNI CONTRACTING (CALIFORNIA), INC. (“Onni”) based on
Onni’s alleged breach of a written subcontract between the parties and Onni’s
alleged failure to pay Precision for products it provided to Onni, all in
connection with Precision’s work as a subcontractor at the real property located
at 6933 Santa Monica Blvd., Los Angeles (the “Property”). Precision, which
recorded a mechanics lien against the Property, has also sued RLI INSURACE BOND
(“RLI”) to recover from the lien release bond the amount stated in the
mechanics lien. Precision alleges the following causes of action against Onni: 1)
Breach of Written Contract; 2) Goods, Wares and Merchandise Sold and Delivered;
3) Open Book Account; and 4) Account Stated. Precision alleges a claim against
RLI for Enforcement of Mechanics Lien Release Bond. 
Onni and RLI (referred to collectively as
“Defendants”) seek summary adjudication as to four issues. Onni also moves to
compel the deposition attendance of the person most qualified (PMQ) of Precision
and monetary sanctions. Precision opposes both motions. The Court addresses
both motions in this tentative ruling. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Summary
Adjudication
Generally, a party may only move for summary
adjudication when the motion completely resolves a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. Code Civ. Proc.,
§437c(f)(1).  
In moving for summary adjudication, a “defendant . . .
has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not
separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has
satisfied that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show, by
responsive separate statement and admissible evidence, that triable issues of
fact exist.” Ostayan v. Serrano Reconveyance Co. (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th
1411, 1418, disapproved on other grounds by Black Sky Cap., LLC v.
Cobb (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 156, 165; see also Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(p)(2). 
            Deposition
Parties are restricted to one deposition, absent a
court order based upon a showing of good cause. Code Civ. Proc.,
§2025.610(a).  Deponents may attend
depositions by remote electronic means. Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.310).
EVIDENTIARY RULINGS
Precision’s evidentiary objection to the Declaration
of Jeffrey S. Flashman is overruled. 
Defendants’ evidentiary objections are sustained as to
numbers 17, 19 and 20, and are otherwise overruled. See, e.g., Gribaldo v.
Agrippina Versicherunges A. G. (1970) 3 Cal.3d 434, 443 (parol evidence can
be admissible to show contract meaning and intent), Howard Ent., Inc. v.
Kudrow (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1114 (parol evidence can include custom
and word usage in the industry), and Benavidez v. San Jose Police Dept.
(1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 853, 861-862 (ambiguous deposition admissions may be contradicted
by declarations).  
ANALYSIS
            Summary
Adjudication
                        Procedure
Defendants seek summary adjudication of four issues
related to Precision’s claims: (1) Precision cannot recover $603,343,13 in
material cost escalation as part of its damages; (2) Precision has no
evidentiary support for the alleged material cost escalation it seeks as part
of its damages; (3) Precision cannot recover $319,158.35 for concrete pour
costs as part of its damages; and (4) Precision’s mechanics lien is void. Code
of Civil Procedure Section 437c(f)(1) does not generally permit summary
adjudication of damages claims unless doing so disposes of an entire cause of
action. DeCastro West Chodorow & Burns, Inc.  v. 
Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 410, 422. “[A] party may
present a motion for summary adjudication challenging a separate and distinct
wrongful act even though combined with other wrongful acts alleged in the same
cause of action.” Edward Fineman Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 66 Cal. App 4th
1110, 1118 (involving separate checks). The determination of whether a
complaint contains more than one cause of action for these purposes “depends on
whether it alleges invasion of one or more primary rights.” Hindin v. Rust
(2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 1247, 1257.  
There is an exception to the general rule that a
summary adjudication motion must dispose of an entire cause of action or claim
for damages. “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely dispose
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, or an issue of duty…. This motion
may be brought only upon the stipulation of the parties whose claims or
defenses are put at issue by the motion and a prior determination and order by
the court that the motion will further the interests of judicial economy,
by reducing the time to be consumed in trial, or significantly increase the
ability of the parties to resolve the case by settlement.” Code Civ. Proc.,
§437c (t). (Underscoring added.)
Here, the Complaint’s four causes of action seek relief
based on Onni’s alleged breach of the subcontract that within it contemplates
change orders. Defendants’ motion seeks to adjudicate less than that primary
right asserted by Onni by requesting adjudication of separate claimed damages
as to the subcontract. But adjudication of these issues will not result in the
complete disposal of the claims. Moreover, there is no stipulation and order
allowing the statutory exception of adjudicating damages issues or other issues
that will not completely dispose of any of Precision’s claims in this case. Thus,
the motion is not permitted by statute as interpreted by case law.
Therefore, the motion is denied as a matter of
procedure.
                        Discovery
Continuance
While the Court denies the motion for procedural
reasons, it also finds that, even considering the merits of the motion, summary
adjudication is not appropriate. First, Precision argues that substantial
discovery is outstanding that would relate to opposing the motion for summary
adjudication, including deposing Onni’s former project manager and a subcontractor
that worked on the project, and subpoenaing documents from Precision’s
materials supplier. Sorrentino Decl., ¶¶ 14-16. 
“‘If it appears from the affidavits submitted in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication ... that
facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated,
then be presented, the court shall deny the motion, or order a
continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had....’” Krantz
v. BT Visual Images, L.L.C.  (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 164, 175, fn.7 (quoting Code Civ. Proc., §437c(h)). (Underscoring
added.) Precision has adequately shown that this discovery, which it delayed to
pursue settlement negotiations, may uncover facts to support Precision’s claims.
This is another reason to deny the motion. 
                        Merits
Issue 1: Precision’s
Claim for Material Cost Increases Is Precluded by Contract.
Defendants contend that the following damage element
is not compensable: Precision’s Change Order request number 22 for $603,343.13
in material cost escalation. Defendants contend that two contract provisions (paragraphs
10 and Schedule C) prohibit claims for material cost escalation and waive such claims
not made within a year of project completion. 
Specific contract provisions control over general ones
where they are inconsistent. Brady v. Bayer Corp. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th
1156, 1178 (citing Civ. Code, § 3534 (as to contract and statutory
interpretation, specific language controls over the general)). Further, where two
plausible interpretations of the contract language exist, parol evidence is
admissible to assist in interpreting the agreement, which therefore presents a
question of fact precluding summary adjudication. Wolf v. Superior Court
(2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1359, fn. 26. 
Here, Precision contends that the language in paragraphs
10 and Schedule C of the subcontract does not preclude its ability to seek
recovery from Onni for the material cost escalation, citing to the language in
Clause 52. Precision contends Clause 52 provides the subcontractor with a right
to terminate the subcontract and to recover compensation for “any loss
sustained from plant and material.” Motion, Ex. A; See Precision’s Response to
Sep. Stmt. Nos. 3-5. Parol evidence also exists that the meaning of “any loss
sustained from plant and material” in Clause 52 in the construction industry
includes costs and any increases in material costs occurring over the course of
the subject project. See id. Because the topic of damages after contract
termination more specifically applies than other contract provisions against
recovering increased material costs and collecting on untimely invoices, the
contract is reasonably susceptible to an interpretation that Clause 52 allows
increased materials costs are damages. 
Therefore, there are triable issues of material fact
as to whether the subcontract provides for recovery of material costs
increases, necessitating denial as to issue number 1.
Issue 2: Precision’s
Claim for Material Cost Increases Lacks Any Evidentiary Support.
Defendants argue that Precision has not produced
evidentiary support for material cost increases at the deposition of
Precision’s PMQ. 
A moving defendant must show that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to prove a cause of action, which is more than
simply arguing that there is an absence of evidence. Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891 (refusal to answer and objection at deposition
insufficient to shift burden). 
Here, this issue inadequately relies upon unsupportive
depositions, which did not shift the burden of proof. Nevertheless, Precision provides
evidence of damages apart from just the depositions. See Precision’s Add’l
Disputed Material Facts No. 1-9.
Thus, the burden did not shift, moreover, other damages
evidence could raise triable issues of fact, such that the motion must be
denied as to issue number 2.
Issue 3: Precision Cannot
Recover on Its Claim for Extra Costs to Pour Concrete on September 11, 2021
Because Precision Concedes it Did Not Perform that Work.
Defendants argue that extra costs to pour concrete are
not recoverable. Precision acknowledges that the work for the concrete pour is
not part of its damages claim. Precision instead contends that its claims seek contract
damages. See Precision’s Response to Sep. Stmt. Nos. 10-12; Add’l Disputed
Material Facts No. 8-14. “The requirement of performance may be excused by the
other party’s breach.” Loral Corp. v. Moyes (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 268,
280. 
While there is no dispute about not performing work in
order to claim extra costs to pour concrete, there remains a dispute regarding the
total of contract damages that are related to excuses for the inability to
perform that work due to the other party’s failure to perform. Add’l Disputed
Material Facts No. 8-14.
Therefore, the motion is denied as to issue number 3.
Issue 4: Precision’s
Mechanics Lien Is Void Because it Knowingly Includes Claims on Which Precision
Cannot Recover.
Defendants contend that Precision recorded an
overstated mechanics lien involving the surety on a release bond, such that the
bond claim must be dismissed. “Summary judgment is proper only where there are
no triable issues of material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment
in its favor as a matter of law.” Assad v. Southern Pacific Transportation
Co. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1609, 1612. Here, whether the mechanics lien was
overstated is the subject of dispute as to the totality of sums in support. See
Precision’s Response to Sep. Stmt. Nos. 13-19; Add’l Disputed Material Facts
No. 8-14. Summary adjudication therefore is not warranted. 
            Compelling
Deposition 
Onni also moves to compel attendance of Precision’s
PMQ on categories related to Precision’s claims and damages. Onni contends that
Precision’s PMQ Jerry Sorrentino was unprepared to answer questions related to
these issues in his two prior depositions. No good cause exists for this third
deposition. Defendants adequately demonstrate that Mr. Sorrentino is in poor
health such that subjecting him to a third day of deposition amounts to harassment.
Moreover, the remaining discovery could be obtained via interrogatories and
document requests. Primarily, the reply does not contest that Mr. Sorrentino
has health issues but offers a remote deposition. But it is not clear from the
filings that a remote deposition would satisfactorily address the health
issues.
Therefore, the motion to compel a third deposition is
denied, as are the parties’ respective requests for sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
The motion for summary adjudication is denied.
The motion to compel a deposition is denied.
 