 Case Number:  22STCV25895    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint; Defendants’
Motion to Seal Confidential Records Lodged in Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint.
BACKGROUND
In this case, Plaintiffs CHEN FANG and YU LIN (“Plaintiffs”)
seek damages related to a Limited Partnership Agreement (“LPA”) they entered
into with Defendant Group 48 LP. Defendant CMB Export and Defendant NK are
general partners of the Group 48 limited partnership, which is controlled by
Defendant Hogan. Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into this agreement in
connection with the development of the Century Plaza Hotel (the “Project”).
On 2/6/24, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend only with respect to the three
causes of action in the Complaint (rescission-frustration of purpose; breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and unjust enrichment). Plaintiffs
now seek leave to file a proposed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to allege a
class action lawsuit adding claims for: fraud in the inducement; unfair
competition in violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200; breach
of contract; breach of fiduciary duty; negligence; gross negligence; and imposition
of a constructive trust. The proposed FAC also adds Noreen Hogan as a defendant.
Defendants oppose the motion.
Separately, Defendants move to seal specified exhibits
included with the motion to amend, as being trade secrets and other
confidential business materials. Plaintiffs do not oppose that motion. The
Court addresses both motions in this tentative ruling. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A trial court has discretion to allow a party to amend
a pleading in the furtherance of justice. CCP § 473(a). “If discovery and
investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely amendment to a
pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.”  Mabie v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
581, 596.  “It is a rare case in which
denial of leave to amend can be justified.” Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1422, 1428.







­




 


 The Court,
however, has the discretion to deny leave to amend if it finds the party’s
delay in presenting the amendment was unwarranted, or when it determines that
the other party will be prejudiced due to needing more discovery or delay of
the trial. Miles v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 728, 739. Even
if a party delays in moving to amend, however, it is an abuse of discretion for
a court to deny leave to amend a pleading where the opposing party is not
prejudiced by the proposed amendment. Kittredge Sports Co. v Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1048.
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply
with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a), (b).) 
 
With regards to a motion to seal, courts must find a
compelling, overriding interest, prejudice absent sealing, and the lack of
less-restrictive means, before ordering filed documents sealed. McGuan v.
Endovascular Technologies, Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988 (“the
protection of trade secrets is an interest that can support sealing records
….”).
ANALYSIS
Motion to Amend
Plaintiffs contend that,
since the filing of the initial Complaint, they have learned additional facts
related to Defendants’ alleged misconduct. Plaintiffs learned recently that Defendant
Hogan’s statements regarding the reasons for Group 48’s insolvency were
rejected by an appellate court in a different case related to the Project. In
December 2023 Plaintiffs received from Defendants 1,894 previously withheld
documents in discovery in this case. Plaintiffs contend that, based on their
review of these documents, Defendants made repeated misrepresentations to Plaintiffs
regarding the Project. (Mot., 9: 6-13, 14:3-10). The proposed new allegations
and claims are based on Plaintiffs’ broader understanding of Defendants’
alleged misconduct in connection with the Project. Plaintiffs filed this motion
on 3/5/24, approximately a month after the Court’s ruling on the MJOP. 
Defendants argue that there was inexcusable delay in
bringing this motion because Plaintiffs have “known all along about the
financial troubles of the project, the state court lawsuits, and the
foreclosure sale.” (Opp., 8:14-15). The Court disagrees.
Defendants’ arguments are mere speculations. (Opp., 6:23-24; 7:3-24;8:1-23). In
December 2023, Defendants produced 1,894 documents that had been previously
withheld and marked as confidential. (Kusel Decl. ¶ 5:23-26.)  Thereafter,
Plaintiffs’ counsel conducted research revealing that Defendants were involved
in two other litigations, filed in New York State and California, related to
Group 48 and the foreclosure on the Century Plaza Project. (Id.) These
filings revealed that other courts had rejected Defendant Hogan’s statements to
Plaintiffs back in 2022. Plaintiffs sought to file the FAC two months after
receiving and reviewing the 1,894 documents, and just a month after this Court’s
ruling on the MJOP. (Id. at ¶ 9:5-6.) Under these circumstances, any
delay by Plaintiffs in bringing this motion does not rise to the level of
inexcusable delay that would warrant denial of their motion.
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants will not be
prejudiced by the addition of new claims because trial is nine months away and consequently
so is the deadline to bring a dispositive motion. (Mot.,
14:7-10).  In response, Defendants contend that permitting the
amended complaint at this late stage would effectively cause this case to start
all over again—unfairly forcing Defendants to re-litigate the entire case
through all stages. (Opp., 5:23-24). Defendants also contend that Plaintiffs “present
entirely new legal theories and claims as class representatives—which were
previously ‘not pleaded at all’—'after [a] long unexplained delay’ and after
this Court already deemed their existing claims non-viable . . . [and] [s]uch
“lack of diligence” is prejudicial and is itself grounds for denying
Plaintiffs’ motion to amend.” (Opp., 6:13-16). Defendants failed to provide any facts showing that they
would be prejudiced. Defendants merely speculate that the additional causes of
actions may result in additional litigation expenses. That the FAC asserts new
legal theories is not relevant to determining whether Plaintiffs may file an amended
pleading because the proposed amendments relate to the general set of facts in
the Complaint, i.e., Defendants’ duties to Plaintiffs under the LPA with
respect to the Project. Kittredge Sports Co., 213 Cal. App. 3d at 1048 (new
legal theories are irrelevant to a motion to amend so long as the amended
pleading relates to the same general facts as the prior pleading). Therefore,
the Court does not find prejudice. 
Plaintiffs have satisfied the procedural
requirements for filing an amended complaint. The Motion includes a copy of the
proposed first amended complaint, specifications by reference to pages and
lines of the allegations that are to be added, and a declaration specifying the
effect and necessity of the proposed amendment. (Kusel Decl., ¶ 8; Mot.
16:2-10; Exh. 1- Proposed FAC). 
Motion to Seal
Defendants’ motion states that an unredacted FAC and
exhibits have been lodged under seal. Defendants shared the information and/or
documents with Plaintiffs subject to a Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement
and provided the discovery responses pursuant to a stipulated protective order.
The Court finds that the declaration of Senior Vice
President and General Counsel of CMB Export LLC evidences a compelling, overriding
interest, prejudice absent sealing, and the lack of less-restrictive means, as
to business trade secrets and sensitive commercial information.
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the
motion for leave to amend. Plaintiffs shall file and serve the FAC attached to
the motion within 14 days of this order.
The motion to seal is
granted.  