  Case Number:  21STCV43583    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Claremont Unified School District’s Motion  for Summary Judgment, and in the Alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication  of Issues Respondent: Plaintiff John SJ  Doe FINAL RULING Defendant Claremont Unified School District’s Motion  for Summary Judgment, and in the Alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication  of Issues is DENIED. BACKGROUND This  action arises from the sexual abuse of a high school student by school staff.  Defendant Brandy Wilborn was a teacher’s aide employed by Defendant Claremont  Unified School District (CUSD) at Claremont High School. Plaintiff John SJ Doe  was a student at Claremont High School. From December 2014 to May 2015, Wilborn  sexually assaulted, abused, molested, and harassed Doe. Wilborn was then  arrested in 2015 and pled no contest to unlawful sexual intercourse with a  minor. On  November 29, 2021, Doe filed a complaint for damages against CUSD, Wilborn, and  Does 1 through 50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) intentional  infliction of emotional distress (IIED) against all defendants; (2) negligence  against CUSD and Does 1-50; (3) negligent supervision against CUSD and Does  1-50; (4) negligent retention/hiring against CUSD and Does 1-50; (5) negligent  failure to train, warn, or educate against CUSD and Does 1-50; (6) breach of  fiduciary duty against all defendants; (7) constructive fraud pursuant to Civil  Code, section 1573 against all defendants; (8) sexual harassment pursuant to  Civil Code, section 51.9 against all defendants; (9) sexual harassment and  abuse in the educational setting pursuant to Education Code, section 220  against CUSD and Does 1-50; (10) sexual battery against Wilborn; (11) gender  violence pursuant to Civil Code, section 52.4 against Wilborn; and (12)  violation of Penal Code, section 647.6, subdivision (a)(1) against Wilborn. On  June 17, 2022, the court sustained CUSD’s demurrer to the Complaint. On  September 6, 2022, Doe filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  defendants alleging the same causes of action. On February 9, 2023, the court  sustained CUSD’s demurrer to the FAC. On  March 1, 2023, Doe filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same  defendants alleging the same causes of action. On July 24, 2023, the court  sustained and overruled CUSD’s demurrer to the SAC in part without leave to  amend. On  June 11, 2024, CUSD filed the present motion. On October 4, 2024, the court  continued the hearing on CUSD’s motion for CUSD to submit a supplemental  separate statement. A  hearing on the present motion is set for November 26, 2024, along with a  post-mediation status conference/trial setting conference. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Doe’s  evidentiary objections are OVERRULED as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15,  16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28 and SUSTAINED as to Nos. 8, 11, and 21. ANALYSIS CUSD  moves for summary judgment or adjudication of Doe’s negligence causes of action  on the grounds that Doe cannot establish the essential elements of duty and  causation. CUSD also moves for summary judgment or adjudication of Doe’s first  cause of action for IIED and ninth cause of action for sexual harassment and  abuse in the educational environment. On  November 26, 2024, the court heard oral argument from the parties.  The discussion focused primarily on the issue  of whether Education Code, section 44808, applied to bar Plaintiff’s claims  against Defendant CUSD.  After oral  argument, the court took the matter under submission to consider the arguments  made by both sides. Having  considered the matter further, the court issues the final ruling set forth below,  supplementing the court’s analysis in the section titled “School District Immunity,”  and DENIES  CUSD’s  motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, motion for summary adjudication. Legal Standard A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Negligence Causes of Action CUSD  argues Doe’s negligence causes of action fail because Doe cannot establish the  essential elements of duty and causation. The court disagrees. Duty The  existence of a legal duty is an essential requirement for any cause of action  based on negligence. (Romero v. Superior Court (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th  1068, 1078 [“Absent a legal duty, any injury is an injury without actionable  wrong.”].) “And, while questions concerning whether a duty has been breached  and whether that breach caused a plaintiff’s injury may be questions of fact  for a jury, the existence of the duty in the first place is a question of law  for the court.” (Margaret W. v. Kelley R. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 141,  150.) Because it is a question of law, the issue of duty “is particularly  amenable to resolution by summary judgment.” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997)  15 Cal.4th 456, 465.) Doe’s  negligence causes of action are based on the allegation that CUSD owed Doe a “special,  trusting, and confidential duty of care” that arose from their special relationship.  (SAC, ¶ 7, 52.) The SAC generally alleges CUSD owed Doe a duty to protect minor  children in their care through adequate supervision (SAC, ¶ 39); to refrain  from violating Doe’s rights to protection from bodily restraint or harm,  personal insult, defamation, and injury to personal relations in compliance  with Civil Code section 43 (SAC, ¶ 39); to abstain from injuring Doe’s property  or person or infringing on Doe’s rights pursuant to Civil Code section 1708  (SAC, ¶ 39); and to disclose Wilborn’s unfitness and misconduct (SAC, ¶ 40,  42). The second cause of action for negligence incorporates these allegations  (SAC, ¶ 63) and alleges that CUSD owed Doe a duty to report known or suspected  incidents of child assault and sexual abuse pursuant to the Child Abuse and  Neglect Reporting Act or CANRA (SAC, ¶ 39, 66). The third cause of action for  negligent supervision alleges CUSD owed Doe a duty to adequately supervise  Wilborn. (SAC, ¶ 77.) The fourth cause of action for negligent retention or  hiring alleges CUSD owed Doe a duty to not hire or retain Wilborn considering  Wilborn’s alleged dangerous and exploitative propensities. (SAC, ¶ 90.) Last,  the fifth cause of action for negligent failure to train, warn, or educate  alleges CUSD owed Doe a duty to warn, train, or educate Doe about the risks of  sexual assault, harassment, and molestation. (SAC, ¶ 101.) In  moving for summary judgment or adjudication, CUSD makes the following  arguments. First, CUSD argues that any alleged special relationship or duty  owed by CUSD is foreclosed by the immunity provisions of Education Code section  44808. Second, CUSD argues the duty allegations fail because CUSD did not have  actual or constructive notice of Wilborn’s unfitness or potential for  misconduct. Third, CUSD argues the duty allegations fail because Wilborn’s  misconduct was not reasonably foreseeable. And finally, CUSD argues the CANRA  duty allegations fail because CUSD did not have actual knowledge of Wilborn’s  abuse. The  court addresses each argument is addressed below. School District Immunity Education  Code, section 44808 states as follows: “Notwithstanding any other provision of this code,  no school district, city or county board of education, county superintendent of  schools, or any officer or employee of such district or board shall be  responsible or in any way liable for the conduct or safety of any pupil of the  public schools at any time when such pupil is not on school property, unless  such district, board, or person has undertaken to provide transportation for  such pupil to and from the school premises, has undertaken a school-sponsored activity  off the premises of such school, has otherwise specifically assumed such  responsibility or liability or has failed to exercise reasonable care under the  circumstances. In the event of such a specific undertaking, the  district, board, or person shall be liable or responsible for the conduct or  safety of any pupil only while such pupil is or should be under the immediate  and direct supervision of an employee of such district or board.” (Educ. Code,  § 44808.) CUSD  argues Education Code section 44808 applies to the present action as Wilborn’s  alleged sexual abuse of Doe occurred off school property. (MSJ, p. 19:22-20:8.)  But as demonstrated below, that is not what the undisputed material facts  establish. In the SAC, the only acts of sexual abuse or inappropriate conduct alleged  to have occurred on school property are that Wilborn flirted with Doe by  engaging in conversations outside of class (SAC, ¶ 16) and touched Doe’s thighs  and back in the classroom (SAC, ¶ 15, 29(a)). While the SAC also alleges  Wilborn kissed Doe (SAC, ¶ 29(a)), touched Doe’s genitals (SAC, ¶ 29(a)), sent  Doe photographs of Wilborn’s breasts and vagina (SAC, ¶ 29(a)), and engaged in  sexual intercourse with Doe (SAC, ¶ 29(a), these allegations fail to specifically  allege where the instances of abuse took place. CUSD’s  separate statement states it is undisputed that Wilborn claims Wilborn did not  have any inappropriate interactions with Doe on campus. (Defendant’s Supplemental  Separate Statement (DSSS), ¶ 25.) CUSD also states it is undisputed that  Wilborn claims Wilborn did not engage in any fondling or touching while in the  classroom with Doe. (DSSS, ¶ 29.) But what Wilborn claims is merely evidence  and itself is not a material fact. (Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004)  121 Cal.App.4th 95, 105-106 [noting what a party perceived or said in a deposition itself is  not a material fact but rather possible evidence of such a fact].) As a result,  these purported material facts are insufficient. CUSD’s separate statement also  describes multiple occasions where Wilborn had sexual contact with Doe off  campus. (DSSS, ¶ 12, 15-16, 19, 27, 28.) But it does not include any material  facts that establish these were the only times Wilborn had sexual contact with  Doe. Absent such material facts, CUSD has failed to carry the initial burden of  establishing it is undisputed that all acts of alleged sexual abuse occurred  off campus. Thus, CUSD has not demonstrated Doe’s causes of action for  negligence are barred by Education Code section 44808. Furthermore, even if  CUSD had demonstrated undisputed facts that Wilborn sexually abused Doe off  campus, the court finds CUSD failed to demonstrate Education Code section 44808  is applicable. In interpreting this provision, our supreme court rejected the  proposition that Education Code section 44808 provides blanket immunity for all  off-campus injuries occurring outside of the school’s supervision. (Hoyem v.  Manhattan Beach City Sch. Dist. (1978) 22 Cal.3d 508, 516-517 (Hoyem).)  Instead, our supreme court focused on the fact that this immunity provision  includes an exception when the school district “has failed to exercise  reasonable care under the circumstances.” (Id., at p. 517, quoting Educ.  Code, § 44808.) Our supreme court held “[t]he intent of the Legislature is  clear: when a school district fails to exercise reasonable care[,] the immunity  of this section evaporates.” (Id., at p. 517, fn. 2.) In applying this  rule, our supreme court held a school district could be liable when the school  district’s negligent on-campus supervision was the alleged proximate cause of  the student’s off-campus injuries. (Id., at p. 512.) In  arguing Education Code section 44808 applies, CUSD relies on LeRoy v. Yarboi  (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 737 (LeRoy). In that case, the Fourth District  Court of Appeal held Education Code section 44808 prevented a school district  from being held liable for a student’s off-campus suicide. (Id., at p.  744.) While the plaintiffs in that case argued the school district’s negligent  failure to protect the student from bullying led to the off-campus suicide, the  court held the reasonable care requirement “‘does not create a common law form  of general negligence; it refers to the failure to exercise reasonable care  during one of the [three] mentioned undertakings’ in section 44808.” (Id.,  at 745-744, quoting Bassett v. Lakeside Inn, Inc. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th  863, 871 (Bassett). To the extent LeRoy conflicts with Hoyem,  however, this court is bound by the supreme court’s precedent. Further, the  Fourth District Court of Appeal’s approach deviates from the approach in the  Second District Court of Appeal which continues to apply the reasonable care  exception. (Brownell v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (1992) 4  Cal.App.4th 787, 794, 796; Perna v. Conejo Valley Unified School Dist. (1983)  143 Cal.App.3d 292, 296.) And as CUSD’s counsel conceded at the hearing, no  California authority has applied this immunity provision to the instant facts  involving sexual abuse of a student by school staff. Thus, because Doe’s causes  of action are based on the allegation that CUSD’s negligent supervision of Doe  and Wilborn on campus led to Wilborn’s sexual abuse of Doe, the court finds this  argument fails. Existence of Duty “California  law has long imposed on school authorities a duty to supervise at all times the  conduct of the children on the school grounds and to enforce those rules and  regulations necessary to their protection.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union  High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869 (C.A.), quoting Dailey  v. Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747.) Courts also  consider school employees to have a special relationship with their students  which imposes “the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from  foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting negligently or  intentionally.” (Id., at p. 869-870.) As part of this duty, if school  employees responsible for hiring or supervising teachers “knew or should have  known of [teacher’s] prior sexual misconduct toward students, and thus, that he  posed a reasonably foreseeable risk of harm to students under his supervision .  . . , the employees owed a duty to protect the students from such harm.” (Virginia  G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1855.) Furthermore,  school employees are mandatory reporters who must report if they have knowledge  of or reasonably suspect child abuse pursuant to CANRA. (Pen. Code, § 11166,  subd. (a).) CUSD  first argues they owed no duty to Doe because they lacked actual or  constructive notice of any potential misconduct by Wilborn or Wilborn’s alleged  unfitness as an employee. (MSJ, p. 13:3-28, 15:6-16:7.) As to negligent  supervision, however, this is not the standard. In M.W. v. Panama Buena  Vista Union School Dist. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508 (M.W.), the  court explicitly rejected this actual knowledge limitation on a school  district’s duty to supervise their students. (Id., at p. 521-522, 524.) Instead,  “[t]he existence of a duty of care of a school district toward a student  depends, in part, on whether the particular harm to the student is reasonably  foreseeable.” (Id., at p. 518.) As to negligent hiring or retention of  school staff, however, CUSD’s duty does depend on whether “the individual  alleged to be negligent in a hiring or retention decision knew or should have  known of the dangerous propensities of the employee who injured the plaintiff.”  (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 878.) CUSD’s duty also depends on  whether “the employee’s propensities posed a substantial risk of personal  injury to the plaintiff or others in the same circumstances.” (Ibid.) The  SAC alleges CUSD knew or should have known that Wilborn had dangerous and  exploitative propensities when they hired Wilborn. (SAC, ¶ 90.) While the SAC  does not allege which specific facts should have put CUSD on notice, it suggests  such facts would have been revealed by conducting a meaningful and adequate  investigation of Wilborn’s background. (SAC, ¶ 90.) The SAC also alleges that  during Wilborn’s period of employment and prior to Wilborn’s sexual abuse of  Doe, other students or employees of CUSD complained of Wilborn’s sexual  improprieties. (SAC, ¶ 94.) As a result, the SAC alleges CUSD was put on notice  that Wilborn had previously engaged in and continued to engage in unlawful  sexual conduct. (SAC, ¶ 95.) While  CUSD’s separate statement provides material facts addressing the second  allegation about Wilborn’s tenure at CUSD, the separate statement fails to  address the first allegation that CUSD knew or should have known of Wilborn’s  dangerous and exploitative propensities when they first hired Wilborn. (DSSS,  p. 17:1-24:17.) By failing to address all material allegations, CUSD cannot  establish it is undisputed that CUSD lacked actual or constructive notice of Wilborn’s  alleged unfitness when they hired Wilborn. (See Teselle v. McLoughlin¿(2009)  173 Cal.App.4th 156, 171 (Teselle) [failure to address a material  allegation in the pleadings by a moving party defendant is fatal to a motion  for summary judgment or adjudication on that cause of action or issue].) As  to the issue of foreseeability, CUSD argues the foreseeable risk of harm to Doe  was nonexistent. (MSJ, p. 14:10-15:5.) “Foreseeability is determined in light  of all the circumstances and does not require prior identical events or  injuries.” (M.W., supra, 110 Cal.App.4th at p. 519.) It is an  objective standard that looks at whether the negligent conduct or absence of  safeguards created a foreseeable risk of a particular type of harm. (Ibid;  see also Taylor v. Oakland Scavenger Co. (1941) 17 Cal.2d 594, 600.) The  SAC alleges Wilborn would openly touch Doe on the shoulder and rub Doe’s back  and thighs in the presence of Brenda Tilford, Doe’s assigned math teacher at  Claremont High School. (SAC, ¶ 15.) The SAC alleges Wilborn would flirt or  converse with Doe and other students in the hallways and quads of Claremont  High School when Wilborn’s role consisted of one-on-one contact with one or two  special education students and did not permit fraternization or socialization  with other students. (SAC, ¶ 16.) The SAC also alleges that Doe and Wilborn  left the school campus together in front of teachers, administrators, and  campus monitors. (SAC, ¶ 16.) Last, the SAC alleges CUSD received a report from  another parent in April 2015 that claimed Wilborn was in a sexual relationship  with Doe. (SAC, ¶ 18.) In  addressing the first allegation, CUSD’s separate statement states it is  undisputed that no one observed Wilborn rub Doe’s back or thighs in class.  (DSSS, ¶ 9, 11.) The court finds, however, that is not what the evidence  establishes. The only supporting citations provided by CUSD reference portions  of Doe’s deposition transcript where Doe describes how in class Wilborn would  touch Doe’s back or rub Doe’s thighs with Wilborn’s feet when they sat across  from each other. (MSJ, Ex. B, p. 57:10-58:18, 62:20-24.) Nowhere in the cited  portions of the deposition transcript does Doe state that no one observed  Wilborn touching Doe. Next, CUSD’s separate statement provides it is undisputed  that Wilborn did not have any inappropriate interactions with Doe on campus and  did not touch or fondle Doe in the classroom. (DSSS, ¶ 25, 29.) But while these  material facts are supported by citations to Wilborn’s deposition testimony, they  omit citations to previously cited deposition testimony from Doe where Doe has  described Wilborn touching Doe in class. The  fact that Doe and Wilborn present conflicting accounts of what occurred in the  classroom is a triable issue of material fact that precludes the grant of  summary judgment or adjudication as to the causes of action for negligence and  negligent supervision. Furthermore, even if CUSD had established that no one observed  Wilborn rubbing Doe’s back and thighs, the failure of CUSD’s staff to notice  and report such behavior created a foreseeable risk that Doe would be subject  to further sexual abuse by Wilborn. Because  CUSD is not entitled to summary judgment or adjudication on the issue of  whether CUSD owed a duty to properly supervise Doe, the court need not address whether  CUSD is entitled to summary judgment or adjudication on whether CUSD also violated  duties imposed by CANRA as these allegations are part of the same cause of  action for negligence. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A  motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes  of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue  of duty.”].) Causation “An  essential element of negligence is that the tortfeasor’s breach caused the  injury protected against.” (Sutter Health v. Superior Court (2014) 227  Cal.App.4th 1546, 1558.) Unlike determinations of duty, causation is generally  a question of fact for the jury. (Hernandez v. Jensen (2021) 61  Cal.App.5th 1056, 1064.) The court may only decide causation as a matter of law  where there is no reasonable dispute. (Constance B. v. State of California (1986)  178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207.) CUSD  argues they are entitled to summary judgment or adjudication because Doe has no  facts from which Doe can draw the legitimate inference that CUSD’s alleged  negligence was the cause of Doe’s injury. (MSJ, p. 19:5-9.) But as noted in the  previous section, a triable issue of fact does exist with regards to whether CUSD’s  staff exercised due care in supervising Doe when Wilborn was touching Doe’s  back and thigh in class. Because there can be a reasonable dispute over whether  CUSD’s alleged failure to properly supervise Doe in class led to Wilborn  sexually abusing Doe, the court  finds CUSD  is not entitled to summary judgment or adjudication of the issue of causation. IIED (First Cause of Action) CUSD  contends Doe’s first cause of action for IIED fails because CUSD cannot be held  vicariously liable for Wilborn’s conduct and Doe has admitted CUSD lacked  notice of Wilborn’s misconduct. (MSJ, p. 17:14-16.) The court disagrees. As  to the first contention, Doe is not seeking to hold CUSD vicariously liable for  Wilborn’s sexual abuse of Doe. Rather, Doe is seeking to hold CUSD vicariously  liable for their reckless failure to properly supervise Doe and Wilborn. (SAC,  ¶ 58-59.) Thus, this contention is without any basis. And, to the extent CUSD  claims Doe has admitted CUSD lacked notice of Wilborn’s misconduct, CUSD’s  cursory argument fails to include any citation that supports this claim. Accordingly,  CUSD’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication fails as to this cause of  action. Sexual Harassment and Abuse in the Education Setting  (Ninth Cause of Action) CUSD  maintains Doe’s ninth cause of action for sexual harassment and abuse in the  education setting fails because CUSD did not have actual notice of Wilborn’s  misconduct. The court disagrees. Legal Standard Education  Code, section 220 prohibits “discrimination on the basis of disability, gender,  gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion,  sexual orientation, or any other characteristic that is contained in the  definition of hate crimes set forth in Section 422.55 of the Penal Code,  including immigration status, in any program or activity conducted by an  educational institution that receives, or benefits from, state financial  assistance, or enrolls pupils who receive state student financial aid.” A  school is liable for violations of Section 220 when the school has actual  notice of the violation and liability is not imposed through principles of  respondeat superior or constructive notice. (Donovan v. Poway Unified School  Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 605 (Donovan).) Actual notice is required  to “ensure liability for money damages under section 220 is based on a funding  recipient’s own misconduct, determined by its own deliberate  indifference to known acts of harassment.” (Ibid.) Discussion The  SAC alleges CUSD had actual notice based upon the allegations that Wilborn engaged  in grooming behaviors in front of CUSD’s administrators and staff. (SAC, ¶ 14, 152.)  Specifically, the SAC alleges Wilborn would openly touch Doe on the shoulder  and rub Doe’s back and thighs in the presence of Brenda Tilford, Doe’s assigned  math teacher at Claremont High School. (SAC, ¶ 15.) The SAC alleges Wilborn  would flirt or converse with Doe and other students in the hallways and quads  of Claremont High School when Wilborn’s role consisted of one-on-one contact  with one or two special education students and did not permit fraternization or  socialization with other students. (SAC, ¶ 16.) The SAC also alleges that Doe  and Wilborn left the school campus together in front of teachers,  administrators, and campus monitors. (SAC, ¶ 16.) Last, the SAC alleges CUSD  received a report from another parent in April 2015 that claimed Wilborn was in  a sexual relationship with Doe. (SAC, ¶ 18.) As  noted above in the section discussing foreseeability, a triable issue of  material facts exists with regard to whether Wilborn was touching Doe’s back  and thighs in class. A triable issue of fact also exists with regard to whether  Doe’s math teacher observed Wilborn’s inappropriate behavior. Furthermore,  while CUSD’s discussion of this issue provides two paragraphs of legal  standards and case law, it is completely devoid of any actual analysis that  applies the law to the facts of this case. Accordingly,  CUSD’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication fails as to this cause of  action. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, CUSD’s  motion for summary judgment or adjudication is DENIED.