 Case Number:  23TRCV00910    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Monday,
February 26, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 2
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Junine Gonzalez v. CCS Los Angeles
Janitorial, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV00910
1.      CCS Los Angeles Janitorial, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            CCS Los Angeles Janitorial, Inc.’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March
27, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is a former employee
of Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected to discriminatory and
retaliatory conduct based on her pregnancy status. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1. Sex and Pregnancy Discrimination in Violation of
FEHA Cal. Gov. Code § 12945 2. Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment,
or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940 3. Retaliation for
Requesting Pregnancy-Related Accommodations in Violation of FEHA, Cal. Gov’t
Code § 12940 4. Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy 5. Failure
to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226 6. Violation
of Labor Code § 1198.5.
 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Defendant moves for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims, and for an order to stay the action pending completion of arbitration.  The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281 et seq. and the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) on the grounds
Plaintiff is bound by a written agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of
the Complaint. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in relevant part: “On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an arbitration agreement
must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an agreement to
arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed
agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be implied in
fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause within a
contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read the
clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US),
LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted). It is not
an adequate defense to enforcement that Plaintiff failed to read and understand
the agreement before signing the agreement. Caballero v. Premier Care Simi
Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 519.
 
Defendant has established the existence of a valid arbitration agreement between
Plaintiff and Defendant pursuant to a collectively bargained agreement. (Decl.,
Dana Holladay, ¶¶ 7-11, Ex. A.)  The agreement
states “[a]ny violation or alleged violation of any matter covered by this
collective bargaining agreement must be exclusively processed as a grievance in
the manner required by this Article XXIII.A, XXIV.A, or the Alternate Dispute
Resolution Protocol.” The collective bargaining agreement covers rights of
pregnant employees including sexual harassment and discrimination, as well as
wrongful termination and wage and hour claims. (Id.) Defendant has shown that
the collective bargaining agreement is enforceable and affects interstate
commerce. (Id.) Defendant has established the existence of an arbitration
agreement and Plaintiff’s refusal to submit to arbitration. (Decl., David Krol,
¶ 2.)
 
Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
Plaintiff did not meet her burden to show that the arbitration agreement should
not be enforced. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration clause is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.  A court
can invalidate an arbitration agreement when it is unconscionable or against
public policy.  See, Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 99. 
Unconscionability contains two elements: 
procedural unconscionability and substantive unconscionability.  
 
“[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a substantive' element,
the former focusing on ‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining
power, the latter on 'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results.  The prevailing view is that [procedural and
substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability." But they need not be present in the same
degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at
114.      
 
“The traditional standard of unconscionability . . . is that the
inequality amounting to fraud must be so strong and manifest as to shock the
conscience and confound the judgment of any man of common sense.   Subsequent decisions have defined an
unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms, such as a contract that
no man in his senses and not under delusion would make on the one hand, and as
no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Procedural unconscionability may be established by showing oppression and
surprise.  Oppression occurs where the
parties have unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of
meaningful negotiations.  Surprise
recognizes the extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden. 
 
 “In many cases of adhesion
contracts, the weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also
any realistic opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he
must either adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed
service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have
elements of an adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff, as a member of a collectively bargained
union agreement, is bound by those terms and cannot challenge the agreement
based on unconscionability principles unless there is a showing that the union
breached its duty of fair representation. “[C]ourts confine their inquiry to a
few threshold issues; they do not consider the substance of the grieving party’s
claims, nor do they scrutinize the agreed-upon arbitration procedures for
general fairness.” Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 414.  Here, Plaintiff fails to argue or present
evidence that the union breached a duty of fair representation.
 
However, even assuming arguendo that the Court could consider the unconscionability
arguments, Plaintiff fails to meet her burden. To support her procedural
unconscionability argument, Plaintiff states that the arbitration clause was hidden
in a 147-page agreement and that the agreement was not in a language (English)
that Plaintiff could understand. However, the Court notes that Plaintiff
submitted no competent evidence to support the procedural unconscionability
argument - namely Plaintiff’s own first-hand declaration attesting to any
surprise or oppression.  The Court
further notes that Defendant has no obligation to highlight, explain, or
discuss the terms of the arbitration agreement as any such requirement would be
contrary to the FAA. Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.
4th 899, 914-15. 
 
“[C]ourts, including ours, have used various nonexclusive formulations to
capture the notion that unconscionability requires a substantial degree of
unfairness beyond a simple old-fashioned bad bargain. This
latter qualification is important. Commerce depends on the enforceability, in
most instances, of a duly executed written contract. A party cannot avoid a
contractual obligation merely by complaining that the deal, in retrospect, was
unfair or a bad bargain. Not all one-sided contract provisions are unconscionable;
hence the various intensifiers in our formulations: ‘overly harsh,’
‘unduly oppressive,’ ‘unreasonably favorable.’ The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.” Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original). 
 
As noted above, both procedural and substantive unconscionability must
exist for the Court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce the
arbitration provision. As noted, Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence to
support the procedural unconscionability element. Plaintiff merely set forth
arguments in the points and authorities. Thus, the Court need not even address
the substantive unconscionability arguments.
 
Therefore, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted. The Court action
is ordered stayed pending completion of arbitration. An OSC re: status of
arbitration is set for _________.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.