  Case Number:  22TRCV00834    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Monday, February 26, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 1 
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
David
W. Munn v. Daniel R. Sallus, et al.  
22TRCV00834
1.      Stone & Sallus, LLP’s Motion for an Order that the
Truth of the Matters Specified in Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One,
Served on Plaintiff David W. Munn be Deemed Admitted and Request for Sanctions  

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Stone & Sallus, LLP’s Motion for
an Order that the Truth of the Matters Specified in Defendant’s Request for
Admissions, Set One, Served on Plaintiff David W. Munn be Deemed Admitted and
Request for Sanctions is denied, in part, and granted, in part. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 16, 2022, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on April 4, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. This is a legal malpractice action related to an underlying
estate and probate action. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1.
Professional Negligence; 2. Breach of Contract; 3. Breach of Fiduciary Duty. 
 
            Motion to Deem
Admitted
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280 states:
            “If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:
(a) The party to whom the
requests for admission are directed waives any objection to the requests,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(1) The party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections
2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230.
(2) The party's failure to
serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.
(b) The requesting party may
move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
(c) The court shall make
this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission
have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Section 2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or
both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission
necessitated this motion.”
 
            Defendant served upon Plaintiff Requests for Admissions,
Set One, on June 16, 2023. Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to serve
any verified responses to the Requests for Admissions, Set One.  On February 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
written opposition. With the opposition, Plaintiff attached purported
responses. The Court notes that the verification page to the responses to
Requests for Admissions, Set One, that were filed with the Court is unsigned.
However, Defendant filed a Reply and with the Reply Defendant attached the
responses that were presumably served upon Defendant. Those responses were
verified. 
 
            The proposed responses are in substantial compliance with
CCP § 2033.220. Thus, the motion to deem Requests for Admissions, Set One, is denied.
However, also, as noted above, sanctions are mandatory. Defendant argues that
the responses are deficient because the responses contain objections. Any
deficiency of the responses would be the subject of a motion to compel further
responses after a mandated meet and confer process, and not a motion to deem
admitted. 
 
            Sanctions
 
            Sanctions are awarded in favor of Defendant and against
Plaintiff in the total sum of $1,060.00. This is the amount requested by
Defendant and the amount requested is reasonable. 
 
            Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.
 
             