 Case Number:  22STCV04047    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV04047




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel the Continued Deposition of Plaintiff Edelmira Vega Rios 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant ASN Calabasas I
  LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Edelmira Vega Rios et al. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
February 2, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against ASN Calabasas I LLC
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 100 for the wrongful death of Decedent Melissa
Amber (“Decedent”). The operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) was filed on
October 26, 2022, and alleges that Decedent died after slipping and falling on
water leaking from the restroom in her rental unit. (SAC ¶ 16.) The SAC also
asserts a negligent infliction of emotional distress cause of action. 
 
On
November 14, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. Defendant began the deposition of Plaintiff Edelmira
Vega Rios (“Plaintiff”), who is Decedent’s mother and was present when Decedent
fell. (See SAC ¶¶ 5, 25.) The deposition took place for approximately five
hours. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 9–10.) Defendant requested a second session of the
deposition, but Plaintiff refused to stipulate. 
 
On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel the
continued deposition of Plaintiff, arguing that Plaintiff failed to respond to
relevant questions without valid objections. Defendant also seeks monetary
sanctions.[1]
Plaintiffs oppose, also seeking sanctions, and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.
(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
            
“If the court determines that the answer or production sought is
subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production
be made on the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(i).) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(j).) 
 
“Except
as provided in subdivision (b), or by any court order, including a case
management order, a deposition examination of the witness by all counsel, other
than the witness' counsel of record, shall be limited to seven hours of total
testimony. The court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits imposed by
this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent,
another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the examination.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.290(a).)  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Laura C. Williams, Defendant’s counsel, states the
following: “On the record, I met and conferred with Ms. Nuckel during which she
stated Plaintiffs' position was that the deposition was being concluded at ASN
counsel's prerogative and that they were agreeable to continuing with the full
seven hours that day (notwithstanding the obvious fact that Plaintiffs' counsel
himself had already left), but that another session would not be allowed. I
then made a record reflecting my attempt to meet and confer on the issue of
scheduling a second deposition session, and that Plaintiff Rios and her counsel
simply refused.” (Williams Decl.¶ 11.) Though Counsel does not state that a
second meet and confer effort was attempted, it appears Defendant made a
reasonable attempt to resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the certified copy of the deposition transcript
does not indicate when the transcript was completed. (See Williams Decl., Exh.
B.) Therefore it is unclear whether this motion was made within the 60-day
deadline. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) Nevertheless, Plaintiffs do not
object to this. Therefore, the Court will consider the motion. 
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff did not serve objections to the
operative deposition. The deposition was conducted remotely. Defendant contends
Plaintiff provided evasive, non-responsive statements to the following
questions regarding: (1) Plaintiff David Dwight Rios-Howard's father; (2)
authenticating the Third Amended Deposition Notice and Request for Production;
(3) whether Plaintiff was looking down at her cell phone during the deposition;
(4) whether Plaintiff could draw on a photograph marked as an exhibit; and (5) a
GoFundMe post that Plaintiff wrote. Additionally, Defendant argues that during
the later portion of the deposition, Plaintiff admitted she was not feeling
well, was stressed, had a headache, and her answers became entirely
unresponsive. 
 
Defendant’s separate statement list the following questions it seeks
to compel: 
 
1.      Oh,
so you like – you like David's father?
 
For this question, Defendant fails to explain in the separate
statement how the issue of whether Plaintiff likes co-Plaintiff David’s father
is relevant to this wrongful death action. Plaintiff is also the guardian ad
litem for David in this case. Additionally, it appears that Plaintiff
eventually answered the question (albeit not as a “yes” or “no”). A few moments
later, the following exchange took place:
 
“Q. Ms. Rios, are you refusing to answer the question?
A. No, I'm not refusing. It's just that I'm not -- I don't know what
to tell you. I'm focused on my grandson and my focus is not on his father. I
don't even know him. Should I say? I don't know him.” (Williams Decl., Exh. B.,
Rios Depo. 46:11–16.) 
 
Therefore, the motion to compel a response to this question is denied.

 
2.      Do
you think Dwight is an absentee father?
 
For this question, the separate statement does not describe how the
question is relevant. Regardless, the transcript shows that when pressed on the
question further, Plaintiff responded “I have -- really, from my heart to
yours, I have no idea.” (Rios Depo. 51:5–6.) 
Therefore,
the motion to compel is denied.
 
3.      So
do you think Dwight Howard is a good father to David?
 
Defendant does not set forth the relevancy of this question in the
separate statement. Therefore, the motion to compel is denied. 
 
4.      Do
you recognize this first page of this Exhibit 1 on your screen?
 
Here, it appears Plaintiff answered this question with “I can't
remember if I've seen it or not.” (Rios Depo. 58:15.) Therefore, the motion to
compel is denied. 
 
5.      I'm
sorry. You were looking down. Were you looking at your phone just now?
 
It appears this question was asked to determine if Plaintiff was being
improperly coached by counsel during the deposition. Based on the transcript,
Plaintiff did not give a clear response. Therefore, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
6.      Is
there -- Elizabeth, are you able to give Ms. Rios control and allow her to draw
on the document?
 
According to the transcript, Plaintiff’s counsel did not provide a
sufficient objection or basis for preventing Plaintiff from drawing, or even
attempting to draw, on the exhibit. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
drawing on a document is not the same thing as a reenactment, however, fails to
provide authority in support. Additionally, the argument that the drawing could
be more prejudicial than probative is unpersuasive here since the Court is not ruling
on questions of admissibility at trial. Therefore, the motion to compel
Plaintiff to draw on the exhibit according to Defendant’s questions is granted.
(Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1101, 1111–12 [(former
section 2025.480(a)) includes “nonverbal as well as verbal responses at a
videotaped deposition—which may require a deponent to perform a demonstration
or reenactment at the request of a party”].) 
 
7.      It
says, "Mira Rios is organizing this fund-raiser," right there on
Exhibit 1 -- or Exhibit 5, page 1. Is that you?
 
The transcript shows that Plaintiff refused to answer the question
because she made a promise not to disclose the identity of the person who made
the GoFundMe page.  (Depo. 174:16–25.)
When pressed further, Plaintiff then changed her testimony, stating “I don’t
even remember the family member.” (Depo. 175:1–9.) Therefore, the Court finds
she was unresponsive and the motion to compel is granted. 
 
8.      Third
paragraph on page 4 of Exhibit 5 – my voice is starting to go. It says, okay,
"and get a court order that prevents Dwight from treating my relationship
with my grandson and Mimi's legacy like a piece of dirt." Is that an
accurate reflection of your feelings about that dispute at that time, yes or
no?
 
Here, although Plaintiff did not provide a yes or no response, she
responded with “I can’t remember how I was feeling.” (Depo. 207:12–13.)
Therefore, the motion to compel is denied. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants the motion to compel responses to questions
numbers 5, 6, 7, as indicated in Defendant’s separate statement. The remaining
are denied. 
 
Both parties seek sanctions against each other. However, seeing as the
motion is granted in part, and denied in part, the Court declines to award
monetary sanctions. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to Compel the Continued Deposition of
Plaintiff Edelmira Vega Rios is granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiff
shall give complete responses to the questions numbers 5, 6, 7 at the
resumption of her deposition. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


