  Case Number:  20STCV22354    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV22354




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, filed on March 29, 2024 by Petitioner Yan Yun Chen
(“Petitioner”) on behalf of Claimant Curry Li, age 7. The Court denies the
petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
Petitioner requests $187,000 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be reasonable. 
 
Petitioner seeks $40,154.30 in additional costs to be paid
from the proceeds. Petitioner must include an itemized cost ledger in
attachment 13b accounting for the amounts claimed from both law offices. 
 
It appears counsel is representing other parties in this
matter. Petitioner must change the response in item 17e and provide attachment
17e.
 
Petitioner must also file and complete a proposed order
(MC-351). 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 