 Case Number:  22STCV28270    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28270




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Bernard Nellom




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Hubert Watson Family Living Trust and HW Property Management, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 30, 2022, Plaintiff Bernard Nellom (“Plaintiff”) filed a form complaint
against Defendants Watson H. Family Living Trust, HW Property
Management, Inc., and Does 1 to 10 for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges that on November 19, 2020, he was injured on property owned by
Defendants that contained defective ceilings, floors, and stairs. 
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Hubert Watson as Doe 1. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to
amend his complaint in order to add Doris Sturgis as a plaintiff and assert the
following additional causes of action: Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Habitability; Breach of the Statutory Warranty of Habitability; Nuisance;
Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; Negligent Violation of Statutory
Duty; Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and Breach of Contract. The
proposed amended complaint also seeks injunctive relief, attorney’s fees, and
punitive damages. Unlike the original complaint, the proposed amended complaint
is organized on pleading paper. 
 
Defendants Hubert Watson Family Living Trust and HW Property
Management, Inc. (“Defendants”) oppose. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held: “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the motion states the paragraph numbers and
sections that will be added to the amended complaint. Plaintiff also provides a
copy of the proposed amended complaint. (Howard Decl., Exh. B.)  However, the declaration in support does not
specify the effect of the amendment, when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and why they were not made earlier. Therefore, the
procedural requirement for this motion has not been met. 
 
The original complaint arose out of an incident on November 19, 2020
when Plaintiff attempted to open the locked front door of his apartment located
at 11130 S. Freeman Avenue in Inglewood, California. Plaintiff alleges that as
he tried opening his door, he stepped back, and due to slope and deficiencies
of the steps, lost his footing and fell. (Motion, 6.) 
 
The proposed amended complaint alleges issues with the subject
apartment, which Plaintiffs have lived at since March 1, 2013. It alleges that
Plaintiffs did not notice any structural defects upon first beginning their
tenancy. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were informed of the defective
condition of the stairs during an August 15, 2020 housing inspection. After
Plaintiff allegedly fell down the stairs on November 19, 2020, the amended
complaint asserts that subsequent housing inspections found issues with, among
other things, leaking water, a roach infestation, and a bathtub needing
reglazing, which Defendants failed to fix. 
 
Plaintiff argues that recent findings in discovery support the
addition of the proposed causes of action and adding a new plaintiff to this
case. However, Plaintiff does not discuss exactly what those new findings are
in the motion or declaration. Instead, Plaintiff generally asserts that the
amendments are necessary “because recent discoveries resulting from the
scrutiny of Defendants’ discovery responses, subpoenaed records, and recent
deposition testimonies have substantially influenced the course of this
litigation.” (Howard Decl. ¶ 3.) The motion does not state when the depositions
took place nor provides any of the discovery responses that support the new
allegations. As set forth above, although leave to amend is liberally granted, the
Court must consider the delay, as it is explained in a declaration by counsel.
Counsel’s declaration does not contain the information required by the
California Rules of Court. 
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion for leave to file an amended
complaint. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint
is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 