 Case Number:  21STCV46345    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46345




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Reconsideration




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Breanna Sprunger




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Oliver Goodman-Waters



 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 2, 2024, this
case was called for trial at 8:30 a.m. There were no appearances by Plaintiff’s
counsel. As a result, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Breanna Sprunger’s
(“Plaintiff”) complaint without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 581(b)(5). (Min. Order, 4/2/24.) 
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for reconsideration of the Court’s dismissal under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. Defendant Oliver Goodman-Waters
(“Defendant”) opposes. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent
part:   
 
“(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.  
 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte
motion.   
… 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a),
(b), (e).)   
 
A motion for
reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new
or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)
However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party
seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information
must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having
to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to
“show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or
different information earlier…”].)¿¿A disagreement with a ruling is not a new
fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)  
 
If the above
statutory requirements are met, reconsideration should be granted. However, a
court is not required to change its decision upon reconsideration. (Corns v.
Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.) Although parties may move for
reconsideration only as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, the
statute “do[es] not limit the court's ability, on its own motion, to reconsider
its prior interim orders so it may correct its own errors.” (Le Francois v.
Goel¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff has not shown that
section 1008 is applicable here since Plaintiff did not make “an application for an order” to the court that was then
denied. (Code Civ. Proc. 1008(a).) Instead, Plaintiff’s counsel admits that he
arrived at the courthouse late, “sometime between 8:35 and 8:40 a.m.” (Castillo
Decl. ¶ 2.) The Court clerk called the case and did not hear any check-ins for
Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 11.) Therefore, there was no “application.” Plaintiff
also fails to show how the fact he was late constitutes a new “fact” to warrant
reconsideration of the dismissal.  
 
Plaintiff
provides no other basis for granting relief from the dismissal. Therefore, the
motion is denied as to section 1008.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 