  Case Number:  20STCV36767    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      DJAMILEH MAHJOBI,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   DAVID E FERMELIA, MD,                           Defendant.   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )            CASE NO.: 20STCV36767   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART DEFENDANT’S    MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES; GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL    FURTHER RESPONSES   Dept. 48 8:30 a.m. February 13, 2024      On September 27, 2021, Plaintiff  Djamileh Mahjobi filed this medical malpractice action against Defendant David E.  Fermelia MD. On  September 15, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel further responses. On  November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses. MULTIPLE MOTIONS AND FILING  FEES Defendant’s  single motion seeks to compel production pursuant to three discovery requests.  Plaintiff’s single motion seeks to compel production  pursuant to two discovery requests.   Each  category of discovery should have been filed as a separate motion, with separate  filing fees and hearing reservations.  Despite  being scheduled as only two motions and two hearings, the total substance is that  of five motions.  This unfairly allows the  parties to take only one hearing reservation each (instead of two or three) and  results in an inaccurate projection and accounting of the Court’s workload and  inconveniences both the court and other litigants.  Both parties are ordered not to do this again  and are warned that continued action of this type may result in monetary  sanctions under CCP Section 177.5. Defendant  is ORDERED to pay two additional filing fees within 10 days. Because  Plaintiff’s Request to Waive Court Fees was granted, the Court will not order Plaintiff’s  payment of additional filing fees. For  any future discovery motions, the parties must file a separate motion for each discovery  request, or the Court may strike or deny the motions for being improperly filed. OTHER  FILING DEFICIENCIES Under  the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, “[e]lectronic documents  must be electronically filed in PDF, text searchable format when technologically  feasible without impairment of the document’s image.” (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00,  at ¶ 6(a).)  The table of contents and all  attachments, including exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d);  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(f)(4).)   Plaintiff’s filings do not comply with these requirements. Additionally,  for a motion to compel further, the moving party must meet and confer with the opposing  party and file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of  outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.310, subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to follow  the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available  on the Court’s website, www.lacourt.org) and file a joint statement.  Neither party complied with these requirements. If  any party continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court may  strike the filings or impose monetary sanctions. DEFENDANT’S  MOTION Defendant  seeks to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories  (Set One), and Request for Production of Documents (Set One). A.        Form Interrogatories A  party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding  party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option  to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit  or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,  subd. (a).) For  Form Rog No. 1.1, Plaintiff responded “N/A.”   If the response is that no one assisted in the preparation of responses,  then Plaintiff should clearly state so. Plaintiff’s  objections to Form Rog Nos. 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2,8, 2.9, 2.10, 4.1, 4.2, 12.1, 12.2,  12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 13.1, 13.2 are overruled.  Plaintiff must provide supplemental responses. Form  Rog Nos. 2.3 and 2.4 request irrelevant information about Plaintiff’s driver’s licenses.  The motion is denied for these items. Form  Rog Nos. 2.6, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8 could lead to the discovery  of relevant evidence for consequential damages.   Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Plaintiff must provide supplemental  responses. Form  Rog No. 2.7 requests irrelevant information about Plaintiff’s education.  The motion is denied for this item. Form  Rog No. 2.11 requests information about whether Plaintiff was acting as an agent  or employee at the time of the incident.   Form Rog No. 2.12 asks if Plaintiff had any disability or condition that  contributed to the occurrence of the incident.   Form Rog No. 2.13 asks if Plaintiff used or consumed various substances before  the incident.  The incident alleged in the  FAC is a surgery that Defendant performed on Plaintiff.  These requests are irrelevant to that incident.  The motion is denied for these items. Form  Rog No. 6.1 asks if Plaintiff attributes any physical, mental, or emotional injuries  to the incident.  Form Rog No. 6.2 asks Plaintiff  to identify each injury.  Form Rog No. 6.3  requests information about any continuing complaints attributed to the incident.  Form Rog No. 6.4 requests information about medical  consultations or examinations.  Form Rog No.  6.5 requests information about medication taken for injuries attributed to the incident.  Form Rog Nos. 6.6 and 6.7 request information  about medical services and treatment because of the incident.  Form Rog No. 10.1 asks if Plaintiff had complaints  or injuries involving the same part of her body prior to the incident.  Form Rog No. 10.2 asks for information about disabilities  before the incident, and Form Rog No. 10.3 asks for information about injuries sustained  after the incident.  Plaintiff has put her  medical condition at issue through her causes of action, and this information is  relevant to Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.   Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Plaintiff must provide supplemental  responses. Form  Rog No. 9.1 asks if Plaintiff has other damages attributed to the incident.  Form Rog No. 9.2 requests information about documents  that support claimed damages.  Plaintiff’s  objections are overruled, and Plaintiff must provide supplemental responses. Form  Rog Nos. 11.1 and 11.2 request information about prior claims or demands for compensation  for personal injuries, including workers’ compensation.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Plaintiff  must provide supplemental responses. Form  Rog Nos. 14.1 and 14.2 request information about where any person involved in the  incident violated any statute, ordinance, or regulation to cause the incident.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Plaintiff  must provide supplemental responses. The  motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above. Plaintiff  is ordered to provide supplemental responses, without objections, to Form Rog Nos.  1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 4.1, 4.2, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7,  8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8, 9.1, 9.2, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 11.1, 11.2,  12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 13.1, 13.2, 14.1, and 14.2 within 30 days. B.        Special Interrogatories Plaintiff’s  objections to Special Rog Nos. 1-37 are overruled.  The requests are relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations  of medical malpractice and her damages.  Plaintiff  has put her medical condition at issue through her causes of action. The  motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff  is ordered to provide supplemental responses, without objections, within 30 days. C.        Requests for Production of Documents A  party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents  if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is  incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,  or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing  good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) Plaintiff’s  objections to RFP Nos. 1-40 are overruled.   The requests are relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations of medical malpractice,  the details of the incident, and her damages.   Plaintiff has put her medical condition at issue through her causes of action. The  motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff  is ordered to provide supplemental responses, without objections, within 30 days. D.        Sanctions The  request for sanctions is DENIED. PLAINTIFF’S MOTION A  party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories or requests for admission  if the demanding party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise  of the option to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection  is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a).) A.        Requests for Admissions For  RFA Nos. 1-3, 5, and 6, Defendant provided boilerplate objections before unequivocal  admissions or denials.  Defendant’s objections  are overruled.  The remaining responses are  complete and compliant.  The motion is denied  for these items. RFA  No. 4 asks Defendant to “Admit that during surgery you unnecessarily removed at  least one healthy parathyroid.”  Defendant’s  objections are overruled, and Defendant must provide supplemental responses. The  motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above. Defendant  is ordered to provide supplemental responses to RFA No. 4, without objections, within  30 days. B.        Special Interrogatories For  Special Rog Nos. 1-3, 8-11, 15 Defendant provided boilerplate objections before  substantively responding.  Defendant’s objections  are overruled.  The remaining responses are  complete and compliant.  The motion is denied  for these items. Special  Rog Nos. 4-6, 12-13 request “with specificity all facts and/or information” and  documents upon which Defendant contends his conduct was within the standard of care  and denies that he was negligent or battered Plaintiff, and the contact information  of people who have knowledge of facts supporting this.  Special Rog. No. 23 requests information about  whether Defendant bruised Plaintiff’s parathyroids.  Defendant’s objection that this requires an  expert opinion to answer is sustained.  All  other objections are overruled.  The motion  is denied without prejudice for these items.   Plaintiff may propound these interrogatories again after expert disclosures  and further expert discovery. Special  Rog No. 7 requests information about the date and location of every parathyroidectimy  that Defendant performed during the past 20 years.  Defendant’s objections for overbreadth are sustained.  The motion is denied for this item. Special  Rog No. 14 asks Defendant to “state with specificity the duration of Surgery.  Hours and minutes, from the time patient was taken  to Operative room to when patient was transferred to Recovery area.”  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  To the extent that Defendant objected on the grounds  of vagueness and ambiguity, the Court orders supplemental responses consistent with  Plaintiff’s explanation: “Hours and minutes, from the time patient was taken to  Operative room to when patient was transferred to Recovery area.”  With that clarification, the motion is granted  for this item. Special  Rog Nos. 16-17 ask why Defendant removed each parathyroid and what he did with each  one after removal.  Special Rog No. 18 asks  why Plaintiff was hospitalized for several days.  Defendant’s objections are overruled, and Defendant  must provide supplemental responses. Special  Rog Nos. 19-22 request information about Defendant meeting with Plaintiff after  surgery.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  For Defendant’s objections based on his inability  to conduct discovery because of Plaintiff’s motions to quash subpoenas, those objections  are also overruled because the Court has already ruled on the motions and no more  remain pending.  Defendant must provide supplemental  responses. The  motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above. Defendant  is ordered to provide supplemental responses to Special Rog Nos. 14, 16, 17, 18,  19, 20, 21, and 22, without objections, within 30 days. C.        Sanctions The  request for sanctions is DENIED. Moving  party to give notice. Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org  indicating intention to submit.  If all parties  in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are  required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)  is also on calendar.             Dated this 13th day of February 2024                     Hon. Thomas D. Long Judge of the Superior    Court        