 Case Number:  22STCV19334    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TIMOTHY PHILIPS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SEIZMIC, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV19334
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 13, 2024



 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Timothy Philips filed a
third amended complaint (“TAC”) against Defendants Seizmic Inc. and Sal Fateen.
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file a fourth amended complaint (“4AC”).

The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiff
provides a redlined copy of the proposed 4AC showing all amendments.  (Mah Decl., Ex. J.)  After meeting and conferring about deficiencies
in the TAC, Defendants agreed to stipulate to the filing of a 4AC, so Plaintiff
sent a joint stipulation and proposed 4AC. 
(Mah Decl. ¶¶ 10-12 & Ex. B.) 
Defendants’ counsel never authorized Plaintiff’s counsel to affix their electronic
signature to the stipulation.  (Mah Decl.
¶¶ 14-17.)
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff’s prior reiteration of Complaints alleges a cause[] of action
for Defendants’ alleged failure to permit inspection or copying wage records under
Labor Code §1198,” but “[t]hese facts were already present in Plaintiff’s original
complaint over two years ago, and “[o]ther than adding this cause of action to his
4AC under a new labor code section, Plaintiff fails to allege any new facts to support
this cause of action.”  (Opposition at pp.
5-6.)  This amendment does not add a new cause
of action.  Although the TAC’s caption did
not identify a cause of action under Labor Code section 226, subdivision (c), the
body of the TAC did.  (See TAC at pp. 24-25.)  “[T]he 4AC cures the defect in the [TAC] as the
TAC’s caption page incorrectly lays out the causes of actions Plaintiff alleges
against Defendants.  The body of the TAC correctly
includes Plaintiff’s Eight Cause of Action to be Defendant’s violation of Labor
Code § 226(c).”  (Reply at p. 2.)
Defendants’
other arguments are primarily about the merits of the 4AC’s allegations.  (See Opposition at pp. 6-11.)  However, the Court does not ordinarily consider
the validity of the proposed amended pleading when determining whether to grant
leave to amend.  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended complaint
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve the 4AC within ten days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 13th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 