 Case Number:  23AHCV01666    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



FINANCIAL CREDIT NETWORK, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GILDARDA
   B. MARTINEZ, et al.,
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01666
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT
   GILDARDA B. MARTINEZ 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   7, 2025



 
On July 21,
2023, plaintiff Financial Credit Network, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Gildarda B. Martinez (“Defendant”) and Javier B. Martinez,
individually and doing business as JL Screens & Doors. 
On
October 11, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling
Defendant to serve discovery responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and
pay $290 in sanctions within 20 days. Plaintiff served a notice of ruling on
the same day. Defendant failed to serve responses or pay sanctions, causing
Plaintiff to file this motion for terminating sanctions on November 15, 2024.
The motion is unopposed.  
Where
a party fails to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c), 2023.010, subd. (c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) The Court may impose a terminating
sanction against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subds. (d), (g).) A terminating sanction may be imposed by an order dismissing
part or all of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(3).) 
The
court should consider the totality of the circumstances, including conduct of
the party to determine if the actions were willful, the detriment to the
propounding party, and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly,
but are justified where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and there is evidence that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules.  (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must
make an express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to
serve the required answers. (Fairfield v.
Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) 

Here, Defendant filed no opposition to
this motion and it is undisputed she failed to serve responses to discovery,
failed to pay monetary sanctions, and disobeyed a court order to do so. Plaintiff
served a Notice of Ruling on Defendant. However, terminating sanctions, in
these circumstances, is too extreme a measure given Defendant’s otherwise
active participation in this case and multiple appearances before the Court. Granting
Plaintiff’s motion and entering Defendant’s default would be considered a
windfall because Plaintiff has not shown how Defendant’s failure to respond to
its Form Interrogatories has hindered their ability to prove their case or
otherwise prejudicial. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration is far too conclusory
for the Court to determine that terminating sanctions are warranted. (Abbott
Decl., ¶
8.) 
The Court notes that Plaintiff has not proposed
alternative evidentiary sanctions nor availed itself, in light of the Court’s
order with respect to deemed admissions, to seek summary judgement.  
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 7th
day of January, 2025
 




 


 




 


     William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 