  Case Number:  22STCV17576    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  73 9/20/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
EFT GLOBAL HOLDINGS v. ALTERNATE HEALTH INC. (22STCV17576)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Saied Kashani 
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Elizabeth Read (Markham Read Zerner LLC)
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER TO ADD
DEFENSE OF PLAINTIFF’S LACK OF CAPACITY TO SUE DUE TO PERMANENTLY REVOKED
CORPORATE STATUS RECENTLY DISCOVERED (filed 8/28/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendant’s Motion
for Leave to Amend Answer to Add Defense of Plaintiff’s Lack of Capacity to Sue
Due to Permanently Revoked Corporate Status Recently Discovered is GRANTED. Defendant must file and serve the
proposed Answer within 10 days of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 27,
2022, Plaintiff EFT Global Holdings dba Sentar Pharmaceuticals (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendant Alternate Health Inc. (“Defendant”).
The Complaint alleges the
following. On or about September 21, 2016, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into
a License Agreement. (Compl., ¶ 5.)
Pursuant to the License Agreement, Plaintiff licensed
certain rights to the Patent Rights to Defendant in return for certain
consideration and Defendant's continued performance of certain obligations. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant did not uphold its part of the License Agreement. (Compl., ¶ 9.) On
October 12, 2017, Defendant filed a claim in which it asserted that the
Licensor Patent Rights are invalid or enforceable, specifically, Defendant
asserted Plaintiff had no patents at all. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Based on the mutual
assent of the parties stated in writing no later than September 12, 2017, and Defendant's
filed claim on October 12, 2017, the License Agreement terminated no later than
October 12, 2017. (Compl., ¶ 17.)
On
August 28, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for Leave to Amend Answer
to Add Defense of Plaintiff’s Lack of Capacity to Sue Due to Permanently
Revoked Corporate Status Recently Discovered, arguing:
·      
Alternate Health only discovered this month and confirmed
officially on August 27, 2024, that EFT Global Holding’s corporate status has
been permanently revoked as of August 23, 2023, one year ago. (Declaration of
Bridget A. Zerner with Exhibit A.)
·      
Lack of capacity to sue is a jurisdictional defect which may be
raised at any time. See The Rossdale Grp., LLC v. Walton, 12 Cal. App. 5th 936,
941–46.
·      
EFT Global Holdings is a Nevada corporation and Nevada revoked
EFT’s corporate status as of 08/01/2023, over a year ago. See Exhibit A to
Zerner Declaration. Thus, EFT does not have the capacity to sue or continue to
litigate in this case at present.
·      
This newly discovered fact, which arose after the time to demur
and answer the complaint had passed and was only recently discovered, is
sufficient grounds to allow Alternate Health to amend its answer to assert the
defense of EFT Global Holding’s lack of capacity to sue. A copy of the
[Proposed] First Amended Answer is attached as Exhibit 1.
 
No
opposition or other response has been filed. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests the Court take judicial notice of the
following: Exhibit A to the Declaration of Bridget A. Zerner which is a
Certificate of Existence with Status of Permanent Revocation issued by the
Secretary of State of the State of Nevada on August 27, 2024.
 
The
court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
B.    
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.” 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend
a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. 
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
C.     Discussion
 
Defendant
moves to amend its Answer to add the defense of Plaintiff’s lack of capacity to
sue due to permanently revoked corporate status, a status only recently
discovered, and which occurred after Defendant answered the complaint.
 
The Court
finds that Defendant’s motion for leave to amend substantially complies with
Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) of the California Rules of Court. Defendant included a
copy of the proposed Answer, and has identified the proposed amendments to be
added. (Zerner Decl., Motion, Ex. 1.) Defendant also provided a separate
declaration specifying the effect of the amendments, why they are necessary and
proper, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Zerner
Decl., ¶¶¿4-7.) Defendant asserts that on or about August 11, 2024, it’s
counsel became aware that another company associated with Paul Edalat, Vivera
Pharmaceuticals Inc., which is involved in separate litigation against Howard
Mann and other Alternate Health entities, had had its corporate status
forfeited by the California Franchise Tax Board and did not give notice to the
parties or court. (Zerner Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant contends this caused
undersigned counsel to question whether another of Edalat’s companies, EFT
Global Holdings d/b/a Sentar Pharmaceuticals, still had an active corporate
status. (Ibid.) Counsel then checked the publicly available State of
Nevada database, which reflected that EFT Global Holdings’ status was
permanently revoked but did not state the date of revocation. (Zerner Dec., ¶
5.) On August 27, 2024, Defendant received a Certificate of Existence with
Status of Permanent Revocation for EFT Global Holdings stating Plaintiff’s
status was permanently revoked
as of
08/01/2023 for failure to file the Annual Filing and to pay the filing fee and penalty. (Zerner Dec., ¶ 6, Ex. A.)
Thus, based on the information regarding Plaintiff’s alleged revoked status, Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff is precluded from litigating and seeks to assert the
defense of lack of capacity to sue. The
Court finds Defendant has sufficiently established that it acquired information
related to the proposed lack of capacity defense subsequent to the filing of
the original answer. 
 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. “A party who
has not timely filed written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an
opportunity to offer oral argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an
inference that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such
cases, the court may hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of
the hearing in order to afford an opportunity for written opposition.” (Id.)
“[T]he rule is patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories
without prior notice to opposing counsel and the court.” (Id.)
 
Based
on the foregoing and the judicial policy favoring amendment, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion
for Leave to Amend Answer to Add Defense of Plaintiff’s Lack of Capacity to Sue
Due to Permanently Revoked Corporate Status Recently Discovered.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion for Leave to Amend Answer to Add Defense of Plaintiff’s
Lack of Capacity to Sue Due to Permanently Revoked Corporate Status Recently
Discovered is GRANTED.
 
Defendant must file and serve the
proposed Answer within 10 days of the date of this order. 