 Case Number:  23STCV25067    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  73 09/20/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BOYAJYAN v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC (23STCV25067)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Lucy Kasparian
(California Lemon Law Center)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Soheyl Tahsildoost (Theta Law Firm)
 
DEFENDANT’S motion to compel arbitration (filed 1/16/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court DENIES
Defendant’s motion to compel the arbitration.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff Artur Boyajyan (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”)
alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability
2.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Fitness
3.     
Breach of Express Warranty
4.     
Failure to Promptly Repurchase Product
5.     
Failure to Commence Repairs Within a
Reasonable Time
6.     
Failure to Complete Repairs Within 30
Days
7.     
Failure to Maintain Sufficient
Service and Repair Facilities
8.     
Failure to Make Service Literature
and Parts Available
9.     
Advertising Defective Merchandise
Without Disclosing Defects
10.  Conversion
11.  Negligence
12.  Violation of Civil Code § 1796.5
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On September 10, 2021, Plaintiff leased a 2021 Mercedes-Benz
S580V4 (the “Vehicle”) which was manufactured, distributed,
or sold by Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) In connection with the lease,
Plaintiff received an express written warranty in which Defendant undertook to
preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the Vehicle or to provide
compensation if there is a failure in utility or performance for a specified
period of time. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) The warranty provided, in
relevant part, that in the event a defect developed with the Vehicle during the
warranty period, Plaintiff could deliver the Vehicle for repair services to
Defendant Warrantor’s representative and the Vehicle would be repaired. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that during the warranty period, the Vehicle contained or
developed various defects. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff notified Defendant
and its representative of the characteristics of the defects, however, the
representative failed to repair the Vehicle, breaching the terms of the written
warranty. (Complaint, ¶ 20.)
 
 
On
January 16, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
arguing:
·       The FAA and CA law requires compliance with the arbitration
agreement.

·       Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the arbitration clause. The allegations in the Plaintiff’s Complaint are all entirely centered
on the purchase and condition of the Vehicle.
·       Defendant has standing to compel arbitration under the lease under the theories of equitable estoppel and
third-party beneficiary standing. 
o  
Third
party beneficiary
§ 
Defendant is an intended third-party beneficiary of the
arbitration provision because it falls within the class of persons or entities
for whom the arbitration provision was intended.
§  Plaintiff’s
claims arise out of and relate directly to the condition of the Vehicle and
Defendant’s alleged liability.
o  
Equitable
estoppel
§ 
Equitable estoppel applies “when the signatory to a written
agreement containing an arbitration clause ‘must rely on the terms of the
written agreement in asserting [its] claims’ against the non-signatory.” (MS
Dealer Service Corp. v. Franklin (11th Cir. 1999) 177 F.3d 942, 947)
§  The Court of
Appeal in Felisilda held that the non-signatory manufacturer could
compel arbitration under equitable estoppel, which allows a non-signatory to
enforce an arbitration agreement when “the causes of action against the
non-signatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying
contract obligations.” (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
486, 495.)
·       Plaintiff’s
claims should be stayed pending arbitration
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends:
·      
Defendant has Failed to Establish an Agreement to Arbitrate
o  
Defendant has not properly authenticated what it purports is the
lease
·       Defendant fails to establish it has standing to enforce the
agreement 
·       Equitable estoppel does not apply
o   Equitable
estoppel does not apply here because Plaintiff brings his claims against Defendant
based on the warranties received directly from Defendant and none of the claims
depend on the existence or terms of the alleged agreement between the parties
·       Defendant is not a third-party beneficiary of the purchase
agreement
o  
The alleged Agreement does not show an express or implied intent
of the parties to benefit Defendant
·      
Grounds Exist for Rescission of the Agreement
o  
Unconscionability
o  
Arbitration is against public policy
·      
Plaintiff attests that he did not agree to arbitrate
these claims. The Court should hold an evidentiary hearing. 
·      
Pre-Dispute Binding Arbitration Violates Boyajyan’s
Constitutional Right to a Jury Trial
·      
Federal law precludes pre-dispute binding arbitration
of warranty disputes
·      
If Defendant Wishes to Compel Arbitration, It Must do
so in Federal Court
·      
The Federal Arbitration Act Does not Apply in State
Court
·       Defendant
has Failed to File a Petition as Required by the California Arbitration Act
 
 In reply, Defendant argues:
·      
Defendant has sufficiently established the existence of the
agreement to arbitrate. As a preliminary matter the court is only required to make a
finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity.
·      
The cases opposite Felsilda
are all under review
·       Defendant has standing to enforce the arbitration under the
lease
o   Equitable estoppel applies
o   Defendant is a third party beneficiary
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
A.      Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
Defendant requests
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on October 13, 2023 in this
matter.
 
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of:
1.      Section 703.5
of Volume 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
2.      Volume 40,
No. 251, cover pages, pages 60168 and 60206-60211, of the Federal Register,
dated December 31, 1975.
3.      Volume 64,
No. 77 of the Federal Register, dated April 22, 1999.
4.      Volume 80,
No. 138, of the Federal Register, dated July 20, 2015.
 
The Court may take judicial notice of
its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.) The court may take judicial notice of “official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of
this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of
the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452,
subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court
judicially notices all of Defendant and Plaintiff’s requests. 
 
B.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court
rules on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s evidence in support of its
motion. 
 
Objections Nos. 1-2: Overruled. 
 
C.      Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
D.     Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 972; see 9 U.S.C. § 2 […an agreement in writing to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract,
transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.”].) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written
agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1330.)  
 
Defendant
has attached to its moving papers what it asserts to be a Lease Agreement,
executed between Plaintiff and the dealer Silver Star AG LTD on or about
September 10, 2021. (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2.) The Agreement contains an
arbitration provision, which states in relevant part:
 
”1. If either you or we choose, any dispute between you and
us will be decided by arbitration and not in court. […] 
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort or otherwise
(including any dispute over the interpretation, scope, or validity of this
lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of any issue), between you and
us or any of our employees, agents , successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to a credit application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or
relationship arising out of this lease shall, at the election of either you or
us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration
and not by a court action. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated on an
individual basis and not as a class action. […]
Any arbitration under this lease shall be governed by the
Federal Arbitration Act (9 USC § 1, et seq.).”
 
(Ameripour
Decl., Ex. 2, p. 4.)¿ The plain
text of this provision indicates that disputes arising from Plaintiff’s
purchase or the condition of the Vehicle are covered by the mandatory
arbitration provision. Thus, as Defendant asserts, Plaintiff’s
claims fall within the scope of the arbitration clause as the allegations in the Plaintiff’s Complaint are all entirely centered
on the purchase and condition of the Vehicle.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant has failed to properly authenticate the Agreement. Plaintiff
argues that under
Evidence Code section 1401, “Authentication of a writing is required before it
may be received in evidence.” “[A] document is authenticated when sufficient
evidence has been produced to sustain a finding that the document is what it
purports to be.” (Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 321.)
 
However, as Defendant points out, for purposes of a petition to
compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of
document authentication. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) The court in Condee states that the petitioner is
not required to introduce the arbitration agreement into evidence or provide
the court with anything more than a copy or recitation of its terms. (Id.
at 219.) The petitioner need only allege the existence of an
agreement. (Ibid. [emphasis in original].) Once the petitioners have
alleged that the agreement exists, the burden shifted to respondents to prove
the falsity of the purported agreement. (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant has met its
initial prima facie burden to show that an agreement to arbitrate exists. 
 
E.      Nonsignatory
Standing
 
Since Defendant has met its initial burden, the Court next
discusses the objections to the enforceability of the Lease Agreement. First,
the Court discusses whether Defendant has nonsignatory standing to enforce the
Agreement. 
 
Here, the agreement is executed solely between Plaintiff and
nonparty Silver Star AG LTD. The right to arbitration may generally only be invoked by
parties to the purported arbitration agreement. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
Yet, Defendant argues that it may
nevertheless enforce the arbitration agreement of the Lease Agreement under the
theories of equitable estoppel and third-party beneficiary standing.  In support, Defendant relies on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC¿(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486.
 
In Felisilda,
the Court of Appeal held that a vehicle buyer who signed an arbitration
provision as part of her vehicle sales contract with the dealer may be
compelled to arbitrate her claim against an automobile manufacturer, even
though the manufacturer was a non-signatory to the sales contract containing
the relevant arbitration provision. (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-497.) The Felisilda Court reasoned that where the
buyer expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle, even against third party non-signatories to the sales contract, and
where the buyer’s claim against the manufacturer relates to the condition of
the vehicle that allegedly violated the contract’s warranty, the buyer is estopped
from refusing to arbitrate. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
However, on
April 4, 2023, the Second Appellate District of the California Court of Appeal
reached a decision contrary to Felisilda in Ochoa. (Ochoa v. Ford
Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 review
granted July 19, 2023, S279969 (“Ochoa”). In Ochoa, the
Court of Appeal expressly declined to follow Felisilda, finding that
equitable estoppel should not apply to compel arbitration in such circumstances
because “manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of a motor
vehicle without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser
and the dealer are independent of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.) The Ochoa Court held that because the
plaintiffs alleged breaches of warranties in violation of the Song-Beverly Act,
rather than violations of the sales contracts’ express terms, the agreement to
arbitrate in the sales contract did not estop the plaintiff from refusing to
arbitrate breach of warranty claims against the manufacturer, who was not a
party to the sales contract.¿ (Id. at p. 1335-1336 (“California law does
not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of a retail
sale contract as part of the sale contract”).)
 
Moreover, several other
appellate decisions on this issue have followed Ochoa, including Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Co., 92
Cal. App. 5th 958, review granted September 20, 2023, S281237; Kielar v.
Superior Court of Placer County (2023) 94 Cal. App. 5th 614, review granted
October 25, 2023, S281937; and Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County
(2023) 95
Cal. App. 5th 264, review granted November 15, 2023,
S282228. In Montemayor, Kielar and Yeh, the courts followed
the holding in Ochoa and rejected Felisilda’s holding
that equitable estoppel applies to enable a non-signatory manufacturer to
enforce an arbitration provision in a sales contract like the contract at issue
in this case. Additionally,
the holdings in these cases are in harmony with federal authority on the same
question. (See Ngo v. BMW of N. Am., LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942,
946.) 
 
Under the doctrine of stare decisis,
superior courts are bound by all published decisions of the Court of Appeal,
but where there is a split in authority, the superior court may choose which
appellate decision to follow. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.) For the
reasons set forth below, the Court finds good cause to follow the holdings in Ochoa,
Montemayor, Kielar and Yeh. 
 
a.       Equitable
Estoppel 
 
The doctrine
of equitable estoppel allows for a nonsignatory party to compel arbitration
“when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in
and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda,
53 Cal.App.5th at 495–496; JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court¿(2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237; Goldman¿v. KPMG, LLP¿(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
209, 217–218; Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co.¿(2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070 [Under equitable estoppel, a party cannot avoid
participation in arbitration, where the party received “a¿direct¿benefit
under¿the contract containing an arbitration clause…”]; Boucher¿v. Alliance
Title Co, Inc.¿(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.) 
 
Here,
Defendant argues that equitable estoppel applies because Plaintiff’s Claims
under Song-Beverly are all
premised on and arise out of the Lease and the resultant warranty obligations
that followed. Defendant further argues the Lease itself is necessarily
intertwined with Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act claims, because without the
Lease, Plaintiff would lack standing to sue under the statute.
 
Plaintiff, in
opposition, argues Defendant’s obligations
under its own express and implied warranties are not imposed by the Lease
Agreement, but rather, arise directly from Defendant’s separate and distinct
warranty obligations. Plaintiff further asserts that
the Agreement explicitly distinguishes between the seller’s warranty
obligations and any warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle
manufacturer may provide. The Agreement states in relevant part:
 
“WE MAKE NO
WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE VEHICLE’S
(OR ANY PART OR ACCESSORY THEREOF) CONDITION, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR
ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE; AND WE MAKE NO OTHER REPRESENTATION OF WARRANTY
WHATSOVER.” 
 
(Ameripour
Decl., Exh. 2, p. 4.)¿ 
 
The Ochoa court
ultimately found that “manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale
of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the
purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at 1334.) The Ochoa court
proceeded to distinguish Felisilda by reading the “third party” language
in the arbitration provision “as a further delineation of the subject matter
of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate” rather than the
parties’ consent to arbitrate claims with nonsignatories to the agreement. (Id.
at 1334–1335 [emphasis in original].) Thus, the Ochoa court found
that the plaintiffs’ claims did not rely on the sales contracts with the
dealership, and therefore equitable estoppel did not apply. (Id. at
1336.) 
 
The Court
exercises its discretion to follow the Court of Appeal’s holding in Ochoa,
particularly where here, as in Ochoa, “the sale contracts include no
warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle sold, nor any
promise of repairs or other remedies in the event problems arise,” and
Plaintiff does not otherwise allege any violation of the Agreement’s express
terms. (Id. at 1335.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant concern
the express manufacturer warranty issued by Defendant, which is independent of
and not “intimately founded in and intertwined with” the Agreement.
Accordingly, equitable estoppel does not apply to allow Defendant to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
b.      Third-Party
Beneficiary 
 
“A contract,
made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any
time before the parties thereto rescind it.” (Civ. Code § 1559.) “Third parties
may enforce a contract with an arbitration provision … where they are intended
third party beneficiaries or are assigned rights under the contract.” (Cohen
v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840,
856.) 
 
To show the
contracting parties intended to benefit it, a third party must show that, under
the express terms of the contract at issue and any other relevant circumstances
under which the contract was made, (1) “the third party would in fact benefit
from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to
provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3) permitting the third party to
enforce the contract “is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the
reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.” (Goonewardene v. ADP,
LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) 
 
Here,
Defendant argues that “reading the contract as a whole, it is clear MBUSA is an
intended third party beneficiary of the arbitration provision because it falls
within the class of persons or entities for whom the arbitration provision was
intended. This is clear given that the claims against MBUSA explicitly arise
out of and relate to the condition of the Vehicle and the ‘resulting’ warranty
relationship that arose out the execution of the Lease.” (Motion, p. 6.)
 
The Ochoa court
discussed the issue of third-party beneficiary standing, and found that “the
sale contracts reflect no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under Goonewardene.”
(Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1338.) The court further
asserted that “if the signatories had intended to benefit [the defendant], such
a purpose would have been easy to articulate,” and the contract’s reference to
“third parties” concerns only “what may be arbitrated, not who
may arbitrate.” (Id. at 1339 [emphasis in original].) 
 
Here, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant is not an intended third-party
beneficiary of the Lease Agreement because the contract specifies that only
Plaintiff or the dealership are entitled to compel arbitration of the claims. (Ameripour
Decl., Exh. 2, p. 4.)¿ Any assertion
that Defendant may “incidentally or remotely” benefit from the contract,
without a further showing of the parties’ specific motivation to provide
Defendant with a benefit under the Agreement, does not render Defendant a
third-party beneficiary to the contract. (Ochoa, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at 1336.) 
 
The Court
follows the reasoning set forth in Ochoa, and notes that if the parties
to the Lease Agreement had intended to benefit Defendant, they could have
easily articulated as such in the contract. (Id. at 1339.) Here, as in Ochoa,
“the parties’ choice of the subject of the disputes they agree to
arbitrate does not evince an intention to benefit nonparties so as to affect who
is entitled to compel arbitration.” (Ibid.) Here, the contractual
language is unambiguous that only Plaintiff or the nonparty dealership may
invoke the arbitration agreement. (Ameripour Decl., Exh. 2, p. 4.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant is not an intended third-party beneficiary to
the Lease Agreement, and therefore cannot compel Plaintiff’s claims to
arbitration. On these
grounds, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. Therefore,
the Court does not discuss Plaintiff’s other arguments opposing Defendant’s
motion. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

For these foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion
to compel arbitration.