 Case Number:  23STCV20961    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  73 09/20/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GHAZARYAN v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC (23STCV20961)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/ moving party:  David Barry
(Barry Law Firm)
Counsel for
Defendant/ opposing party:  Mary Arens
McBride (Erskine Law Group APC)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORY NOS. 1.1, 12.1, 15.1 AND 17.1 (filed 03/19/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory
Nos. 1.1, 12.1, 15.1 and 17.1 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days. 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff Hasmik Ghazaryan filed the instant
action against Defendant General Motors, LLC. 
 
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on September 12,
2023, alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of lmplied Warranty of Merchantability under The
Song-Beverly Act
2.     
Breach of Express Warranty under The Song-Beverly Act
3.     
Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200
 
The FAC alleges the following. On November 28, 2020, Plaintiff
leased a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado 1500, VIN 24 3GCPWCEK3MG 131465 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Vehicle"). (FAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff has presented the Vehicle to Defendants for
repairs of defects, malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or nonconformities
related to: (a) the "Check Engine" warning light illuminating on six
(6) separate occasions; (b) the illumination of the "Check Gages"
warning light; (c) the EV AP system causing poor acceleration; (d) the Vehicle on two (2) separate occasions producing a
popping/rattling noise; (e) erratic and 2 surging RPMs; and (f) the
transmission slipping. (FAC, ¶ 11.)
However, Defendants or their representatives failed to conform the Vehicle to
the applicable warranties because said defects, malfunctions, misadjustments,
and/or nonconformities continue to exist even after a reasonable number of
attempts to repair was given. (FAC, ¶
13.)
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatory nos. 1.1, 12.1, 15.1,
and 17.1, arguing:
·       Defendant’s
responses are not code compliant
·       As to Form
Interrogatory Nos. 1.1 and 12.1, Defendant fails to identify individuals
·       Form
Interrogatory Nos. 15.1 and 17.1, Defendant broadly states that “investigation
is ongoing” and that a right to supplement or amend is reserved. Either
Defendant has facts, documents and witnesses that support its general denial,
affirmative defenses, and refusal to make unqualified admissions, or it does
not
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff did
not meet and confer in good faith
·       Defendant’s
answers are code compliant. There is nothing more for the Court to order
Defendant to compel.
 
Plaintiff filed a reply, arguing:
·       Plaintiff met
and conferred in good faith
·       Defendant
GM’s responses to Form Interrogatory 1.1, 12.1, 15.1, and 17.1 almost
exclusively rely upon the document production option in lieu of a response
allowed under section 2030.230 of the Code of Civil Procedure. However, as
framed, Defendant’s responses are not appropriate
·       Defendant
Fails To Substantiate its objections
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action
written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿ CCP § 2030.010(a).¿
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.”¿ CCP § 2030.260(a).¿ 
¿ 
“The party to
whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered. (2) An exercise of the
party's option to produce writings. (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.”¿ CCP § 2030.210(a).¿ “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”¿ CCP §
2030.220(c).¿ 
¿ 
“On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
¿ 
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(c).¿“[T]he time limitations set forth
in section 2030 and section 2034, subdivision (a) [are] mandatory and [when]
not met, the trial court's order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿(Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
B.      Meet and
Confer
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel states he sent a meet and confer letter to Defendant's counsel
regarding deficiencies with the discovery responses at issue. (Kim Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel states the
parties met and confirmed telephonically on March 6, 2024 and that he sent a
follow up email on March 8, 2024. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) However, Plaintiffs’ counsel states Defendant has not
responded. (Kim Decl., ¶ 12.)
 
The Court
finds the moving party has met its meet and confer obligation. Accordingly, the
Court will consider the merits of the motion.
 
C.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatory
Nos. 1.1, 12.1, 15.1 and 17.1.
 
a.       Form
Interrogatory No. 1.1
 
Interrogatory
1.1: State the
name, ADDRESS, telephone number, and relationship to you of each PERSON who
prepared or assisted in the preparation of the responses to these
interrogatories. (Do not identify anyone who simply typed or reproduced the
responses.)
 
Defendant
states in response: GM is a corporate defendant; therefore, these answers were
not prepared by any one person. These answers, prepared with assistance from
GM’s counsel listed above, have been verified by authorized representative of
GM.
 
The Court
finds further response is warranted. Plaintiff asserts he is entitled to the
identity and contact information of potential witnesses, including the names of
all persons that assisted Defendant in preparing the responses. Here, Defendant
does not provide the name or identification of anyone who assisted in preparing
the party’s responses to the interrogatory set. For example, Defendant merely
states the answers were verified by an authorized representative of GM, but
fails to identify or provide any further information. 
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No.
1.1. 
 
b.      Form
Interrogatory No. 12.1
 
Interrogatory
12.1: State the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each individual: 
(a) who witnessed the INCIDENT or the events occurring immediately
before or after the INCIDENT; 
(b) who made any statement at the scene of the INCIDENT; 
(c) who heard any statements made about the INCIDENT by any
individual at the scene; and 
(d) who YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of
the INCIDENT (except for expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034).
 
Defendant
objects, stating that the term “incident” is vague and ambiguous. However,
Plaintiff states it clarified in meet and confer correspondence that “key
percipient witnesses will include dealership personnel at Defendant’s
authorized repair facilities and those involved in handling Plaintiff’s
complaints and any investigation of whether to repurchase or replace
Plaintiff’s vehicle.” (Motion, p. 3.) 
 
Defendant refers
Plaintiff to documents produced in which Plaintiff may identify the individuals
with the information sought: any incidentally obtained repair orders, the
Repair Order Details, Service Request Activity Report(s), and the Global
Warranty History Report regarding the Subject Vehicle. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the individuals called for in item 12.1 are percipient witnesses.
Plaintiff has a right to know who those persons are in order to
determine if one or more of them should be deposed.
 
The Court
finds further response is warranted. As Plaintiff asserts, the documents that
Defendant refers Plaintiff to do not contain the information sought on their
face. For example, repair orders only identify technicians by their “tech
numbers”. Thus, due to the nature of the relationship between GM and its
dealerships as GM’s authorized agents and representatives, and the fact that GM
issues General Motors Identification Numbers, or “GMINs” to dealership
employees, GM remains in the best position to identify the individuals who
performed warranty services on Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No.
12.1.
 
c.       Form
Interrogatory No. 15.1
 
Interrogatory
15.1: Identify each
denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your
pleadings and for each: 
(a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or special or
affirmative defense; 
(b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all
PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(c) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support
your denial or special or affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.
 
Defendant
states in response: GM’s investigation and discovery into this matter is
ongoing. Indeed, it has not had an opportunity to depose Plaintiff, or inspect
the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Consequently, it is not possible at this time to state all
facts upon which GM bases its denials and affirmative defenses, which GM
asserted to preserve them. In addition, documents and the identities of persons
with knowledge of facts supporting GM’s denials and affirmative defenses are
not completely known at this time. Some of these witnesses may include experts.
Answering further, GM intends to rely upon the documents it is producing in
response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents. GM reserves the
right to supplement or amend this Response during the course of this
proceeding.
 
The Court
finds further response is warranted. Defendant’s response is evasive and
incomplete. “[I]nterrogatories are designed to permit discovery of all facts
‘presently known to a defendant upon which it predicates its defenses.” (Burke
v. Superior Court of Sacramento County (1969) 71 Cal.2d 276, 285. See also Singer
v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1960) 54 Cal.2d 318, 326 (“The
three questioned interrogatories merely call for the facts this defendant now
knows that support its pleaded defenses.”).) Thus, Defendant must specifically
respond to each subsection of the form interrogatory with all information
currently known to Defendant.
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No.
15.1.
 
d.      Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1
 
Interrogatory
17.1: Is your
response to each request for admission served with these interrogatories an
unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not an unqualified
admission: 
(a) state the number of the request; 
(b) state all facts upon which you base your response; 
(c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all
PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(d) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support
your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON
who has each DOCUMENT or thing.
 
Defendant
states in response: GM
incorporates its responses and objections to Plaintiff’s First Request for
Admissions, which are self-explanatory. GM LLC has appropriately responded to
each Request for Admissions by reasonably and clearly qualifying its responses
as required by the California Code of Civil Procedure; therefore, GM objects to
this interrogatory to the extent it seeks an additional or further response. GM
also objects on the grounds the interrogatory is overly broad and unduly
burdensome. GM’s investigation, including discovery in this action, is
incomplete and ongoing. Without waiving these objections, GM states as follows:
No 
(a) Request 1-89. 
(b)-(c) At this time, GM has not yet deposed the Plaintiff or
inspected the subject vehicle as part of this litigation. GM investigation and
discovery into this matter are ongoing and, consequently, it is not possible at
this time to state all facts upon which GM bases its denials and affirmative
defenses. Further, documents and the identities of persons with knowledge of
facts supporting GM denials and affirmative defenses are not completely known
at this time. Some of these witnesses may include experts. Additional
investigation and discovery are necessary before the referenced facts,
documents and persons can be fully ascertained and provided. 
(d) Beyond the facts, information, and documents that are within
the custody and control of Plaintiff, GM refers Plaintiff to the following
documents produced in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents: Vehicle Product Brochure, New Vehicle Limited Warranty Booklet,
Owner’s Manual, any incidentally obtained repair orders, any Service Request
Activity Report(s), and the Global Warranty History Report applicable to the
SUBJECT VEHICLE
 
The Court
finds further response is warranted. Defendant’s response is evasive and
incomplete. “[I]nterrogatories are designed to permit discovery of all facts
‘presently known to a defendant upon which it predicates its defenses.” (Burke
v. Superior Court of Sacramento County (1969) 71 Cal.2d 276, 285. See also Singer
v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1960) 54 Cal.2d 318, 326 (“The
three questioned interrogatories merely call for the facts this defendant now
knows that support its pleaded defenses.”).) Thus, Defendant must specifically
respond to each subsection of the form interrogatory with all information
currently known to Defendant.
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Form Interrogatory No.
17.1. 
 
DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatory Nos. 1.1, 12.1, 15.1 and 17.1 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide code-compliant responses within
30 days. 