 Case Number:  23LBCV00537    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Glovis America, Inc.
filed this action against Defendants, Sehee Corp., Del Amo Petroleum, and Syed
Faizi for breach of contract, breach of guarantee, and related claims.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Depositions
Plaintiff has been attempting to
conduct the deposition of Faizi, both in his individual capacity and also in
his capacity as principal of Sehee. 
Faizi has suffered from numerous health problems, which has rendered scheduling
the deposition impossible.  
 
The parties are now running up
against a trial date (7/15/24), and there is therefore urgency to conducting
the deposition or having the trial date continued.  Plaintiff does not wish to endure a lengthy
trial continuance, as the case has been pending for over a year and substantial
money is at issue.  
 
Defendants have provided evidence
that Faizi has ongoing chronic bronchitis and pneumonia.  Plaintiff does not, in reply, contest this
evidence.  Faizi seeks an indefinite
trial continuance until his doctor clears him for deposition and trial.  Plaintiff, in reply, asks that the Court
schedule the deposition for a date on or before 7/15/24 and then schedule the
trial date 30-60 days thereafter.
 
The Court cannot predict exactly
whether and when Faizi will recover from his ongoing illness.  The Court will therefore not order the
deposition to go forward on a date certain. 
The Court, instead, will continue the trial date from 7/15/24 to
9/16/24, and continue the FSC date from 7/12/24 to 9/13/24.  The discovery cut-off is NOT extended to
correspond to the new trial date, with the exception of the at-issue
depositions.  The parties must continue
to communicate and schedule the depositions as soon as possible once Faizi’s
health is sufficiently improved to permit him to sit for deposition.  Defense Counsel must continue to provide
updated health information and medical records, as necessary, to Plaintiff’s
attorney as Faizi’s health continues to be monitored.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   