 Case Number:  23LBCV00552    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Marcus Miller and Angie Muhamad filed this action against
Defendants, Brand Scaffold Services, Inc. and The AES Corporation for damages
arising out of injuries sustained in a workplace accident at AES’s power plant
in Puerto Rico.  Miller, who is a
California resident and employee of a California corporation, was injured in
the incident.  
 
2.    
Motion to Quash
The Court was previously scheduled
to hear this motion on 5/02/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling denying the motion.  After oral argument, the Court continued the
hearing on the motion to permit the parties to brief (a) Defendants’ waiver of
the statute of limitations, and (b) Plaintiff’s medical treatment in
California.  The purpose of this further
briefing was to assess the forum non conveniens aspect of the motion.
 
Defendants submitted a further
brief on 5/28/24, wherein they argue that imposition of personal jurisdiction
over them is improper.  They indicate
they will not waive the one-year statute of limitations in Puerto Rice on
personal injury claims.  Plaintiff
submitted a further brief on 6/07/24, wherein they correctly note that
Defendants were NOT asked to brief the Court’s analysis re: imposition of
personal jurisdiction, but were ONLY asked to brief the two limited forum non
conveniens issues.  Plaintiff contends
that, in light of Defendants’ overt statement that they will not waive the
one-year statute of limitations in Puerto Rico, the Court cannot dismiss the
claim based on forum non conveniens. 
Additionally, Plaintiff provides evidence re: medical treatment in
California.  On 6/14/24, Defendants
submitted another brief, wherein they again argue the Court’s analysis re:
imposition of personal jurisdiction was wrong. 
They again indicate they will not waive the statute of limitations in
Puerto Rico, and they concede the case cannot be dismissed based on forum non
conveniens grounds in light of their refusal. 
On 6/21/24, Plaintiff submitted a reply to the 6/14/24 brief, again
correctly noting that Defendants focused on issues the Court did not ask them
to brief.
 
The Court incorporates its 5/02/24
analysis re: the motion to quash due to lack of personal jurisdiction into this
order in full and denies the motion to quash. 
The Court also incorporates its analysis re: forum non conveniens into
this order in full; because Defendants will not agree to waive the one-year
statute of limitations in Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico is not a suitable
alternative forum, and the Court denies the alternative motion to dismiss based
on the doctrine of forum non conveniens. 
The motion is denied in its entirety. 

 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   