 Case Number:  23LBCV00109    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Lauren Watkins filed
this action against Defendants, Ralphs Grocery Company and The Kroger Co. for
damages arising out of a slip and fall. 
Plaintiff’s friend, Jose Cruz Cisneros, was present when she fell.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena
Defendant seeks an order compelling
Cisneros to appear for deposition. 
Defendant personally served Cisneros with a deposition subpoena for
personal appearance at deposition, but he failed to appear.  Defendant also seeks an order precluding
Cisneros from testifying at trial if he fails to appear for his deposition
after the Court orders him to do so.
 
Defendant filed proof of service of
the moving papers on Plaintiff.  It
failed, however, to file proof of service of the moving papers on Cisneros, the
third party upon whom the subpoena was propounded.  Per CRC 3.1346, all moving papers must be personally
served on the non-party deponent in connection with a motion to compel a
non-party witness to comply with a deposition subpoena.  The motion is therefore summarily denied
without prejudice due to the failure to serve the moving papers properly.
 
If Defendant appears at the hearing
and establishes it personally served Cisneros with the moving papers, the
motion to compel him to appear at his deposition will be granted.  Defendant will be ordered to personally serve
a deposition subpoena on Cisneros, along with the court order compelling the
deposition, and to schedule the deposition for at least five days after
personal service.  The Court will not
grant the request for evidentiary sanctions, as it is premature, both because
lesser sanctions have not yet been imposed and also because there has not yet
been a violation of a court order.  
 
If the parties submit on the
tentative, the motion will be denied due to lack of proof of personal service
of the moving papers, as indicated above.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   