  Case Number:  20LBCV00504    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Tokio Marine America Insurance Company filed this action
against Defendant, Prestig, Inc. for carrier liability under the Carmack
Amendment.  Plaintiff filed its original
complaint on 11/19/20 and its operative First Amended Complaint on
1/19/21.  
 
Plaintiff alleges it insured Panasonic Corporation.  Defendant received a shipment of 1024 cartons
of lithium ion batteries from Panasonic in Carson and was charged with taking
the shipment to Kansas City.  However,
the rig carrying the batteries was involved in a single vehicle accident,
resulting in the vehicle over-turning and damaging the batteries.  Plaintiff alleges it suffered loss in the
amount of $620,199.27, as it had to pay its insured for the damage to its
goods.
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

Burdens on Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Defendant, with its moving papers, seeks judicial notice of ten various
documents.  The Court takes judicial
notice of the fact that these documents are what they purport to be, but not of
the truth of the matter asserted in any of the documents.  
 

Evidentiary Objections

Plaintiff filed evidentiary
objections with its opposition papers. 
The first objection is overruled, but again, the Court is considering
the document only as evidence that it is what it purports to be, and not as evidence
of the truth asserted in the document.  
 
The remaining objections are
overruled.  
 

Parties’ Positions

Defendant moves for summary
judgment on the complaint, contending (a) the Coverage of Goods at Sea Act (“COGSA”)
and not the Carmack Amendment governs the present action, and thus the sole
cause of action pled under the Carmack Amendment cannot support imposition of
liability, and (b) any potential COGSA claim would be barred by the contractual
claim presentation provision in the subject waybill and the statute of
limitations in COGSA.  Alternatively, it
seeks summary adjudication of the issue of liability, specifically what
constitutes a “package” under the subject waybill.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, argues the moving papers erroneously rely on waybill ONEDL9CK0425400,
when the waybill that governs the parties’ case is ONEDL9CK0425401.  Plaintiff contends Defendant has not submitted
admissible evidence showing that waybill ONEDL9CK0425400 applies, and even if
it has, there are triable issues concerning whether ONEDL9CK0425401, as opposed
to ONEDL9CK0425400, applies.  It contends
the request for summary adjudication is procedurally improper because it would
not fully dispose of a cause of action, issue of duty, or affirmative defense.
 
Defendant, in reply, contends it
set forth sufficient evidence to establish ONEDL9CK0425400 applies, and
Plaintiff’s evidence to the contrary fails to raise a triable issue of material
fact.  Alternatively, it contends that,
even if ONEDL9CK0425401 applies, liability under that waybill is also governed
by COGSA and cannot support a claim under Carmack.  
 

 ONEDL9CK0425400 or ONEDL9CK0425401

The threshold question before the
Court is whether waybill ONEDL9CK0425400 or ONEDL9CK0425401 applies to this
action.  Defendant contends
ONEDL9CK0425400 applies, and Plaintiff contends ONEDL9CK0425401 applies.  
 
The Court finds there are triable
issues of material fact in this regard. 
As Plaintiff correctly notes in opposition, Defendant’s own president,
Lubomir Anguelov, on 2/18/21 and in connection with this action, provided a
declaration stating that the subject goods were delivered pursuant to waybill
ONEDL9CK0425401.  Defendant, in reply,
provides extensive analysis of why ONEDL9CK0425401 is not the correct waybill;
this analysis, however, only further shows why there are issues of material
fact to be determined in this regard, which issues are not suitable for summary
judgment.  
 

ONEDL9CK0425401

Defendant, in reply, argues that
ONEDL9CK0425401, even if it does apply, contains the same language as
ONEDL9CK0425400, and therefore can only support liability pursuant to COGSA,
not the Carmack Amendment.  It cites
Clause 26.1 of ONEDL9CK0425401 in support of its position.  The Court, in searching through the parties’
evidence, cannot locate Clause 26.1 in connection with waybill ONEDL9CK0425401.  The only place the Court can locate Clause
26.1 is at page 188 of the document entitled Declaration of Glazier.  Clause 26.1 is cut off.  Additionally, it is not clear that Clause
26.1 is part of waybill ONEDL9CK0425401. 
Clause 26.1 is part of Exhibit F to the Anguelov Declaration, dated
2/17/21, which is Exhibit H to the Declaration of Glazier.  Anguelov declares, at ¶7, that Exhibit A is a
copy of waybill ONEDL9CK0425401, which forms the basis of this lawsuit.  He then authenticates Exhibits B, C, D, and E
to his declaration.  He never mentions
Exhibit F anywhere in his declaration. 
There is, therefore, no evidence submitted to establish that Clause 26.1
is a part of waybill ONEDL9CK0425401.  
 

Conclusion

Defendant’s entire argument is that
the parties’ relationship is governed by waybill ONEDL9CK0425400, which
contains clause 26.1, and/or that even if it is governed by waybill
ONEDL9CK0425401, that waybill stills contains clause 26.1, and therefore the COGSA,
not the Carmack Amendment, applies. 
Because there are triable issues of material fact concerning whether
waybill ONEDL9CK0425400 or ONEDL9CK0425401 governs the parties’ relationship,
and because Defendant failed to meet its burden to show waybill ONEDL9CK0425401
contains clause 26.1, the motion for summary judgment is denied.
 

Alternative Motion for
     Summary Adjudication

Defendant seeks summary
adjudication in the alternative. 
Defendant’s notice of motion indicates it seeks adjudication as follows:
If for any reason summary judgment
cannot be granted, Defendant PTI further moves separately or as an alternative
to its Motion for Summary Judgment, for an order granting its Motion for
Summary Adjudication that establishes in favor of PTI that: PTI is entitled to
a summary adjudication on the issue of liability, to wit, what constitutes a
‘Package’ under the ONE Sea Waybill. Pursuant to Rule 3.1350(b) PTI states as
follows: Cause of Action subject to Motion for Summary Adjudication:
Plaintiff’s first and only cause of action for “Liability under the ICC
Termination Act, formerly known as the Carmack Amendment, 49 U.S.C. §14706, et
seq.” Summary Adjudication Issue No. 1: What constitutes a ‘Package’ under the
ONE Sea Waybill and the ONE Terms and Conditions of Carriage
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, correctly notes that Defendant’s stated issue is not the type of issue
that can be adjudicated pursuant to CCP §437c(f), which provides, “A party may
move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has
no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that
there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the
Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to
the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted
only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
 
Defendant contends, in reply, that
Plaintiff failed to address the issue and therefore waived any response.  Defendant is incorrect.  Plaintiff addressed the issue, correctly noting
that it is not appropriate for summary adjudication per Code.  The alternative summary adjudication motion
is denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   