 Case Number:  23LBCP00142    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
On 3/23/23, Rafael Zuniga, Hearing
Officer, issued a decision against Charles White and in favor of UPS in
connection with White’s Labor Commission claim. 
On 4/17/23, White filed this appeal of the decision.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses
a.    
Background of Dispute
UPS propounded RPDs on White, and
White responded.  UPS believes the
responses are insufficient.  Despite
attempts to meet and confer, the parties were unable to resolve the issues, and
therefore UPS filed this motion.  
 
b.    
RPDs at Issue
The RPDs at issue are as follows:
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
NO. 1 Any and all COMMUNICATIONS (other than with YOUR attorneys), including
but not limited to, paper correspondence, electronic correspondence, email
(including attachments), text messages (and similar technology), posts on
social media platforms, and notes of conversations, whether paper or
electronic, between November 1, 2017, and the present RELATED to the
allegations set forth in YOUR COMPLAINT.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
NO. 2 Any and all COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and Teresa Akune, including but
not limited to, paper correspondence, electronic correspondence, email
(including attachments), text messages (and similar technology), posts on
social media platforms, and notes of conversations, whether paper or
electronic, between November 1, 2017, and the present RELATED to YOUR
employment with Respondent.  
 
RPDs 3-12 are the same as RPD 2 but
list different individuals.  
 
c.    
Crux of Dispute
Commencing in 2020, White purported
to “represent” other employees of UPS and sent demand letters to UPS on their
behalf.  At the end of 2020, the State
Bar issued a cease and desist letter admonishing White that he was engaging in
the unauthorized practice of law and must stop purporting to represent other
employees.  During discovery in the
underlying labor commissioner dispute, as well as in connection with this
appeal, White has identified the persons he previously “represented” as
witnesses to his claims against UPS.  UPS
therefore argues White must provide communications with those persons in
response to its RPDs.
 
White, in opposition to the motion,
contends the RPDs do not ask for those communications, and cannot be reasonably
expanded to include those communications. 
He therefore contends his responses are full and complete and there is
nothing additional necessary in response to the RPDs.
 
d.     Analysis
            RPD 1 seeks documents relating to
“YOUR complaint.”  UPS argues the
requested documents are “relevant.”  The
inquiry, however, is not whether they are relevant, but whether they were
requested.  It then argues the other
employees’ labor commissioner claims are legally “related” to White’s claims,
such that the communications with the other employees are material to proving
or disproving the issues in this case.    
 
            RPD 1
sought documents “RELATED to the allegations set forth in YOUR COMPLAINT.”  The definitions section of the RPDs defines
“YOUR COMPLAINT” to mean the operative Complaint before the Department of
Industrial Relation’s Labor Commissioner’s Office.  The Court agrees with UPS and finds that
communications with other employees, whom White intends to call as witnesses at
trial, would be “related to the allegations set forth in his complaint.”  A further response to RPD 1 is therefore
required, and White must ultimately produce all communications with third
parties that relate to the allegations set forth in his complaint.  
 
            RPDs 2-12
seek documents relating to “YOUR employment.” 
The Court finds that communications with other persons relating to their
claims, as opposed to White’s claims, are not responsive to these RPDs.  These RPDs specifically seek communications
between White and third parties related to White’s employment.  It is unclear how communications between
White and the third parties relating to third parties’ employment would be
responsive to these RPDs.  The motion to
compel a further response to RPDs 2-12 is therefore denied.
e.    
Sanctions
UPS does not seek sanctions in
connection with the moving papers.  White
seeks sanctions in connection with the opposition.  The Court notes that the motion is granted in
part and denied in part as set forth fully above.  The Court also finds both parties took their
positions in good faith and with substantial justification.  No sanctions are imposed.
 
f.     
Conclusion
The motion to compel a further
response to RPD 1 is granted.  The motion
is otherwise denied.  No sanctions are
imposed.  White must serve a further
response to RPD 1 within ten days.  The
parties must meet and confer to agree upon a date and time for production after
further responses are served; the Court admonishes White that production must
be swift, in light of the fast-approaching trial date.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   