 Case Number:  23LBCV00209    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Babken Gabrielyan filed this action against Defendants, SAI
Long Beach B, Inc. dba Long Beach BMW, Brooke Ashley Baker, and Rita Regalado
for damages arising out of an automobile accident.  There are cross-complaints and a consolidated
action arising out of the same accident. 

 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment

Burdens on Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Regalado filed a request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint
and Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint.  The RJN is unnecessary, as the Court looks to
all papers filed in the action when ruling on a summary judgment motion.
 

Evidentiary Objections

Plaintiff filed an objection to
SAI’s separate statement.  The objection
is overruled.  Both opposing parties
filed objections to SAI’s submitted evidence with the moving papers.  SAI filed objections to both parties’
evidence submitted in opposition to the motion. 
The ruling on the motion does not turn on a ruling on the objections,
and therefore the Court declines to rule on them.  CCP §437c(q).
 

Parties’ Positions

SAI moves for summary judgment on
the complaint, contending its employee, Defendant Baker, was on a break at the
time of the incident and doing a personal errand such that vicarious liability
does not apply.  
 
Plaintiff and Co-Defendant Regalado
oppose the motion.  They argue (a) the
complaint alleges both vicarious and direct liability, and SAI did not defeat
the direct liability claim, (b) to the extent the complaint cannot be read to
state a direct liability claim, Plaintiff has a pending motion for leave to
amend to add a direct liability claim, and (c) SAI is vicariously liable for
Baker’s accident because Baker was moving the car at the direction or and/or
for the benefit of SAI.  
 
SAI, in reply, argues direct
liability is not pled, and Plaintiff cannot amend the complaint at this late
stage of the proceedings to avoid summary judgment.  It contends the undisputed facts show Baker
was moving her car for her own personal purposes and not for its benefit or at
its direction.  

 Undisputed Facts

The basic facts relating to this
case are not in dispute.  Baker was an
employee of SAI at the time of the subject collision.  Baker was provided employee parking in the
SAI parking lot, but the parking was tandem, and sometimes it was difficult to
leave in the evening due to the nature of the parking.  She was not required to park in the employee
lot, and was allowed to park on the street. 
On the morning of the incident, she parked in the employee lot, but she
used her ten-minute break to move her vehicle to the street because she was
planning to leave early that day for vacation and did not want to be blocked
into the lot by another employee’s vehicle. 
While moving the vehicle, the parties were involved in the subject
collision.    
 

Vogt v. Herron
     Construction, Inc.

The Court will consider the last
issue first – whether Plaintiff’s claim for respondent superior liability
presents factual issues that should go to the jury.  The parties discuss the holding of Vogt v.
Herron Construction, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App4th 643 in connection with this
issue.  Vogt is a comprehensive opinion
and the Court has reviewed it at length. 

 
In Vogt, there were subcontractors
working on a construction project.  Cruz
worked for a framing contractor and parked his personal car at the
worksite.  Nobody told him where to
park.  Vogt worked for a concrete
subcontractor.  Vogt asked Cruz to move
his truck so they could pour concrete. 
Cruz did so, and in the process ran over Vogt.  Cruz’s employer, Herron, argued there could
be no respondent superior-based liability because it did not direct Cruz to
move his truck and it did not benefit from Cruz moving his truck.  
 
The trial court granted summary
judgment, but the court of appeals reversed. 
It held that acts necessary to the comfort, convenience, health, and
welfare of an employee while at work, though strictly personal and not acts of
service, would not take the employee out of the scope of employment.  It held that, when an employee’s act benefits
both the employee and also the employer, the employee is not outside the scope
of employment.  
 
It distinguished the facts of the
case from the facts in Bailey v. Filco, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1552, the primary case upon which Moving Defendant SAI relies in this
case.  In Bailey, the employee used her
10- to 15-minute break to go and purchase cookies to bring back to work.  The jury found the employee was not in the
scope of her employment, and the court of appeals affirmed.  The court of appeals found the deviation
substantial because the employee did more than just stop her work for a minute
to take a bite of a cookie, but instead, during a break, got in her own car and
drove off premises into a four-lane thoroughfare to purchase cookies to eat
back at work.  
 
The Cruz Court went on, however, to
discuss and distinguish Avila v. Standard Oil Co. (1986) 167 Cal.App.4th
441, 444-445 from Bailey.  In Avila, two
employees worked at a gas station.  One
employee had supervisorial permission to keep his motorcycle at the station,
and to fix it up there on days off; the employees were not, however, permitted
to work on the motorcycle during work days. 
During work, one of the employees left the station to buy wire to work
on the motorcycle.  The employee got into
an accident.  The trial court granted
summary judgment in favor of the employer, but the court of appeals
reversed.  It held the test was
foreseeability, and noted that the employee’s conduct was not so unusual or
startling as to preclude employer liability.
 
The instant case is not on all
fours with any of the above cases.  The
Court finds, however, that it is more closely analogous to Cruz and Avila than
it is to Bailey.  The employee was acting
for her own comfort, but was doing so in a way that was foreseeable in light of
the fact that her car could otherwise be blocked in at the end of the day when
she needed to leave quickly.  The tandem
parking clearly served a benefit to the employer, because it could save more
convenient parking spaces for customers. 
Importantly, Bailey was decided not on summary judgment, but instead
after a jury trial.  The Court finds it
is for the jury to determine whether Baker, in this case, so substantially
deviated from her job duties when she moved her car as to preclude liability,
or whether her acts were sufficiently foreseeable and related to her work
duties so as to impose liability.  
 

Direct Liability

Because the Court finds there are
triable issues of material fact concerning vicarious liability, the Court
declines to determine whether Plaintiff pled a direct liability claim and/or
should be permitted leave to do so.  The
Court notes that Plaintiff has a motion for leave to amend scheduled for
hearing on 9/17/24, which is after the trial date of 9/03/24.  The Court is not making any ruling relating
to the motion for leave to amend at this time. 

 

Alternative Motion for
     Summary Adjudication

SAI seeks summary adjudication in
the alternative.  Specifically, it seeks
summary adjudication of each of the two causes of action (negligence and
negligence per se) pled in the complaint. 
It does not provide any additional argument in support of his MSA over
and above the argument in support of its MSJ. 
The alternative motion for summary adjudication is therefore also
denied.
 

Final Note

SAI sought summary
judgment/adjudication not only on the complaint, but also on Regalado’s
consolidated complaint and on the cross-complaints of Regalado, Gabrielyan, and
Navasardyan.  
 
In its reply, it contends the only
oppositions filed were by Gabrielyan in his capacity as a plaintiff and
Regalado in her capacity as a co-defendant. 
It therefore argues the motion should be granted as to Regalado’s
consolidated complaint, as well as all cross-complaints.  The Court finds the triable issues of
material fact presented in the two sets of opposition papers filed by
Gabrielyan and Regalado apply equally to all complaint and cross-complaints
against SAI, and therefore the motion is denied in its entirety.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   