 Case Number:  23LBCV00268    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Raul Field Escandon
filed this action against Defendants, Universal Iron Works, Appleby Property
Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association, Ara Agopian, and HOA Board of
Directors on 2/21/23.  Plaintiff’s operative
First Amended Complaint includes various causes of action and spans 78
pages.  Plaintiff seeks an injunction
providing for various forms of relief, and also seeks compensatory
damages.  
 
On 2/13/24, the Court sustained
Moving Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend and entered judgment in
Moving Defendant’s favor.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Basis for Relief Sought
Defendant moves for an award of
attorneys’ fees expended in connection with the defense of this action.  He moves pursuant to the governing
CC&Rs.  §14.06 of the CC&Rs
provides, “In any legal action by an Owner(s) or the Association to enforce any
provision of the Governing Documents, the prevailing party shall be awarded
reasonable costs (including attorney’s fees).” 

 
He also moves pursuant to the
Davis-Stirling Common Act, found at Civil Code §5975(c), which states, “In an
action to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall be
awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.” 

 
b.    
Entitlement to Fees
The Court previously found, in
connection with Co-Defendants’ motion for attorneys’ fees on 3/26/24, that the
governing documents and Davis-Sterling Act apply and support an attorneys’ fees
award in favor of the prevailing parties. 
The Court adopts its 3/26/24 analysis by reference and makes the same
finding in connection with Moving Defendant’s motion.  The Court notes the lack of opposition to the
motion.
 
c.     Amount
of Fees
            Defendant seeks to recover fees in
the amount of $6336.80.  He supports his
request with the Declaration of Philip C. Zvonicek, one of the attorneys who
has represented him in his defense of this action.  Zvonicek attaches, as Exhibits C and D
respectively, the billing statements and summary of billing in this
matter.  The Court has examined the
billing statements and finds the hours billed and hourly rates are prima facie
reasonable.  In the absence of
opposition, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to recover the full amount of
fees sought by way of this motion.  
 
d.    
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for attorneys’
fees is granted.  Defendant is awarded his
fees incurred in the requested amount of $6336.80.  The Court will interlineate the judgment to
reflect the award of fees.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   