 Case Number:  23VECV01656    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




  
Jan Weissman
  et al,
 
 
           Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
Craig
  Vandagriff Construction et al. 
 
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
23VECV01656                    107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 
Demurrer with Motion
  to Strike  
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On or about April 4, 2022, Plaintiff Jan Weissman and Defendant
Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc. entered into a home improvement contract
(the “Contract”) where Defendant Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc. agreed to
build an ADU on real property located at 6637 Bobbyboyar Ave., West Hills,
California 91307 (the “Subject Property”). (First Amended Complaint “FAC” ¶¶ 2, 17.) On or around May 17, 2022,
Defendant Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc. began construction. (FAC ¶ 24.)
Plaintiff Jan Weissman told Defendant Craig Vandagriff “that due to her age and
a condition she suffered from called ‘concussion syndrome’, she would sometimes
lose balance and easily get confused.” (FAC ¶ 25.) In or about July or August
2022, Plaintiff Jan Weissman told Defendant Craig Vandagriff she was unhappy
with the work. (FAC ¶ 26.) 
 
On
April 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Jan Weissman, an individual, and as Trustee of the
Jan Weissman Revocable Trust Dated July 17, 2002 (“Plaintiffs”), filed a
complaint against Defendants Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc., Craig
Vandagriff, Jody Vandagriff, Brytin Construction, AC Interiors, Inc., Vargas
Custom Plaster, Inc., American Plumbing Professionals, and Does 1 to 50
alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of written contract; (2) breach of
implied warranty; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(4) negligence; (5) financial elder abuse;  and (6) declaratory relief.
 
On
August 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their first motion for leave to amend the
complaint. On August 29, 2024, this court denied the motion, without prejudice.
(08/29/24 Minute Order p. 1.) 
 
On
September 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a second motion for leave to amend the
complaint. On October 15, 2024, this court granted the motion. (10/15/24 Minute
Order p. 5.)
 
On
October 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the first amended complaint against
Defendants Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc., Craig Vandagriff, Jody
Vandagriff, Brytin Construction, AC Interiors, Inc., Vargas Custom Plaster,
Inc., American Plumbing Professionals, and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes
of action for: (1) breach of written contract; (2) breach of implied warranty;
(3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4) negligence; (5)
financial elder abuse; and (6) declaratory relief.
 
On
December 10, 2024, Defendants Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc., Craig
Vandagriff, and Jody Vandagriff (“Defendants”) filed a demurrer with motion to
strike. On January 7, 2025, Plaintiffs filed oppositions. On January 13, 2025,
Defendants filed replies.
 
II.            
PROCEDURAL ISSUES
 
A.    Timeliness
“A person against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the
complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §¿430.40(a).)¿ Per California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed
within 30 days after service of the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
412.20(a)(3).)¿¿
 
Per California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed
at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto
should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to
any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the set
hearing. “Any period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or
make any response within any period or on a date certain after the service of
the document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of
court, shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days .
. .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)
 
On October 17, 2024, Plaintiffs served Defendants
with the first amended complaint by electronic transmission. (Proof of Service
filed 11/15.24.) Thirty days after October 17, 2024, was November 16, 2024.
Accordingly, with the extension for electronic service, Defendants’ demurrer
with motion to strike was due by November 19, 2024. Defendants filed the
demurrer with motion to strike on December 10, 2024.
 
Judges have discretion as to whether to consider or strike an
untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281.) This court will exercise its discretion and consider
the demurrer with motion to strike.
 
The demurrer with motion to strike, oppositions and replies were
timely filed under section 1005.
 
B.   
Meet and Confer
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” before the filing of a
demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the
demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve the issues
raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the opposing
party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ.
Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿
California
Code of Civil Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a) also requires parties to meet
and confer before filing a motion to strike.¿¿¿ 
 
Defendants’
counsel submits declarations showing Defendants’ counsel telephonically met and
conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel, but the parties were unable to reach an
agreement. (Latson Demurrer Declaration ¶¶
6-7; Latson Motion to Strike Declaration ¶¶ 9-10.)
 
This court finds that Defendants satisfied the
meet and confer requirements.
 
III.          
DEMURRER
 
A.   
Legal Standard
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it
contains “[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under
this standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate
rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
A party may demur to a complaint because the complaint “does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10(e).)¿
 
B.   
Discussion
 
1.    
Breach of the Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails to state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action. (Demurrer p. 3.)
 
“’The
[implied] covenant
of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by
law in every contract.’ [Citation.] The covenant is read into contracts and
functions ‘as a supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a
contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while not technically
transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other party's rights to the
benefits of the contract.’ [Citation.] The covenant also requires each party to
do everything the contract presupposes the party will do to accomplish the
agreement's purposes. [Citation.] A breach of the implied covenant of good
faith is a breach of the contract [citation], and ‘breach of a specific
provision of the contract is not…necessary’ to a claim for breach of the
implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing [citation].” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at
Brand, LLC (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)

The
plaintiff's allegations must show “that the conduct of the defendant, whether
or not it also constitutes a breach of a consensual contract term, demonstrates
a failure or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted not by
an honest mistake, bad judgment or negligence but rather by a conscious and
deliberate act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes and
disappoints the reasonable expectations of the other party thereby depriving
that party of the benefits of the agreement. Just what conduct will meet this
criteria must be determined on a case by case basis and will depend on the
contractual purposes and reasonably justified expectations of the parties.” (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) “If the allegations do not go
beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged
acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” (Id.)
Plaintiffs allege a contract exists. (FAC ¶
17.) Plaintiffs also allege Defendants demonstrated a failure or refusal to
discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted by a conscious and deliberate
act, by alleging Defendants “exerted undue influence to pressure Plaintiff, JAN
WEISSMAN, to continue paying on the contract and pressuring her to pay even
more money via unnecessary and/or excessive change orders.” (FAC ¶ 27.)  Plaintiffs allege this “frustrat[ed] the agreed
common purpose of the parties and disappoint[ed] the reasonable expectations of
Plaintiffs thereby depriving Plaintiffs of the benefits of [the Contract].”
(FAC ¶ 51.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege damages resulting from Defendants’
conduct. (FAC ¶ 52.) 
 
Defendants argue the allegations referenced
above are insufficient because Plaintiffs “merely refers to ‘the conduct as set
forth herein’ and have “not plead the specifics of [the] alleged conduct which
allegedly frustrated the agreed upon common purpose of the parties and
disappointed Plaintiff’s reasonable allegations, but the allegations set forth
under the Third Cause of Action require speculation as to what conduct
Plaintiff references.” (Demurrer p. 7.)
 
The specific allegations referencing exerting
pressure on Plaintiffs to continue paying for unnecessary and/or excessive
orders and removing property are alleged under the first amended complaint’s general
allegations section, not the section on the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. (FAC ¶ 27.)  However, the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing section states “Plaintiffs
hereby incorporate by reference each of the preceding paragraphs in this First
Amended Complaint as if fully set forth herein.” (FAC ¶ 49.) 
In reviewing a demurrer, the court “do[es] not read passages from a
complaint in isolation” but instead “read[s] the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’” (West v. JPMORGAN Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) Upon reviewing the first amended complaint as a whole,
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing cause of action.
 
2.    
Elder Abuse
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ fifth cause
of action for financial elder abuse fails to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. (Demurrer p. 3.)
 
Elder abuse includes any of the
following:  
 
1.    
Physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or
other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering. 
 
2.    
The deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are
necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering. 
 
3.    
Financial abuse, as defined in¿Section 15610.30. 
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.07(a).) 
 
Financial elder abuse occurs when a
person or entity: “(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real
or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both. (2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both. (3) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.” (Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.30(a).) 
 
“A
person or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated,
obtained, or retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the
person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the
property and the person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct
is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code §
15610.30(b).) “For purposes of this section, a person or entity takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property when an
elder or dependent adult is deprived of any property right, including by means
of an agreement, donative transfer, or testamentary bequest, regardless of
whether the property is held directly or by a representative of an elder or
dependent adult.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30(c).)  “Undue influence” is defined as “excessive
persuasion that causes another person to act or refrain from acting by
overcoming that person's free will and results in inequity.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.70(a).) An “’[e]lder’ means any person residing
in [California], 65 years of age or older.” (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.27.) 
 
“[S]tatutory causes of action must be pleaded with
particularity.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 790; see also Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404 [stating in a cause of action for elder abuse based on
neglect “the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link
between the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity’ in
accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.’”])
 
Defendants argue “Plaintiff did not plead with particularity how
the Vandagriffs exerted undue influence over her and/or intended to defraud
her[.]” (Demurrer p. 8.) Plaintiffs state “Defendants have not cited one case
that requires the particularity that they state Plaintiffs must allege.”
(Opposition p. 5.) As noted, an elder abuse cause of action must be pleaded
with particularity.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Plaintiff Jan Weissman was 66 years old
when Plaintiff entered into the Contract with Defendants and that Plaintiff Jan
Weissman resides in West Hills, California. (FAC ¶¶ 59, 1.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege Plaintiff
Jan Weissman was an elder adult.
 
Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants “learned that Plaintiff,
JAN WEISSMAN, suffered from a medical condition called ‘concussion syndrome’
that causes her to sometimes lose balance and easily get confused.” (FAC ¶ 60.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “exerted
undue influence on Plaintiff, JAN WEISSMAN, to continue paying for work that
was not complete or was defective.” (FAC ¶
61.) And Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “exerted undue influence on
Plaintiff, JAN WEISSMAN, to sign and pay for change orders for unnecessary
and/or excessive work.” (FAC ¶ 62.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
“knowing [Plaintiff Jan Weissman] did not have legal counsel and unfamiliar
with the legal process, filed a Demand for Arbitration to attempt to pressure
her to pay an additional $21,962.00.” (FAC ¶ 63.)
 
A plaintiff’s “use of . . . terminology [such]
as fraudulently and recklessly cannot cure the failure to point out how or in
what manner the [defendant] has transgressed.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410.) Plaintiffs allege
Defendants “exerted undue influence on Plaintiff . . . to
continue paying for work that was not complete or was defective” and “to sign and pay for change orders for
unnecessary and/or excessive work.” (FAC ¶¶ 61-62.) These paragraphs lack
specific allegations showing how or in what manner the Defendants exerted undue
influence or pressured Plaintiffs to pay the additional funds. These paragraphs
also lack specific allegations showing Defendants took, secreted, appropriated,
obtained, or retained Plaintiffs’ property for a wrongful purpose or with an
intent to defraud.
 
Plaintiffs argue the first amended complaint
states a cause of action for financial elder abuse because it complaint alleges
Defendants “stole equipment and material[.]” (Opposition p. 6.) Plaintiffs
allege that “[i]n the beginning of December of 2022” Defendant Craig Vandagriff
Construction, Inc. “removed HVAC equipment and rebar that [Plaintiff] JAN
WEISSMAN had already paid for” and Plaintiff “JAN WEISSMAN told CRAIG
VANDAGRIFF to stop taking what belonged to her and to get off her property.”
(FAC ¶ 29.) This could constitute a taking. However, Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently alleged how this taking was done “for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud” or through “undue influence.” (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.30(a).) 
 
Plaintiffs also argue the allegation
Defendants filed a demand for arbitration is a sufficient “factual allegation .
. . regarding specific ‘conduct.’” (Opposition p. 2.) As Defendants point out,
the contract attached to the first amended complaint contains a dispute
resolution provision, which provides that “The parties will
attempt to resolve any dispute arising out of or relating to this Contract
through friendly negotiations between the parties. If the matter is not
resolved by negotiation, the parties will resolve the dispute using the below
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure.” (Ex. A pdf p. 35.) By filing
the demand for arbitration, Defendants appear to have been following the
contract’s terms. Plaintiffs have not plead sufficient facts showing that, by
filing the demand for arbitration, Defendants were engaging in undue influence
by using “excessive
persuasion that cause[d Plaintiff] to act or refrain from acting by overcoming
[Plaintiffs’] free will[.].” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.70(a).) 
 
Moreover, section 15610.70, subdivision (a) requires the
excessive persuasion to “result[] in inequity.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.70(a).) And section 15610.30 states
that financial elder abuse involves taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining, “real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult by undue influence . . .” or one of the other means listed in subdivision
(a). Plaintiffs allege that Plaintiff Jan Weissman received notice that
Defendant Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc. filed a demand for arbitration
and Plaintiff Jan Weissman specially appeared in the arbitration and “objected
to jurisdiction on the grounds that there are parties in the present case that
are not privy to the contract between Plaintiffs and Defendant, CRAIG
VANDAGRIFF CONSTRUCTION, INC.” (FAC ¶
36.) And Plaintiffs allege that Defendants filed the demand for arbitration “to
pressure [Plaintiff Jan Weissman] to pay an additional $21,962.00.” (FAC ¶ 63.)
Based on these allegations, it appears that the arbitration proceeding is
pending. These allegations do not indicate that Defendants have, through filing
the demand for arbitration, taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or
retained, Plaintiffs’ real or personal property for a wrongful use, with the
intent to defraud, or by undue influence.
 
Thus, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged
a financial elder abuse cause of action.
 
IV.          
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.    Legal
Standard
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike “any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike “all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. §¿437(a).)¿¿ 
 
B.    Discussion
 
1.     Punitive
Damages
Defendants seek an order striking the
references and prayer for relief relating to punitive damages in the first
amended complaint. (Motion to Strike p. 5.)
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
To justify a punitive damages award, the defendant must be “guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿(Civ. Code., § 3294.)
 
Malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).) Oppression is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c)(2).)
Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)¿ 
¿ 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not
be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And “’conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of “oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,’ within the
meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves
v. Superior Court, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166; Today’s IV,
Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra,
83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the operative
complaint set forth the elements as stated in¿section 3294, it must
include¿specific¿factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for¿punitive¿damages.”].)¿
 
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants “exerted undue influence to pressure Plaintiff, JAN
WEISSMAN, to continue paying on the contract and pressuring her to pay even
more money via unnecessary and/or excessive change orders.” (FAC ¶
27.) This allegation lacks specificity and is, therefore, insufficient to
sustain a request for punitive damages.
Plaintiff also alleges that “[i]n the
beginning of December 2022 [Defendant] CRAIG VANDAGRIFF CONSTRUCTION, INC.
began removing property from the Subject Property that [Plaintiff] JAN WEISSMAN
had already paid for” including “HVAC equipment and rebar[.]” (FAC ¶ 29.) This
allegation relates only to Defendant Craig Vandagriff Construction, Inc. and
does not mention Defendants Craig Vandagriff and Jody Vandagriff. Moreover, the
allegation is insufficient to show Defendants acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression.
Finally, Plaintiffs allege that, on or about December
29, 2022, Plaintiff Jan Weissman was notified that Defendant Craig Vandagriff
Construction, Inc. filed a demand for arbitration. (FAC ¶ 30.) As noted, the
contract attached to the complaint contains an arbitration provision. (See Ex.
A pdf p. 35.) Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged that, by attempting to
resolve the dispute in a manner provided for by the Contract, Defendants acted
with malice, fraud, or oppression.
Accordingly, the first amended complaint’s
allegations are insufficient to support Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages.
2.     Treble
Damages
Defendants
also seek an order striking the references and prayer for relief relating to
treble damages. (Motion to Strike p. 12.)
Plaintiffs
seek treble damages for the fifth cause of action for financial elder abuse.
(FAC p. 27.) This court sustained Defendants’ demurrer as to the fifth cause of
action. Thus, this issue is moot.
V.            
LEAVE TO AMEND
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, ‘leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.’” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141,
1146.)¿¿¿ 
 
This court finds there is a reasonable possibility Plaintiffs
can cure the defects in the complaint and grants Plaintiffs leave to amend.¿ 
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION
For
the foregoing reasons, this court sustains the demurrer, in part, and overrules
the demurrer, in part. This court also grants the motion to strike, as it
relates to punitive damages, and finds that the motion to strike, as it relates
to treble damages, is moot. Plaintiffs are granted leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:             January
21, 2025                                                         _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court