

Hearing Date:             September 11, 2024    
Case Name:                 Elizabeth Reyes v. Cedar Green
LLC et al.
Case
No.:                    21STCV35534
Motion:                       Motion
to Disqualify Counsel
Moving
Party:             Defendant Cedar Green,
LLC

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Elizabeth Reyes


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Disqualify
Claudia Borsutzki and Friedman & Chapman is granted. 
 

 
This case arises out of allegations
by Plaintiff tenant that Defendant landlord and property manager failed to maintain
habitable conditions in Plaintiff’s dwelling. On July 3, 2024, Defendant Cedar
Green LLC filed a Motion to Disqualify Plaintiff’s Counsel because of a
conflict of interest. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s counsel Claudia
Borsutzki (Borsutzki), who now works for Friedman & Chapman, LLP (Friedman
& Chapman), previously represented Defendant in this matter and was privy
to privileged information. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
attorneys oppose the motion, minimizing Borsutzki’s involvement in the action
when she represented Defendant.
 
            The Court
grants the motion to disqualify Borsutzki and Plaintiff’s law firm.
 
Attorney Disqualification
 
California Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 1.9 provides that absent consent, a lawyer cannot represent a
party in the same matter in which she represented the adverse party and
acquired confidential information: 
 
“A lawyer shall not knowingly
represent a person in the same or a substantially related matter in which a
firm with which the lawyer formerly was associated had previously represented a
client (1) whose interests are materially adverse to that person; and (2) about
whom the lawyer had acquired information protected by Business and Professions
Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and rules 1.6 and 1.9(c) that is material to
the matter; unless the former client gives informed written consent.” (Cal.
Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.9 (b).) 
 
Disqualification based on former
representation requires a showing of a prior fiduciary relationship between the
attorney and the party seeking disqualification in which confidential
information was or may have been disclosed to the attorney. (Tuft, et al, Cal.
Practice Guide: Prof. Resp. & Liability (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 4:161.)
 
From December 2019 to May 2024, Borsutzki
was employed at Wood Smith Henning & Berman LLP. (Borsutzki Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)[1] In
November 2022, she became Defendant’s attorney of record in this action. (Ibid.)
While so employed on behalf of Defendant, Borsutzki negotiated a potential
early settlement with attorneys at Friedman & Chapman. (Id. ¶ 7.) She
states that “[o]n January 9, 2024, she went on maternity leave without any
further involvement in this matter.” (Id. ¶ 13.) In June 2024, she left
Wood Smith and began working for Plaintiff’s firm Friedman & Chapman (Id.
¶ 14.) Before beginning her employment with Friedman & Chapman, she states
that a conflict check was conducted and she was completely screened off the Reyes
v. Cedar Green file. (Id. at ¶ 16.) Other than discussing the
instant Motion to Disqualify, she states that she has not discussed this matter
with anyone at Friedman & Chapman and she remains completely screened off
the file which is saved on a separate server. (Id. at ¶ 17.) Moreover,
she states, “[t]o the best of my knowledge and belief, I never reviewed or even
received any confidential and/or privileged documents from Defendant. I only
reviewed the documents available on the Court docket, specifically the
Complaint and the Default Prove-up Package. I may have drafted the Answer to the
Complaint along with some initial discovery. However, that did not require my
review of any confidential or privileged documents and/or discussion with the
Defendant.” (Id. at ¶ 12.) 
 
As an initial matter, Borsutzki’s
declaration, based on information and belief, fails to set forth personal
knowledge required to be admissible as evidence. (Kellett v. Kellett
(1934) 2 Cal.2d 45, 48 [“affidavit made upon information and belief is hearsay
and no proof of the facts stated therein”].) It is particularly vague about the
purported conflict check and the details of the alleged ethical screen. Her disavowals
are given no credence.
 
Moreover, it is undisputed that
neither Borsutzki nor Friedman & Chapman sought or obtained a written
consent waiver from Defendant. 
 
“If the relationship between the
attorney and the former client is shown to have been direct—that
is, where the lawyer was personally involved in providing legal advice and
services to the former client—then it must be presumed that confidential
information has passed to the attorney and there cannot be any delving into the
specifics of the communications between the attorney and the former client in
an effort to show that the attorney did or did not receive confidential
information during the course of that relationship.” [citations omitted.]
(Tuft, et al, Cal. Practice Guide: Prof. Resp. & Liability (The Rutter
Group 2024) ¶ 4:199.) Here, Borsutzki was Defendant’s counsel and negotiated
early settlement for this very matter. These facts support the presumption that
she obtained confidential information. 
 
Thus, the Court disqualifies
Claudia Borsutzki from representing Plaintiff. The Court next analyzes whether
Friedman & Chapman should be disqualified. 


Vicarious Law Firm Disqualification 
 
When an attorney is disqualified by
a conflict of interest based on an earlier representation, the attorney’s
entire law firm may be vicariously disqualified as well. Generally, subject to exceptions
inapplicable here, “[w]hile lawyers are associated in a firm, none of them
shall knowingly represent a client when any one of them practicing alone would
be prohibited from doing so by rule 1.7 or 1.9.” (Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.10(a).)
 
The vicarious disqualification
rules are based on the assumption “that attorneys, working together and
practicing law in a professional association, share each other’s, and their
clients confidential information.” (City & County of San Francisco v.
Cobra Solutions, Inc. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 839, 847-848; see Tuft, et al, Cal.
Practice Guide: Prof. Resp. & Liability (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 4:203.) 
 
The Court disqualifies Friedman
& Chapman. The firm has submitted insufficient evidence to overcome the
assumption that Borsutzki obtained and shared with Plaintiff’s law firm
confidential information learned while she was the lawyer for Defendant. Borsutzki
declares that she was screened off from the Reyes v. Cedar Green file
and has not discussed this matter with anyone at Friedman & Chapman.
(Borsutzki Decl. ¶¶ 16-17.) However, a generalized declaration that the
attorney had not discussed the case with the new law firm is insufficient. (People
v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135,
1151-1152, fn. 5 (SpeeDee). Neither Borsutzki nor Friedman & Chapman’s
management provided any details as to the timing and extent of the purported
ethical screen. 
 
In SpeeDee, supra, our
Supreme Court concluded that, “[w]here an attorney successively represents
clients with adverse interests, and where the subjects of the two
representations are substantially related, the need to protect the first client’s
confidential information requires that the attorney be disqualified from the
second representation. [Citation.] For the same reason, a presumption that
an attorney has access to privileged and confidential matters relevant to a
subsequent representation extends the attorney’s disqualification vicariously
to the attorney's entire firm.” (SpeeDee, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 1146.)
Here, Borsutzki served as Defendant’s counsel from November 2022 until May 2023
and negotiated an early settlement which suggests confidential information was
shared. 
 
Based on the evidence submitted, the
Court disqualifies Friedman & Chapman from serving as Plaintiff’s counsel
in this matter.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant’s
motion to disqualify Borsutzki and Friedman & Chapman from representing
Plaintiff is granted.
 


