

Hearing Date:             September
11, 2024
Case Name:                Ramer
v. Cimmaron, Inc.
Case No.:                    24STCV13900            
Matter:                        Demurrer
to Complaint          
Moving Party:             Defendants
Cimarron, Inc, Ken Newman, and Brandie Newman        
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Bruce Ramer
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
demurrer is overruled.

 
            Plaintiff
Bruce Ramer (Plaintiff) chartered a boat from Defendants. After several voyages,
Plaintiff learned, he alleges, that the captain was not properly licensed and
the crew was not qualified. He sues Defendants for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud, and (4) under
Business and Professions Code section 17200. Defendants demur to the first
three causes of action on the ground that the complaint fails to allege damages
proximately caused by Defendants’ conduct. Defendants also argue that the Complaint
fails adequately to allege an alter ego relationship among them. 
 
            The
demurrer is overruled.
 
Procedural and factual
background
 
            In
June 2024 Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Cimarron, Inc, and Ken Newman and
Brandie Newman.  The Complaint alleges
that Defendant Cimarron was the alter ego of Defendant Newmans.  In August 2023, avers the Complaint, Plaintiff
and Cimarron entered an Agreement by which Plaintiff chartered a boat called
the Shambhala from Cimarron “for 17 days between August 1, 2023 and May 31,
2023.” (Compl. ¶ 7.)[1] Plaintiff traveled
on the boat for eight days between August 17 and October 22, 2023.  Plaintiff alleges that on October 22, 2023,
he: 
learned that
Defendants were operating the Shambhala in a manner that threatened his and the
other passengers’ safety, and breached the Agreement in myriad ways. Among
other things, the captain of the Shambhala was not licensed to captain a vessel
of the Shambhala’s size; crew requirements were not met; the vessel was known
by the captain and crew to leak fuel and illegally discharge fuel and waste,
and; Defendants continually operated the vessel in a manner that violated and
voided the terms of their insurance.
(Compl. ¶ 11.)
 
            The first cause of action of the Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff’s Agreement with Defendants contained the representation
that the “Captain and crew shall be appropriately licensed and qualified….”
(Compl. ¶ 17.) The Complaint alleges that in breach of the Agreement neither
was true, and as a “result of Defendants’ material breaches of the Agreement,
Mr. Ramer has been damaged, and continues to accrue damages….” (Id. ¶¶
18-19.)
 
            The second cause of action
incorporates the breach of contract allegations and also alleges that Defendants
“continually operated the Shambhala in a manner that violated and voided the
terms of their insurance.” (Compl. ¶ 24.) The Complaint alleges that Defendants’
conduct “voided the insurance policy” and that as “a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ material breaches of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, Mr. Ramer has been damaged, and continues to accrue damages….”
(Id. ¶¶ 31-33.)
 
            The
third cause of action for “false promise” avers that Defendants made three
false promises to Plaintiff:  (1) The
captain and crew would be appropriately licensed and qualified; (2) that the
vessel would be adequately insured; and (3) that “the Vessel, Captain, and crew
would be in compliance with all charter laws of the United States.” (Compl. ¶¶
37-41.) These representations, the Complaint asserts were “false when made,” Defendants
intended Plaintiff to rely upon them, and Plaintiff reasonably relied on them.
(Id. ¶¶ 42-44.) Accordingly, Plaintiff maintains, he “has been damaged
and continues to accrue damages, in an amount subject to proof at trial….” (Id.
¶¶ 45-46.)
 
            Defendants
demur to these three counts on the ground that they fail to state a cause of
action because they do not plead damages caused by the alleged breach.  With respect to the fraud claim, Defendants
also state that the allegations lack the requisite specificity. Finally, Defendants
argue, the Complaint fails sufficiently to allege “alter egoism” against the
Newmans.
 
Legal standard
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also
Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Discussion
 
            The
Complaint is not a model of clarity. It does not explain how Plaintiff continues
to accrue damages and is not specific to the extent he seeks special damages. But
Defendants’ arguments are often factual challenges inappropriate for a
demurrer,[2] and seem to
seek information uniquely available to them, such as the insuring
agreement.  Plaintiff need plead only ultimate
facts, and need not specify a dollar amount of damages. Discovery is the stage in
which these details should emerge.  The
Complaint adequately places Defendants on notice of the claims alleged.
 
First cause of action for
breach of contract
 
Establishing a
claim for breach of contract requires a showing of “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo
Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
790, 800.) “Further, the complaint must indicate on its face whether the
contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–459.)¿
 
For present
purposes, the Court assumes as true the allegation that the captain and crew
were not properly licensed. Defendants argue that Plaintiff should have
ferreted this fact out before he signed the agreement, and in any case, he was
not harmed by this breach.  That argument
is unpersuasive.  If United Airlines knowingly
employed pilots without sufficient training, it is not the passengers’ burden
to discover this fact and cancel their tickets. 
At this stage, the Court assumes what was alleged: that the Agreement between
the parties included that the captain and crew were qualified to operate the
boat, when in fact they were not.  Those
assumptions may be proven true or false by the evidence, and if established, a
factfinder may determine the amount of damages. At this stage, the first cause
of action sufficiently pleads a claim for relief. The demurrer to the first
cause of action is overruled.
 
Second cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
 
To establish a claim for
breach of the implied covenant,
the plaintiff must show that (1) plaintiff and defendant entered into a
contract, (2) all conditions required for defendant’s performance had occurred,
(3) defendant prevented Plaintiff from receiving the benefits under the
contract, (4) by doing so, defendant did not act fairly and in good faith, and
(5) plaintiff was harmed by defendant’s conduct. (CACI 325.)  “The covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every
contract, exists merely to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating
the other party's right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually
made.” (Italics omitted.) The covenant thus has no existence independent of its
contractual underpinnings, and cannot impose substantive duties or limits on
contracting parties beyond those in the specific terms of their agreement. (Guz
v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
that the failure to man the vessel with a qualified crew voided the insurance
policy.  Assuming that is so, the issue
is how that harms Plaintiff.  For present
purposes it would be the same harm as if the Agreement represented the vessel
carried insurance when it did not. 
Passengers do not ask to review a carrier’s insurance package. They
reasonably rely on an Agreement that states prominently what the limits of
insurance coverage are.  Defendants argue
that nothing untoward occurred that required insurance to be called upon, and
hence no damages accrued.  But that is
hardly an argument that fulfils the purpose of the agreement.  The assumption here – again, of course,
subject to proof at trial – is that Defendants knew the Captain and crew were inappropriately
licensed and that if any loss occurred because of their acts or omissions, insurance
coverage could well be denied.  Such a
claim, if true, describes bad faith and unfair dealing. The demurrer to the second
cause of action is overruled.
 
Third cause of action for
promissory fraud
 
The elements of
promissory fraud are: 1) a promise made regarding a material fact;
2) promisor’s lack of any intention of performing at the time of making
the promise, based upon: a) specific factual circumstances beyond contract
breach; or b) inferring a contemporaneous intent not to perform; 3) the promise
was made with an intent to induce action by plaintiff; 4) plaintiff reasonably
relied on the promise; 5) defendant did not perform the promised act; 6)
plaintiff was injured/harmed; and 7) plaintiff’s reliance on defendant’s
promise was a substantial factor in causing the harm.  (CACI 1902.)
 
In arguing that
the fraud claim is insufficiently specific, Defendants contest the facts, not
the adequacy of the pleading: “Nowhere in the Complaint are there any ‘facts’
that demonstrate that above representations were false.”  (Demurrer p. 8) “What are the facts,” rhetorically
asks Defendants, “supporting any claim that Defendant had knowledge of these
alleged deficiencies and then intentionally concealed them or misrepresented
them?”  At trial or in a motion for
summary judgment, that question is highly relevant. Not here. 
 
Defendants also repeat
their argument that Plaintiff has not pleaded damages.  Plaintiff’s argument is he did not receive the
benefit of his bargain. If this litigation continues, he will have to prove the
dollar value of the bargain he claims he was deprived of. He has not put a
dollar amount to it yet – discovery goes two ways – but he has certainly
alleged damages. The Court is dubious he can prove future damages, but that
matter is not before us.  
 
            It
strikes the Court that factfinding in the case will be straightforward.  Precisely what licenses or certifications the
Captain and crew possessed during the relevant time should be easily determined.
(The question is analogous to whether the person calling herself a lawyer is
actually a member of the bar, not whether she is a brilliant or inept advocate,
or even whether she committed malpractice.) It is perhaps a mixed question of
law and fact whether those qualifications complied with governing rules when
the Agreement was entered and the voyages occurred. The Court is confident that
Defendants have all of that information now. They should disclose such facts on
request. 
 
Alter ego allegations are
adequate
 
            The
Newman Defendants challenge the allegations of “alter egoism” with respect to
all four causes of action.  The cases
they cite do not arise from demurrers.  They
hold that in order to disregard the corporate entity, allegations must be
pleaded indicating that justice cannot otherwise be accomplished.  Paragraph 5 of the Complaint adequately
alleges these facts.
 
Conclusion
 
            The
demurrer is overruled.  Defendants shall
serve and file their Answer on or before October 2, 2024.
 


