..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV26148
Plaintiff's Name: Jose Licea
Defendant's Name: Hickory Farms, LLC
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Hickory Farms, LLC, Pacific Trial Attorneys
Places: 
Dates: October 25, 2023, December 4, 2023, March 13, 2024
Events: Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: California Invasion of Privacy Act (Penal Code section 638.51), California Consumer Privacy Act, Federal Patriot Act
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements:
```

Here are the main points from the judge's tentative ruling:

* The court sustains the demurrer to the first amended complaint with 30 days' leave to amend.
* The complaint lacks sufficient facts to establish liability under the California Invasion of Privacy Act (Penal Code section 638.51).
* The court finds that the operative complaint only alleges a "device" without any actual specific reference to a mobile phone or other potential form of communication device potentially qualifying as a cellular device.
* The court declines to characterize the "consent" argument as only available in the form of a defense in that the court cannot determine qualification under CIPA in the first place.
* The court also finds public policy strongly disputes Plaintiff's potential interpretation of privacy laws as one rendering every single entity voluntarily visited by a potential plaintiff, thereby providing an IP address for purposes of connecting the website, as a violator.
* The court raises potential concern involving the requirement of a third party to actually commit a volitional act for purposes of liability.
* Plaintiff may not add any new causes of action or allegations to the previously existing claims without leave of court. Any new causes of action added without leave of court may be subject to a motion to strike.
