 Case Number:  24STCV02420    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MIKE P. MCKELVY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
AIDS HEALTHCARE
  FOUNDATION, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV02420 
  Hearing Date:  May 15, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Mike
P. McKelvy filed this action against Defendant Aids Healthcare Foundation,
asserting causes of action for breach of habitability, negligence, nuisance,
emotional distress, breach of contract, unfair business practices, and fraud.
Plaintiff seeks recovery for Defendant’s alleged failure to properly maintain
the rented premises where Plaintiff resided. 
            On April 2, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiff filed his opposition on
May 2, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on May 8, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Schwartz Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Warranty of Habitability
(First through Third Causes of Action)
            A duplicative pleading may be
properly stricken if it “adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or
theory.” (Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d
1128, 1135.) Plaintiff’s first three causes of action are all for breach of the
warranty of habitability, but under different statutory provisions. The first
cause of action is premised on Civil Code sections 1941 and 1941.1, the second
is premised on Health and Safety Code section 17920.3, and the third is
premised on Civil Code section 1942.4. 
            Civil Code section 1941 requires the
lessor of a building to maintain it in a tenantable condition, whereas Section
1941.1 defines when a dwelling is deemed “untenantable.” Health and Safety Code
section 17920.3 similarly defines “substandard building.” None of these
statutes provide for a private right of action. Rather, it is Civil Code
section 1942.4 that prohibits a landlord from collecting rent if the premises
falls within the definition of “untenantable” under Section 1941.1 or
“substandard” under Section 17920.3. (Civ. Code, § 1942.4(a).) Section 1942.4
provides that “[a] landlord who violates this section is liable to the tenant
or lessee for the actual damages sustained by the tenant or lessee.” (Id.,
§ 1942.4(b)(1).) Because Civil Code section 1942.4 provides for a private right
of action and incorporates the definitions set forth in Civil Code section
1941.1 and Health and Safety Code section 17920.3, Plaintiff’s claims based on
the latter two statutes add nothing by way of fact or theory. Plaintiff need
only assert a single cause of action under Section 1942.4. 
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the first and second causes of action. 
b. Nuisance
“Anything which is injurious to health . .
. or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use
of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property . . . is a nuisance.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.) “It is settled that where
conduct which violates a duty owed to another also interferes with that party's
free use and enjoyment of his property, nuisance liability arises.” (Cutujian
v. Benedict Hills Estates Assn. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1390.)  
The alleged bed bug infestation falls
within the definition of nuisance. However, relying on El Escorial Owners'
Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, Defendant argues
that the nuisance claim is duplicative of the negligence claim and should
therefore be stricken. “Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on
the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.”
(Id. at p. 1349.) The court in El Escorial based its holding on a
concern that the definition of nuisance “is so broad that it could be applied
indiscriminately to everything.” (Id. at p. 1348.) The court therefore
held that the toxic mold contamination claim in that case “involves a
traditional tort that should not be litigated under the guise of a nuisance
action.” (Ibid.) At the same time, the court acknowledged that “courts
have allowed plaintiffs to litigate nuisance causes of action in cases
involving housing conditions.” (Ibid.) 

            In Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, the court held that “[a] nuisance
may be either a negligent or an intentional tort.” (Id. at p. 920.) “The
fact that the defendants' alleged misconduct consists of omission rather than
affirmative actions does not preclude nuisance liability.” (Ibid.) The
plaintiff in Stoiber managed to demonstrate intentional conduct by
alleging that the landlord had actual knowledge of uninhabitable conditions and
“acted with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and the damage being
caused to plaintiff, and their conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.”
(Ibid.) 
            The
complaint here similarly alleges that Defendant knowingly ignored Plaintiff’s
complaints regarding the uninhabitable conditions and thereby consciously
disregarded Plaintiff’s rights and safety. (Compl. ¶¶ 9, 28-31.) Defendant
allegedly maintained a company policy of denial. (Id., ¶ 29.) The
complaint also alleges that Defendant’s conduct was intentional and malicious. (Id.,
¶ 56.) This sufficiently demonstrates intentional conduct that goes beyond mere
lack of due care. Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately pled a nuisance claim
apart from negligence. Although Plaintiff cannot recover twice for the same
injury, at the pleading stage, “[a] plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent
causes of action.” (Gherman
v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 565.) Plaintiff is entitled to plead
multiple theories arising from the same facts. Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED
as to the fifth cause of action.
            c. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
            To state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, a plaintiff must establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant;
(2) the defendant’s intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.) “For conduct to be outrageous, it must be so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated by a civilized community.” (Faunce
v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 172.) “Severe emotional distress [is] emotional distress of such substantial
quantity or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society
should be expected to endure it.” (Fletcher v. Western Life Insurance Co.
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) A landlord’s willful failure to correct
defective conditions can constitute intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1069.)
            Here,
the complaint alleges that for an extended period of time, Plaintiff was
subjected to bedbugs in his bed, clothing, and other property and had bedbugs
biting him in his sleep, leading to pain and sleeplessness. (Compl. ¶¶ 37-38.) Plaintiff
alleges that he persistently complained about the problem but that Defendant
intentionally ignored him and continued demanding rent. (Id., ¶¶ 39-41,
145.) Defendant allegedly maintained a corporate policy of denial. (Id.,
¶ 29.) As a result, Plaintiff alleges that he experiences sleepless nights,
severe mental distress, and other physical conditions. (Id., ¶ 149.)
These facts sufficiently establish outrageous conduct and support a reasonable
inference that Defendant acted intentionally or at least with reckless
disregard. 
Defendant
attempts to distinguish Burnett on the grounds that Burnett
involved a toxic mold contamination, whereas this case merely involves bedbugs.
Defendant cannot escape liability by unilaterally deciding that a bedbug
infestation is not severe enough. At the pleading stage, it may be reasonably
inferred that Defendant engaged in outrageous conduct by intentionally ignoring
the infestation. It is for the trier of fact to determine whether a bedbug
infestation is sufficiently outrageous.   

            Defendant
argues that the complaint admits Defendant attempted to eradicate the bedbugs
but merely failed, which does not support outrageous conduct. However, the
complaint contains no admission that Defendant addressed the issue and instead
alleges repeatedly that Defendant willfully ignored Plaintiff’s complaints. The
single mention that the bedbugs “resisted eradication” (Compl. ¶ 38) does not
constitute an admission that Defendant addressed the issue. The complaint must
be interpreted liberally in Plaintiff’s favor. The description of the bedbugs
as difficult to eradicate is not a commentary on what actions Defendant took or
did not take. For purposes of a demurrer, it must be assumed true that Defendant
ignored the issue upon being notified by Plaintiff and other tenants because
that is what the complaint actually alleges.  
            However,
Plaintiff’s generic allegations regarding “severe emotional distress,
humiliation, stress, discomfort, annoyance, depression, fear of safety and/or
or physical pain and injury, frustration and anxiety” are insufficient to
establish severe emotional distress. (See Compl. ¶ 148; Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1051 [“discomfort, worry, anxiety, upset stomach, concern, and agitation”
do not satisfy the severity standard].)
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the sixth cause
of action. 
d.
Fraudulent Concealment
“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that before August 2023, Defendant knew of the bedbug infestation but
concealed this information from Plaintiff in order to induce Plaintiff into
signing the lease. (Compl. ¶¶ 169-173.) Defendant argues that the lease, which
is incorporated into the complaint, provides that Plaintiff inspected the unit
prior to moving in and was advised of prior bedbug infestations. (See Compl.,
Ex. A, §§ 6.1, 6.7.) Therefore, Defendant concludes, it could not have deceived
Plaintiff, and Plaintiff could not have justifiably relied on its
misrepresentation. However, on a demurrer, all reasonable inferences must be
drawn in Plaintiff’s favor. Even if Plaintiff did not notice a bedbug
infestation when he inspected the unit and was advised of prior
infestations, it remains possible that a bedbug infestation existed at the time
Plaintiff signed the lease. It may also be reasonably inferred that Defendant
knew of a present infestation and intentionally concealed it from Plaintiff.
Defendant
further argues that the fraud allegations lack specificity. However, the rule
of specificity “is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations.” (Alfaro,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.) “[I]t is harder to apply this rule to a
case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’
something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never
happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot provide specificity on nonexistent
statements. The complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendant concealed a
bedbug infestation from Plaintiff, thereby inducing Plaintiff to sign the
lease. (Compl. ¶¶ 169-173.) Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
ninth cause of action. 
II. Motion to
Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
As discussed
above, the complaint adequately pleads fraudulent concealment. Fraud is an
independent basis for punitive damages, regardless of malicious conduct.
Additionally, the allegations discussed above—where Defendant allegedly knew of
the bedbug infestation but ignored it for an extended period of time while
continuing to extract rent—sufficiently establish conscious disregard for
Plaintiff’s rights and safety, as well as conduct that subjected Plaintiff to
unjust hardship. Again, Defendant’s personal opinion on the severity of bedbug
infestations brings in factual issues and does nothing to negate the
sufficiency of the allegations.   
Defendant also
argues that the complaint fails to allege facts establishing that the acts were
committed or ratified by a corporate managing agent. (See Civ. Code, §
3294(b).) However, the complaint alleges that “Defendants’ managing agents,
specifically, ‘Beatriz DeMarco’, authorized and/or ratified all offensive acts
outlined in this cause of action, as well as all of the other causes of action
included throughout the Complaint.” (Compl. ¶ 172.) This is sufficient for
pleading purposes. The evidentiary facts establishing a particular individual
as a managing agent should be left for discovery.
Therefore, the
motion to strike is DENIED as to punitive damages. 
 
b.
Attorney’s Fees
“Except as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) Therefore, a plaintiff must
allege either a statutory or contractual basis for attorneys’ fees. 
Plaintiff
alleges that he is entitled to attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021.5, which allows an award of fees to the successful party “in any
action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting
the public interest.” However,
this case arises from a private dispute between landlord and tenant and does
not confer a significant benefit to the general public or a large class of
persons. (See Serrano v. Stefan Merli Plastering Co., Inc. (2011) 52
Cal.4th 1018, 1026 [“section 1021.5 was not intended to impose fees on an
individual seeking a judgment that determines only his or her private rights”].)
Therefore, the motion to strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s fees.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in
part as set forth above. The motion to strike is GRANTED in part as set forth
above.  
       