 Case Number:  23VECV03809    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  W JUAN CARLOS
ANTONIO, et al. vs MARTHA MEJIA CAMPOS, et al.
 
DEFENDANTs’ demurrer with motion to
strike 
 
Date of Hearing:        February
8, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03809
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Martha Mejia Campos and Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Juan Carlos Antonio and Belen
Solano 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Reyes Decl. ¶¶3-15.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 31, 2023, Plaintiffs Juan
Carlos Antonio and Belen Solano filed a complaint against Defendants Martha
Mejia Campos and Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson for Violation Rent Stabilization
Ordinance, Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Unlawful and
Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and Professions Code §17200,
and Implied Warranty of Habitability. The parties entered into a rental
agreement. Plaintiffs allege the unit they rented, however, was unpermitted and
had several habitability issues. Plaintiffs further allege Defendants did not
properly file a Declaration of Intent to Evict in Order to Comply with a
Government Agency’s Order. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Martha Mejia Campos and
Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, in
part. Defendants Martha Mejia Campos and Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson Motion
to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Martha Mejia Campos and
Cristine Annete Mejia Johnson demur to the complaint on the grounds the
complaint fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action against
Defendants. Defendants also move to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of
action on the grounds for Violation of Rent Stabilization Ordinance on the
grounds that Plaintiffs do not have a private right of action to sue under the
RSO. 
 
LAMC § 151.05 provides that “no
landlord shall demand or accept rent for a rental unit without first procuring
and serving on the tenant or displaying in a conspicuous place a valid written
registration statement from the Department or its designee. On or after April
30, 1983, no landlord shall demand or accept rent for a rental unit without
first serving a copy of a valid registration or annual registration renewal
statement on the tenant of that rental unit.”   
 
If a landlord fails to comply with LAMC
§ 151.05 and demands rent from a tenant, “[a] tenant may withhold the payment
of any rent otherwise lawfully due and owing after July 1, 1979, until such
time as the landlord has complied with Section 151.04 C. and Section 151.05 A.
of this Chapter.  Once the landlord has complied with Sections 151.04 C.
and 151.05 A. of this Chapter, the tenant becomes obligated to pay the current
rent and any back rent withheld pursuant to this Subsection.”  (LAMC § 151.11(B).)   
 
Defendants argue the complaint alleges
violation of the RSO, but fails to allege any specific Los Angeles Municipal
Code or ordinance that Defendants allegedly violated. Plaintiffs also fail to cite
any authority providing them a private right of action to sue for violation of
the RSO. 
 
The court finds Plaintiffs have not
alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for Violation of Rent Stabilization
Ordinance. Plaintiffs have a private right of action to sue for violation of
LAMC § 151.11. However, the court agrees the complaint makes no reference to
LAMC §151.11. The general rule is that statutory claims must be pled with
particularity. (See, e.g., Covenant Care, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 32
Cal. 4th 771, 790; Zipperer v. County of Santa Clara (2005) 133 Cal.
App. 4th 1013, 1020.)
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Second Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of
action for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds the
claim fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants. 
 
“The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one
contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive
the benefits of the agreement actually made. The covenant thus cannot ‘
“ ‘be endowed with an existence independent of its contractual underpinnings.’
” ’ It cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties
beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.” (Guz v.
Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350, original italics,
internal citations omitted.)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ complaint
fails to allege that all conditions required for Defendants’ performance had
occurred or were excused and that Defendants unfairly interfered with the
Plaintiffs’ right to receive benefits of the contract.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
facts are sufficiently pled establishing the contractual relationship between
the parties. The court agrees. A claim for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing must “go beyond the statement of a mere contract
breach” and not “rel[y] on the same alleged acts [or] simply seek the same
damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action.” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) Although
no breach of contract claim is pled, the court considers the underlying
contract reference alleged in the complaint. Here, the complaint goes beyond a
mere breach of contract and alleges Defendants interfered with Plaintiffs right
to receive the benefits of the contract by renting an illegal unit as well as
evicting Plaintiffs in bad faith including failing to comply with LAMC. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of
action for Violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200 on the
grounds the claim fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Defendants. 
 
Business and Professions Code section
17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605, 610.) “An unlawful business practice or act is an act or
practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time
forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
965, 969.)  “A business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL
if it violates established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical,
oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its
benefits.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th
1457, 1473.) 
 
Defendants argue the cause of action
fails to allege any purportedly “unlawful” or “unfair” business practices with
the required specificity. Moreover, Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts
to support the relief requested. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants
misrepresentation and illegal keeping of Plaintiff's property (security
deposit) are unlawful. Moreover, Defendant’s demurrer overlooks the impact of
California’s Proposition 64 on this statute. 
 
The court finds Plaintiffs have failed
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for violation of Business and
Professions Code 17200. As noted above, statutory claims must be pled with
particularity. (See, e.g., Covenant Care, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 32
Cal. 4th 771, 790.) While the complaint generally alleges Defendants violated
LAMC, Plaintiffs must allege with particularity the ordinance violated.
However, the court finds the complaint alleges Plaintiffs suffered “injury in
fact” in paying rent on an illegal unit as well as being improperly evicted and
loss of money as a result. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action 
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of
action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability on the grounds the
claim fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants.
 
The essential elements of a cause of
action for breach of implied warranty of habitability are: (1) a materially
defective condition of the property affecting habitability; (2) the defective
condition was unknown to the tenant at the time of occupancy; (3) the effect on
habitability of the defective condition was not apparent on reasonable
inspection; (4) notice was given to the landlord within a reasonable time after
the tenant discovered, or should have discovered, the breach; and (5) damages.
(Quevedo v. Braga (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 7—8 (Quevedo),
overruled on other grounds by Knight v. Hallsthammar (1981) 29 Cal. 3d
46, 55 [disapproving of the element that landlord must have been allowed
reasonable time to repair].) 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs fail to
allege that notice was provided to Defendants about a material defective
condition affecting the premises habitability, fails to allege that Plaintiffs
provided notice to the Defendants of the condition within a reasonable time
after Plaintiffs’ discovery of the condition, and fails to allege that
Defendants were given reasonable time to correct the deficiency. Finally,
Plaintiffs also fail to allege specific damages caused by the alleged breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability. 
 
The court agrees. The complaint fails
to allege that notice was provided to Defendants about a material defective
condition affecting the premises habitability or when said notice was allegedly
provided to Defendants , provides no information indicating
that the complaint alleges that Plaintiffs provided notice to the Defendants of
the condition within a reasonable time after Plaintiffs’ discovery of the
condition, and provides no information indicating that the complaint alleges
that Defendants were given reasonable time to correct the deficiency.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’
demand for past rent collected in the amount of $67,000.00 and relocation
assistance in the amount of $20,850.00 as well as Plaintiffs’ request for
attorney fees. 
 
Plaintiff failed to file an opposition
to Defendants’ motion to strike. The court agrees Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently alleged facts to support a claim for past rent collected and
relocation assistance. Moreover, the complaint does not allege facts supporting
a request for attorney fees. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 