  Case Number:  21STCV15600    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  W MICHAEL
COROMINAS, et al. v. WEST HILLS HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
motion FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
Date
of Hearing:        February 8, 2024                   Trial
Date:       November 25, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        21STCV15600
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Exer Medical Corporation d/b/a Exer Urgent Care (erroneously sued and served
herein as Exer Urgent Care) and Michael H. Lee, M.D.
Responding Party:     Non-Opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael
Corominas and Lisa Corominas filed a complaint against Defendants West Hills
Hospital and Medical Center, Martin M. Mortazavi, M.D., Jessica Thomas, M.D.,
Paul Diehl, M.D., Dean Wilson, Jr., P.A., Specialty Imagining Center, Tejpal
Singh, M.D., Providence Cedars-Sina Tarzana Medical Center, Chris Y. Wang,
M.D., Jamie Soo Moi Eng, M.D., Exer Urgent Care, Michael H. Lee, M.D., and
California Institute of Neuroscience for medical negligence and loss of
consortium. Plaintiffs allege that further testing and workup should have been
performed during the ER visit including testing
for signs and symptoms and were negligent in failing to do so.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Exer Medical Corporation
d/b/a Exer Urgent Care and Michael H. Lee, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment
is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Exer Medical Corporation
d/b/a Exer Urgent Care and Michael H. Lee, M.D. (collectively “Exer Urgent
Care”) move this court for summary judgment on the grounds Plaintiffs’
complaint fails because Exer Urgent Care did not breach the applicable standard
of care regarding Plaintiff Michael Corominas; and, Plaintiffs’ complaint fails
because Exer Urgent Care did not, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, proximately cause or contribute to Plaintiffs’ injuries.
 
The elements of medical malpractice are:¿“(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”¿¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic¿(1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).)¿ “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.”¿¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
 
Defendants present the expert declaration of Richard Cho, M.D. Dr.
Cho earned his medical degree from UCLA Medical School in 1994 and completed
his internal medicine residency with UCI Medical Center with an emphasis in
geriatrics in 1997. (Cho Decl. ¶3.) Dr. Cho has been actively practicing
internal medicine/hospitalist medicine for more than 15 years. (Cho Decl. ¶3.)
Dr. Cho testifies based on his background, education, training and experience
as well as review of the materials, it is his opinion that none of the alleged
actions/omissions of Defendant Exer Urgent Care or Defendant Dr. Lee
proximately caused or contributed to Plaintiffs’ injuries or damages. (Cho
Decl. ¶¶4-45.) Specifically, Plaintiff never presented with a fever, his spine
was never tender to palpation, he did not exhibit any neurological deficits or
radicular pain or motor weakness or bowel/bladder dysfunction, or paralysis at
any time during his January 26, 2020 presentation to Exer Urgent Care. (Cho
Decl. ¶27.) Plaintiff did not return to Exer Urgent Care in 2020 nor did he
contact them regarding his back pain at any relevant time. (Cho Decl. ¶28.)
Instead, Plaintiff presented to Providence Cedars Sinai Tarzana Medical
Center’s Emergency Department on January 29, 2020. (Cho Decl. ¶29.)
Accordingly, the standard of care was met at all times with respect to the care
and treatment provided to Plaintiff by Defendants. (Cho Decl. ¶33.)
Specifically, the evaluations, history, documentation, orders, care and treatment,
and all related services rendered to Plaintiff were within he standard of care.
(Cho Decl. ¶34.) Plaintiff presented with low back pain, which was a
non-specific complaint and reported a prior history of back pain and a
herniated disc. (Cho Decl. ¶35.) Based upon his presentation, Plaintiff’s complaints,
and the evaluation and findings performed at Exer Urgent Care on January 26,
2020, was within the standard of care to diagnose him with local pain affecting
the low back (non-traumatic), and back pain. (Cho Decl. ¶38.) It was also
within the standard of care to prescribe Plaintiff with Percocet and Prednisone
for treatment of his low back pain.  (Cho
Decl. 39.) This was a reasonable course of action given his non-specific low
back pain and lack of other, more serious signs or symptoms. (Cho Decl. 39.)
Lastly, Plaintiff was properly provided discharge instructions including
referring to and instructing to follow-up with his primary care provider and if
his condition worsened or Plaintiff developed new symptoms, to contact
Defendants or go to the hospital emergency department. (Cho Decl. ¶40.) Dr. Cho
contends a diagnosis (or even a suspicion) of an epidural abscess requires more
than just a complaint of low back pain. (Cho Decl. ¶44.) 
 
Defendants have met their burden of showing, by expert
declaration, they did not breach the standard of care or cause Plaintiff’s
injury.  As Defendants are entitled to
judgment on the first cause of action for negligence, Defendants are also
entitled to judgment on the second cause of action for loss of consortium. (See
Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) 
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show, by contrary expert
declaration, that a triable issue of fact exists. Plaintiff instead filed a
notice of non-opposition. Therefore, Defendants Exer Urgent Care is entitled to
summary judgment.
 
Accordingly, Defendants Exer
Medical Corporation d/b/a Exer Urgent Care and Michael H. Lee, M.D.’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
 