  Case Number:  23STCV05240    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is the motion of Payam Pedram;  732 N. Vista St. LLC; and 1102 Good Karma LLC  (collectively, “Pedram Defendants”) to strike certain portions of the Second  Amended Complaint (“SAC) of Plaintiff Ori Blumenfeld (“Blumenfeld”).   The Court is denying the Pedram Defendants’  motion. In the SAC, Blumenfeld seeks, inter alia, partition by  sale of real property located at 732 North Vista Street, Los Angeles,  California 90046 (“the Subject Property”). Blumenfeld alleges that Blumenfeld  and Defendant Brooke Mason (“Mason”) were formerly engaged. Blumenfeld further alleges  that he sold his condominium and turned over the net proceeds of $350,000 to  Mason in exchange for a 33.33% interest in the Subject Property, which Mason  owned at the time.  Blumenfeld says that  he relied on Mason’s representation that, in the event of selling the Subject  Property, Blumenfeld would receive 33.33% equity and funds he spent to improve  and maintain it, including the $350,000.  Blumenfeld seeks to have the Subject Property  sold but alleges that Mason has left the country with their daughter,  concerning whom Blumenfeld has filed a paternity action in Van Nuys Superior  Court (case number 22VEPT00238).  As  pertinent here, Blumenfeld also alleges in the SAC that Mason fraudulently  conveyed her share of the Subject Property to the Pedram Defendants.   The Pedram Defendants seek to strike the following  portions of the cause of action in the SAC for fraudulent conveyance and Mason  and the Pedram Defendants on the ground that they are irrelevant and improper. ·       “Defendants  jointly engaged in fraud with the actual intent of taking money which should  have gone to Plaintiff, with the intent of making Defendant Mason judgment  proof by using deceptive transfers. Therefore, Plaintiff should be awarded  exemplary damages/ punitive damages within the jurisdictional limit of this  Court against all Defendants, jointly and severally.” (SAC, ¶ 64, lines 10-15.) ·       “An  award of punitive damages against all Defendants, jointly and severally” in the  prayer for relief as to the Fourth Cause of Action, fraudulent transfer of real  property. (Id., Prayer, ¶ The Pedram Defendants contend that Blumenfeld has not  pleaded facts to support his allegation that “Defendants jointly engaged in  fraud” or his prayer for punitive damages as to the cause of action for  fraudulent conveyance.  The Court  disagrees.    The allegations in Paragraph 64 of the SAC that Pedram  Defendants seek to strike must be read in conjunction with Paragraph 61.  Paragraph 61 alleges that “Defendant Mason  made the transfer of these properties, and the other named Defendants,  Defendants Pedram, Defendant 732 N. Vista St. LLC and Defendant 1102 Good Karma  LLC received the transfer of these properties, with the actual intent to  hinder, delay, and defraud Plaintiff, and without receiving a reasonable  equivalent value in exchange for said transfers.” (Id., ¶ 61.)   In the Court’s view, Paragraphs 61 and 64  contain sufficient allegations that the Pedram Defendants took part in a fraudulent  conveyance of the Subject Property.  In  turn, those allegations are sufficient to support an award of punitive damages  against the Pedram Defendants under Civil Code Section 3294, which authorizes an  award of punitive damages against a party that engaged in malicious, oppressive,  or fraudulent conduct.