 Case Number:  22STCV20578    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for discovery of peace officer personnel records (Pitchess
Motion) is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Legal Standard
 
There is a special two-step procedure for securing
disclosure of peace officer personnel records.  (Warrick v. Superior
Court (City of Los Angeles Police Dept.) (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011,
1019.)  First, the party seeking disclosure must file a motion that
identifies the peace officer, the agency in possession of the records, a
description of the records, who is seeking the records, as well as time and
place of the hearing.  (Evid. Code, §1043(b)(1).)  The motion must be
accompanied by a declaration showing “good cause” for disclosure of the
records; setting forth the materiality of the records; and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency has the requested
documents.  (Evid. Code, §1043(b)(3).) 
 
The Evidence Code §1043(b) “good cause”
declaration must be sufficiently specific “to preclude the possibility of [the
movant] simply casting about for any helpful information.”  (People v.
Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.)  However, an attorney declaration
based upon information and belief and containing hearsay may be used to
evidence good cause in support of a Pitchess motion.  (Haggerty
v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086.)  The moving
party need show only a “plausible factual foundation” for discovery—i.e., a
scenario of officer misconduct that might occur or could have occurred.  (Warrick,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at 1026.)  All that is required is the presentation of a
scenario that might have or could have occurred; i.e., a “relatively low
threshold.”  (Uybungco v. Superior Court (San Diego Police Dept.)
(2008) 163 Cal. App. 4th 1043, 1048; see also Blumberg v. Superior Court
(2011) 197 Cal. App. 4th 1245, 1248 (the good cause requirement of section
1043(b) “embodies a ‘relatively low threshold' for discovery’ [citation], under
which a defendant need demonstrate only ‘a logical link between the defense
proposed and the pending charge’ and describe with some specificity ‘how the
discovery being sought would support such a defense’”).) 
 
Second, if the court finds good cause, then an in
camera hearing must be held.  (Slayton v. Sup.Ct. (Slayton) (2006)
146 Cal.App.4th 55, 61.)  After personally examining the records in
camera, the trial court shall order disclosure of peace officer personnel
records that are “relevant to the matter involved in the pending
litigation.”  (Evid. Code §1045(a); People v. Mooc, supra, 26
Cal.4th at 1226.)  If disclosure is ordered, the court must also order
that the disclosed information may not be used “for any purpose other than a
court proceeding pursuant to applicable law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §1045(e);
see Alford v. Sup.Ct. (People) (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1033, 1039–1040.) 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff seeks disclosure of
(1) complaints against Defendant Officers
Beckstrom, Lopez, Moser, and Romero including complaints of excessive force,
dishonesty, illegal and/or unconstitutional conduct, negligence, reckless
behavior, and all investigations related thereto; and (2) Personnel files for
Defendant Officers Beckstrom, Lopez, Moser, and Romero, including any training,
performance reviews, promotion or demotion received, and disciplinary actions
taken against said Officers. 
First, Defendants argue
that because Plaintiff failed to attach the police report to the motion, as
required under Evidence Code section 1046, and because section 1046 is part of
the notice requirements of section 1043, there can be no hearing. (See
Evidence Code section 1043(d) stating: “No hearing upon a motion for discovery or disclosure shall be held
without full compliance with the notice provisions of this section
except upon a showing by the moving party of good cause for noncompliance, or
upon a waiver of the hearing by the governmental agency identified as having
the records.”.)
 
However, section 1046 does not appear to be within the notice
provisions of section 1043, as it is in its own separate section, and
Defendants have offered no authority to support this assertion. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff has now attached the police report. However,
Defendants have not had an opportunity to respond to this new evidence.
In addition, another issue arises as
Plaintiff’s counsel did not provide an initial declaration showing a factual
foundational basis for the discovery. The moving party need show only a
“plausible factual foundation” for discovery—i.e., a scenario of officer
misconduct that might occur or could have occurred.  (Warrick,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at 1026.) There are no facts showing any good cause in
this initial declaration. The motion does however state facts showing a
foundational basis for the excessive force and negligence claims. It states the
records Plaintiff seeks would show conduct that is similar to the excessive
force by the individual defendant Officers inflicted upon Rivera, which is the
subject of Plaintiff’s complaint and resulted in Rivera’s death. Rivera lost
his life as a result of the incident when he posed no imminent harm to the
Officers or the public. However, these facts should be in the declaration. 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel
filed an additional declaration in support of the reply to add allegations
relating to the dishonesty of the officers in response to Defendants’ argument
in opposition that such factual basis was missing from the initial declaration,
and thus lacking good cause. However, Defendants have not had an opportunity to
respond to this evidence filed with the reply. In addition, the declaration
filed in support of the reply includes a host of additional evidence, including
deposition transcripts, the investigation report, interviews, the Los Angeles
Board of Police Commissioner’s findings, all of which Defendants have not had
an opportunity to respond to. The general rule of motion practice is that
new evidence is not permitted with reply papers. Specifically, points
raised for the first time would deprive the respondent an opportunity to
counter the argument. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522,
1537.) As a result, the motion is denied without prejudice. 
Conclusion
 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for discovery of peace officer personnel records
(Pitchess Motion) is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.