  Case Number:  20STCV00961    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Defendant Jose
Ontiveros Jr.’s motion to expunge the lis pendens is GRANTED. The notice of lis
pendens recorded on 9926 Anzac Avenue and 1961 East Century Boulevard in Los
Angeles, California is EXPUNGED.  Plaintiff and counsel of record Jacob I. Mojarro are ordered to pay attorney’s fees and
costs of $2,710, jointly and severally.  
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under CCP section 405.30, at any time after a
notice of pendency of action has been recorded, any party with an interest in
the real property may apply to the Court to expunge the notice.  A lis
pendens may be expunged either under CCP section 405.31 if the pleadings do not
contain a real property claim or under CCP section 405.32 if the Court finds
that the party claiming the lis pendens has not established by a preponderance
of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.  Under
CCP section 405.30, the party claiming the lis pendens has the burden of proof
of showing either that the pleadings contain a real property claim or that the
probable validity of the real property claim can be established by a
preponderance of the evidence.  Since the
Plaintiff recorded the lis pendens, she has the burden of demonstrating that
her pleadings contain a real property claim and that the probable validity of
their real property claims can be established by a preponderance of the
evidence.  "Probable validity" exists when "it is more
likely than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment on the
claim."  (CCP section 405.3.)
 
Discussion
 
Real Property Claim and
Probable Validity of Real Property Claim
Here, Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  As noted above, CCP section 405.30 imposes
the burden on the Plaintiff to establish that the pleadings contain a real
property claim and the probable validity of the real property claim because she
recorded the lis pendens.  Since
Plaintiff did not file any opposition papers, Plaintiff did not meet her burden
under CCP section 405.30.  As a result,
the Court grants the motion and issues an order expunging the lis pendens
recorded on the property at issue, 9926 Anzac Avenue and 1961 East Century
Boulevard in Los Angeles, California.
Further, the purpose of a lis pendens is to give "constructive notice
that an action has been filed affecting title or right to possession of the
real property described in the notice." 
(BGJ Association, LLC v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
952, 966.)  In this action, the Court has ruled in favor of Defendant Ontiveros and against
Plaintiff by granting his motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
remaining causes of action against him without leave to amend.  Since the action has been resolved against
the Plaintiff, there is no action affecting title or right to possession of the
real property.  As a result, the notice
of lis pendens is moot.  This is
additional grounds to expunge the lis pendens.
 
Request for Attorney’s
Fees
 
Defendant also requests that the Court order
Plaintiff and her counsel of record to pay attorney’s fees and costs.
 Under CCP section 405.38, the Court is authorized to award reasonable
attorney fees and costs to the prevailing party on a motion to expunge a lis
pendens.  
 
Ali Z. Vaqar, the attorney for Defendant, states
in paragraph 9 of his declaration that spent 20 hours drafting the moving
papers, and he expects to spend an additional four hours reviewing the
opposition and filing the reply. Nevertheless, he requests the reduced amount
of $4,770. Vaqar states that he bills $265 per hour. Vaqar also states that
Defendant, will incur filing fees of $60 for the motion to expunge. A review of
the issues and the papers reveals that the motion should have only taken about
10 hours to complete.  As such, the Court
awards $2,710.
Accordingly, the Court orders Plaintiff and counsel of record
Jacob I. Mojarro to pay attorney’s fees and costs of $2,710 ($265 per hour x 10
hours, plus $60 filing fee), jointly and severally.
Conclusion
 
Defendant Jose
Ontiveros Jr.’s motion to expunge the lis pendens is GRANTED. The notice of lis
pendens recorded on 9926 Anzac Avenue and 1961 East Century Boulevard in Los
Angeles, California is EXPUNGED.  Plaintiff and counsel of record Jacob I. Mojarro are ordered to pay attorney’s fees and
costs of $2,710, jointly and severally.  
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.