 Case Number:  21STCV27165    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to requests for production is DENIED in part and
GRANTED in part. It is granted as to Request Nos. 54 and 56 subject to the
protective order, and otherwise denied. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
DENIED.
 
Legal Standard 
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.)¿For 
 
On receipt of a
response to an inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that
any of the following apply:  (1) a
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection
in the response is without merit or too general.  (CCP § 2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to compel
further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).)  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific
facts’ rather than mere conclusions.”  (Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).)
“The declarations may be on information and belief, if necessary.  However, in such cases, the ‘specific facts’
supporting such information and belief (the sources of the information) must
also be alleged.”  (Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation omitted).)  
 
“If ‘good cause’
is shown by the moving party, the burden is then on the responding party to
justify any objections made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to
compel answers to interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  (Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).)
 
Trial courts are vested with “wide discretion” to allow or prohibit
discovery. (Williams v. Superior Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 540.) 
 
Meet and
Confer
 
The motion to
compel further responses must be accompanied by a declaration showing “a
reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court.  (CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).)
 
The Court finds
the parties have met the meet and confer requirement. 
 
Discussion
               
Plaintiff requests
that the court order Defendant to provide further responses and documents to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1, 7, 17, 22,
23, 24, 34, 35, 38, 41, 42, 45, 48, 54, 56, 66, 70, 72, 73, 74, 78, 79, and 80.
The information and documents
sought show whether and the extent to which the Subject Vehicle failed to
conform to the applicable warranties and whether Defendant knew or should have
known of the alleged defects and its inability to repair them. The information
is probative of Defendant’s decision not to repurchase or replace the Subject
Vehicle and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence of Defendant’s liability. 
Specifically,
Plaintiff requested the following categories of documents:
 
No. 1: all
documents regarding the subject vehicle that are maintained in defendant’s
databases. 
GM objected to this request on the
grounds that the term “regarding” is vague and ambiguous, and on the grounds
that the request is overbroad, burdensome, oppressive and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Further, GM
objected to this request to the extent it seeks documents that are
confidential, and involve propriety and trade secret information, and are
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or work product privilege. GM
stated, subject to its objections, that GM would produce the following
documents: any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized
dealerships who may have serviced, maintained or repaired the subject vehicle,
the factory invoice, Global Warranty History Report, any Service Request
Activity Report(s), Vehicle Summary and Repair Order Details applicable to the
subject vehicle. GM also served a supplemental response and produced the
following documents: Repair Order Detail; Repair Order Summary; BARs invoice;
the Global Warranty History Report; Service Request Activity Report;
incidentally obtained repair orders; and incidentally obtained sales
documents.” 
Plaintiff contends that a further
response to this request is warranted because the requested documents are
relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims. In opposition, GM contends that GM produced all
responsive documents within its possession, custody, and control, as expressly
permitted under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230. 
In reply, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has still failed to provide supplemental responses to No. 1.
Plaintiff contends Defendant has not produced all repair orders, work orders,
technician time records, cost of part and labor records, technician notes,
technician line repair assistance requests, vehicle inquiry reports, and any
other documents that refer, relate to, or concern Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
To the extent that
the supplemental responses as to these documents have not been provided, the
Court orders Defendant to provide the supplemental responses as stated above.
However, as to any other documents, Defendant has stated it does not have any
other documents. Thus, the request as to No. 1. is denied.
 
No. 7: all
documents including recalls, technical service bulletins, special service
messages, dealer alerts, reports, Star Reports, campaigns, extended warranties,
dealer advisories, summaries, etc. that were issued for the subject vehicle.
GM objects to this Request on the
grounds that it is overbroad, unduly burdensome, oppressive and seeks documents
that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence as it is not limited in scope to Plaintiff’s alleged
concerns with the subject vehicle at issue in this action. Subject to and
without waiving these objections, GM will comply in part and produce a list of
technical service bulletins (“TSBs”) and informational service bulletins
(“ISBs”) issued for vehicles of the same year, make and model as the subject
vehicle. After it has produced a list of TSBs and ISBs, GM will – at
Plaintiff’s request – search for and produce, if located, copies of a
reasonable number of TSBs and ISBs, if any, that Plaintiff has identified as
specifically related to the defects alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. GM also
will produce a copy of the bulletins for every field action, including any
recalls, if any, it issued for the subject vehicle.
Plaintiff contends that a further
response to this request is warranted because the requested documents are
relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims. In opposition, GM contends that GM produced all
responsive documents within its possession, custody, and control, as expressly
permitted under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230. 
Plaintiff again states Defendant
did not produce all documents, but Plaintiff has not stated whether it knows
for certain Defendant has these documents in its possession, custody and
control. As discussed above, Defendant has stated it does not have any other
documents. Thus, this request is denied.
Nos. 17, 22, 23, 24, 34, 35, 38,
41, 42, 45, and 48
No. 17 – all
documents, including ESI and emails, concerning any internal analysis or
investigation by Defendant or on Defendant’s behalf regarding engine defects in
Chevrolet vehicles equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle.
No. 22 – all documents concerning
field reports, dealer contacts, warranty claims, customer complaints, claims,
reported failures regarding engine defects in vehicles equipped with the same
transmission as the subject vehicle, including any documents concerning your
response to each field report, customer complaint, reported failure, and
warranty claim. No. 23 – all documents, including ESI and emails, regarding
when Chevrolet engineers learned, became aware of, or were notified about,
engine defects in Chevrolet vehicles that are equipped with the same engine as
the subject vehicle.
No. 24 – all documents, including
ESI and emails, regarding when any member of your Recall committee first
learned, became aware of, or was notified about, engine defects in Chevrolet
vehicles that equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle, or problems
or potential problems with the engine of Chevrolet vehicles that equipped with
the same engine as the subject vehicle. 
No. 34- all documents, including
ESI and emails, concerning any decision to issue any notices, letters,
campaigns, warranty extensions, service messages, technical service bulletins
and recalls concerning the engine defects in Chevrolet vehicles that are
equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle. 
No. 35 - all documents, including
ESI and emails, concerning any decision to issue any notices, letters,
campaigns, warranty extensions, service messages, technical service bulletins
and recalls concerning the engine defects in Chevrolet vehicles that are
equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle. 
No. 38 - all documents, including
ESI and emails, concerning any fixes for the engine defects in Chevrolet
vehicles that are equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle.
No. 41 - all documents, including
power points, memoranda, reports, warnings, investigations, assessments,
engineering reviews, summaries, executive reviews, executive summaries, etc.,
that were prepared by any of YOUR engineers, concerning the engine defects in
Chevrolet vehicles that are equipped with the same engine as the subject
vehicle.
No. 42 - all documents, including
power points, reports, summaries, investigations, assessment, etc., that were
provided to any Vice President, any team or committee member responsible for
quality issues, or any team or committee member responsible for recall issues,
concerning the engine defects in Chevrolet vehicles that are equipped with the
same engine as the subject vehicle. 
No. 45 - The user manual for the
following databases: 1) Proving Grounds Testing Information System (“PGTIS”);
2) Parts Return Analysis System (“PRAS”); 3) Customer Assistance Inquiry
Records (“CAIR”); 4) Customer Assistance Group Remote Imagining System
(“CAGRIS” – field report data); 5) Global Warranty System (“GWS”); 5) Quality
Narrative Analyzer (“QNA”); 6) Data Analysis Product Information System
(“DAPIS”); 7) the “Google of Chrysler” – Electronic Corporate Issue Management
System (“e-CIMS”); and 8) Mopar Parts system.
No. 48 – all documents, including
emails, which reflect corrective action process(es) and/or preventative
action(s) taken (“preventative action” as used herein means an action which
would prevent a failure that has not occurred) relating to the engine defects
in Chevrolet vehicles that are equipped with the same engine as the subject
vehicle.
Among other things, as to these
requests, GM objects on the grounds that they are overbroad and seek documents
that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence as it is not limited to the subject vehicle at issue in
this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds that it is
burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult
and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy and
the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. 
Plaintiff contends that further
responses to these requests are warranted because the Vehicle exhibited various
engine defects. The court disagrees. Plaintiffs’ motion does not explain how
documents regarding investigation into alleged defects or knowledge about
alleged defects on other vehicles will lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence regarding Plaintiff’s vehicle, other than statements
to this effect. This request seeks documents without limitation into
investigation by GM regarding engine defects in all Chevy Vehicles. Thus, this
request is overbroad as drafted, and Plaintiff’s motion is denied with respect
to Nos. 17, 22, 23, 24, 34, 35, 38, 41, 42, 45, and 48.
70, 72, 73, 74, 78, 79, and 80 
No. 54 – all documents that YOU
use or have used, since 2016, to evaluate consumer requests for repurchases
pursuant to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
GM objects to this Request on the
grounds that it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is
not limited to the subject vehicle at issue in this action. GM also objects to
this Request as it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be
unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the
amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the
litigation. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information in the form of GM’s
internal policies and procedures. GM further objects to this Request to the
extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or
work-product doctrine. 
Subject to the terms and
conditions of the Protective Order and in accordance with the Informal
Discovery Conference and pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section
2030.230, GM refers Plaintiff to the following produced documents: the Service
Policies and Procedures Manuals and GM’s Call Center’s Policies and Procedures.
Plaintiff seeks a further response
because she argues this request seeks documents and information concerning
Defendant's Lemon Law, warranty, and recall policies and procedures. Courts
have repeatedly found these documents relevant to SBA claims. 
The court agrees
with Plaintiff that an order compelling a further response is warranted. If GM
contends that portions of responsive documents are privileged, GM is to provide
a response and a privilege log. Otherwise, Plaintiffs’ request is reasonably calculated
to lead to discovery of admissible evidence and Plaintiffs have demonstrated
good cause warranting an order compelling a further response. To the extent the
documents contain confidential information, it should be produced subject to
the protective order. As such, the request as to No. 54 is granted.
No. 56 – All training manuals
and/or other documents relating to the training given to YOUR employees,
agents, or representatives, since 2016, in connection with handling consumer
lemon law repurchase requests.
GM objected to
this request on the grounds that it is vague, overbroad, burdensome and on the
grounds that it sought documents not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. GM additionally objected to this request to
the extent it sought documents protected by attorney-client privilege and/or
work product privilege, and confidential, proprietary and trade secret
information. 
Plaintiff contends that a further
response to this request is warranted because this request seeks documents and
information concerning Defendant's Lemon Law, warranty, and recall policies and
procedures. Courts have repeatedly found these documents relevant to SBA
claims. In opposition, GM contends that no order compelling a further response
to this request is warranted because GM has agreed to produce various documents
pursuant to protective order, including documents responsive to this request. 
The court agrees
with Plaintiff that an order compelling a further response is warranted. If GM
contends that portions of responsive documents are privileged, GM is to provide
a response and a privilege log. Otherwise, Plaintiffs’ request is reasonably calculated
to lead to discovery of admissible evidence and Plaintiffs have demonstrated
good cause warranting an order compelling a further response. To the extent the
documents contain confidential information, it should be produced subject to
the protective order. As such, the request as to No. 56 is granted.
No. 66 - All LEMON LAW DOCUMENTS
published by YOU and provided to YOUR employees, agents, and representatives. 
GM objects to this Request on the
grounds that the terms “LEMON LAW DOCUMENTS,” “published,” and “provided” are
vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request as it is overbroad, unduly
burdensome, oppressive, not reasonably limited in time or geographic scope, and
seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the subject
vehicle or issues in this action. GM further objects to this Request because it
is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably
difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.
Subject to the terms and
conditions of the Protective Order and in accordance with the Informal
Discovery Conference and pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section
2030.230, GM produced the following documents: the Service Policies and Procedures
Manuals; GM’s Call Center’s Policies and Procedures; and CA CEC Training
Material.
The Court finds this request is
overbroad, as it is not reasonably tailored by particular types of documents,
within a particular timeframe, or limited to particular types of vehicles, and
likely to require significant production on Defendant’s behalf.  Thus, the request as to No. 66 is denied.
No. 70 – all documents, including
ESI and emails, regarding any communications between YOU and any government
agency or entity (e.g., the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
(“NHTSA”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), or any other similar
government agency) regarding engine defects in Chevrolet vehicles that are
equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle.
No. 73 - All Transportation Recall
Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (“TREAD”) reports YOU submitted
concerning Chevrolet vehicles that are equipped with the same engine as the
subject vehicle.
No. 74 - All NHTSA complaints in
YOUR possession that relate to engine defects in Chevrolet vehicles that are
equipped with the same engine as the subject vehicle. 
Among other objections, GM objects
to these Requests because it is overbroad and seeks documents that are
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence as it is not limited to the subject vehicle at issue in this action.
GM also objects to these Requests on the grounds that they are burdensome and
oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive
considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. 
The Court finds
these requests cannot be granted because they seek documents without limitation
as to other Chevrolet Vehicles. The request is overbroad as drafted, and
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate why a request seeking reports, documents, or
complaints on other Chevrolet Vehicles is reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence on the Subject Vehicle.
No. 72 - All Early Warning Reports
(“EWR”) YOU submitted to NHTSA concerning CHEVROLET VEHICLES that are equipped
with the same engine as the subject vehicle. 
GM stated that
reports submitted to the NHTSA are publicly available on its website. Plaintiff
contends that a further response to this request is warranted because
responsive documents are generally relevant. 
 
Documents
submitted to the NHTSA constitute a public record, and GM has pointed Plaintiff
to how to access such documents on NHTSA’s website. Plaintiff does not contend
that Plaintiff is unable to obtain these documents or that documents submitted
to NHTSA are not a public record. Thus, GM’s response is sufficient, and
Plaintiffs’ motion is denied with respect to request no. 72.
No. 78 - All documents reflecting
performance standards relating to the engine in Chevrolet vehicles that are
equipped with the same engine the subject vehicle.
GM objects to this Request on the
grounds that the terms “reflecting,” “performance standards,” and “relating to”
are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request as it is overbroad and
seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT
VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM further objects to this Request because it
is burdensome and oppressive, 
The request is overbroad, and
seeks information relating ot other vehicles without providing good cause. The
request is denied as to no. 78.
Nos. 79 and 80- all documents
including electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning
DCT P2138, and DCT P015B. 
GM objects to this Request on the
grounds that the terms “concerning” is vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to
this Request on the grounds that it is overbroad and seeks documents that are
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action.
GM further objects to this Request as it is burdensome and oppressive, and that
compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of
the case 
The request is overbroad, and
seeks information relating to other vehicles without providing good cause. The
request is denied as to nos. 79-80.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is denied. First, Plaintiff has not requested sanctions in the memorandum of
points and authorities. (CCP section 2023.040.) And second, sanctions are not
warranted here in light of the ruling.
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to requests for production is DENIED in part
and GRANTED in part. It is granted as to Request Nos. 54 and 56 subject to the
protective order, and otherwise denied. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
DENIED.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.