  Case Number:  19STCV10725    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-30-24 a/f 2-8-24 (via 1-19-24 ex parte order)
Case:
19STCV10725
Trial
Date: 2-2-24 c/f 8-28-23 c/f 8-7-23
 
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Esther Chao
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Michelle Santopietro
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 1, 2010, plaintiff Jane Doe entered into a month-to-month rental
agreement for unit 309 at 1321 N. Las Palmas Ave., Los Angeles, for a monthly
rate of $975/month. The unit is on the top floor. On November 21, 2013, a roof
leak appeared, thereby causing water intrusion into the unit. Upon reporting
the leak, Plaintiff maintains the leak was not correctly repaired, which led to
several years of leaking into the unit and mold development. 
 
On
July 25, 2017, Defendant served a 60-Day Notice to Quit, and filed a subsequent
unlawful detainer action on September 28, 2017. Pending the unlawful detainer
action, Plaintiff maintains an employee violently and sexually threatened
Plaintiff as a means of forcing Plaintiff from the unit. Judgment on the UD was
entered in favor of Defendant, but during the course of the UD action,
Plaintiff alleges continuing threats and stolen property. 
 
On
March 26, 2019, Jane Doe filed a complaint for Breach of Warranty of
Habitability, Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, Nuisance, Retaliatory
Eviction, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Violation of
California Civil Code section 1942.4. On July 18, 2019, Jane Doe filed a first
amended complaint for Breach of Warranty of Habitability, Breach of Covenant of
Quiet Enjoyment, Nuisance, Retaliatory Eviction, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.4,
Negligent Hiring Supervision and/or Retention, Negligence, and Violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200. On August 29, 2023, the court
granted Jane Doe leave to file a second amended complaint, which led to the
filing of a 14 cause of action 149 paragraph complaint for Breach of Warranty
of Habitability, Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, Nuisance, Retaliatory
Eviction, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California
Civil Code section 1942.4, Negligent Hiring Supervision and/or Retention,
Negligence, Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Breach of
Contract, Negligent Misrepresentation, Premises Liability, Constructive
Eviction, and Fraud/Concealment. Defendant answered the second amended
complaint on October 30, 2023. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Defendant
Esther Chao moves move for judgment on the pleadings to the second amended complaint
on grounds that the entire action is barred by the doctrines of res judicata
and collateral estoppel. The subject defenses are alleged as the eighth
affirmative defense in the answer. Plaintiff in opposition challenges the
arguments as mischaracterization of the underlying unlawful detainer
proceeding. Nothing in the unlawful detainer action addressed the substance of
the subject action, including the cross-complaint itself which raised personal
injury claims. Defendant in reply contends the habitability defenses raised in
the answer were properly part of the subject matter for the unlawful detainer
action.
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings serves the
function of a demurrer, challenging only defects on the face of the complaint…
[¶] The grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings must appear on the
face of the complaint or from a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice.” (Richardson-Tunnell v. School
Ins. Program for Employees (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1056, 1061.)
In considering a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts consider whether
the factual allegations, assumed true, are sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (Fire Insurance Exchange v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452-453.)
 
“No
motion may be made pursuant to this section if a pretrial conference order has
been entered pursuant to Section 575, or within 30 days of the date the action
is initially set for trial, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise
permits.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(e).) The motion was untimely filed under the first portion of the statute.
“[S]ection 438, subdivision (e) ‘authorizes the trial court to permit
late filings of such motions and does not specify any grounds which might serve
to limit its power to do so.’” (Korchemny v. Piterman
(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 1032, 1054.) While the court specially set the motion for
hearing, nothing in the ex parte order determined the motion was timely filed
or required hearing before trial. Nevertheless, given the potential impact to
the impending trial, and the five year trial limit, the court considers the
merits of the motion.
 
On the sufficiency of the meet and confer effort, the
court declines to deny the motion on grounds of an insufficient effort. “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be
grounds to grant or deny the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).) Furthermore, “This section does not apply to any
of the following: ... (4) A motion brought less than 30 days before trial. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (d)(4).)
 
On the merits, Defendant specifically contends claim
preclusion of issues due to the prior submission of said issues before the
unlawful detainer action court as affirmative defenses (175STUD02735).
[Declaration of Christina Newell.] “Claim preclusion applies when ‘(1) the
decision in the prior proceeding is final and on the merits; (2) the present
proceeding is on the same cause of action as the prior proceeding; and (3) the
parties in the present proceeding or parties in privity with them were parties
to the prior proceeding.’” (Planning & Conservation League v. Castaic
Lake Water Agency (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 210, 226.) 
 
The doctrine of res judicata gives certain conclusive effect
to a former judgment in subsequent litigation involving the same
controversy.  It seeks to curtail
multiple litigation causing vexation and expense to the parties and wasted
effort and expense in judicial administration. 
Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents relitigation of the same
cause of action in a second suit between the same parties or parties in privity
with them. Under the doctrine of res judicata, if a plaintiff prevails in an
action, the cause is merged into the judgment and may not be asserted in a
subsequent lawsuit. All claims based on the same cause of action must be
decided in a single suit; if not brought initially, they may not be raised at a
later date. Res judicata precludes piecemeal litigation by splitting a single
cause of action or relitigation of the same cause of action on a different
legal theory or for different relief. (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co.
(2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 897.) “Res Judicata is not a bar to claims arising after
the filing of the initial complaint.” A party may assert new claims in an
amended pleading, “but if no such pleading is filed, a plaintiff is not
foreclosed. [Citation.] The general rule that a judgment is conclusive as to
matters that could have been litigated ‘does not apply to new rights acquired
pending the action which might have been, but which were not, required to be
litigated [Citation]’.” (Allied Fire Protection v. Diede Const., Inc.
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 150, 155; Planning and Conservation League v. Castaic
Lake Water Agency, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at 227.)
 
“In general, collateral estoppel precludes a party from
relitigating issues litigated and decided in a prior proceeding.  (Citations.) ‘Traditionally, we have applied
the doctrine only if several threshold requirements are fulfilled. First, the
issue sought to be precluded from relitigation must be identical to that
decided in a former proceeding. Second, this issue must have been actually
litigated in the former proceeding. Third, it must have been necessarily decided
in the former proceeding. Fourth, the decision in the former proceeding must be
final and on the merits. Finally, the party against whom preclusion is sought
must be the same as, or in privity with, the party to the former proceeding.
(Citation.)’” (Gikas v. Zolin (1993) 6 Cal.4th 841, 848–849.)
 
In considering the basis for claim preclusion based on the
unlawful detainer affirmative defenses, the court also considers the nature of
the underlying proceeding. “[I]t is sufficient to note that the proceeding is
summary in character; that, ordinarily, only claims bearing directly upon the
right of immediate possession are cognizable” (Vella v. Hudgins (1977)
20 Cal.3d 251, 255; See Mehr v. Superior Court (1983) 139
Cal.App.3d 1044, 1049; Cheney v. Trauzettel (1937) 9 Cal.2d 158,
159.)
 
A review of the October 3, 2017, in pro per filed form
answer shows affirmative defense boxes checked for habitability, retaliation,
and discrimination. A handwritten addition reiterates the retaliation and
habitability claims, as well as employee intimidation claims. [Newell Dec., Ex.
B.] In an amended answer filed by counsel, the answer again checks boxes for
habitability, with new defenses for improper service, estoppel and waiver based
on the acceptance of rent, retaliation, and discrimination. Lacking are any of
the prior written allegations of employee harassment and threats. [Id., Ex. C.]
The judgment itself constitutes a preexisting form document indicating
restitution of the premises and damages of $3,399.99. [Id., Ex. G.] 
 
The court accepts the motion for judgment on the pleadings
based on the potential for a subsequent improper challenge to the habitability
conditions, retaliation and constructive eviction claims raised in the prior
affirmative defenses. (Vella v. Hudgins, supra, 20 Cal.3d  257.) Nevertheless, “the record herein fails to disclose that [Plainiff] had the fair
adversary hearing contemplated” by the parties in the underlying unlawful
detainer action. (Ibid.) 
 
The motion itself consists of blanket conclusions of
preclusion based on a comparison of pleadings and exhibits between the prior
action and the subject action. The exhibits purportedly intended for
presentation at the instant trial, with the argument that the “majority” of
said items were previously considered in the underlying unlawful detainer
action, are summarily incorporated without discussion of the impacts to any
possession or damages award determination by the unlawful detainer court. [Id.,
Ex. H-J.] In other words, the court cannot determine
as a matter of law from the complaint, answer and judicially noticeable
exhibits (notwithstanding the lack of any specific request for judicial notice)
that the unlawful detainer court considered the validity of any and all of the
defenses, including dismissal of any damages claims.
 
The court therefore finds that
Defendant fails to meet the burden of res judicata and collateral estoppel for
purposes of a motion for summary judgment on the eve of trial. (Id. at
pp. 257-258; Needelman v. DeWolf Realty Co., Inc. (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 750, 761.) The court otherwise declines to specifically parse out potentially
barred individual causes of action on behalf of
Defendant, and instead defers to the parties at the time of trial. The motion
is denied. 

Trial remains set for February 13, 2024.


Moving Defendant to give notice.
 