 Case Number:  23STCV04164    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-30-24
Case
#23STCV04164
 
QUASH
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Mark Geragos
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Donald Erikson
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Quash Service of the Summons
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
David Erikson, “an elite and highly experienced attorney” accepted an “offer to
act as “Of Counsel” for the law firm Geragos & Geragos. In addition to
handling the equivalent of an “entire intellectual property department” and
handling “two raging litigation matters,” Plaintiff also contributed more than
2,000 hours of work in other “important and lucrative civil matters” for the
firm. While the parties engaged in some form of moderately specified
compensation agreement, Plaintiff maintains Defendant in fact “stiffed”
Plaintiff on some or all promised compensation, notwithstanding the tremendous
wealth of Mark Geragos. While the parties sought a compensation payment, no
satisfactory agreement materialized. 
 
On
February 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Quantum Meruit, Breach of
Contract, Open Book Account, Account Stated, Promissory Fraud, and Unjust
Enrichment.
 
RULING: Denied.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The
court takes judicial notice of the existence of the filed pleadings,
declarations, and orders. [Declaration of David Erikson.] The court declines to
take judicial notice of any content of the pleadings for purposes of the truth
of the matter asserted, or any conclusions of fact in any court order, as
applicable.
 
Evidentiary
Objections: Overruled.
 
Specially appearing defendant Mark Geragos moves to quash
service of the summons and complaint on grounds of lack of direct service, and
invalid substituted service. Defendant maintains that substituted at the
residence was invalid and Plaintiff should have instead followed with service
at the business address. Plaintiff in opposition contends the motion is
procedurally improper, and service at the residence was required due to a
security guard at the business address both denying any affiliation with the Geragos
firm, and otherwise barring access to the office or maintaining no such office
existed at the visited building. Plaintiff then cites other cases as examples
of “frivolous” motions to quash. Defendant in reply maintain Plaintiff fails to
establish valid service.
 
Given the special setting of the motion by the court, the
court considers the motions on the substantive question, and declines to
dismiss the motion based on the filing date.
 
A plaintiff has the initial burden to establish valid
statutory service of a summons and complaint. (Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1439-40; Floveyor Internat. v. Sup. Ct. (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 789, 794.) The proof of service was executed by a licensed
process server by leaving the summons and complaint with a person apparently in
charge identified as Marcelina Reyes on October 17, 2023. The proof of service
complies, including a declaration of diligence showing three prior attempts,
and mailing upon completion of service. 
 
“The return of
a process server registered [under] Division 8 of the Business and Professions
code upon process or notice establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of producing
evidence, of the facts stated in the return.” (Evid. Code, § 647.) “If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the
presence of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in
charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other
than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age,
who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy
of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day
after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., 415.20, subd.
(b).) Service in this context is allowed “upon a person upon a person whose ‘relationship with the person to be served makes it
more likely than not that they will deliver process to the named party.’” (Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group,
Inc. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1387, 1393; see Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 546
(footnote 3).) 
 
The parties do not factually
dispute the process server in fact left the papers with Reyes on the premises.
The motion lacks any specific argument denying any basis of authority for Reyes
to accept service of process simply as a person present in the household at the
time of service. 
 
The motion is therefore denied. Defendant to file a
responsive pleading within 10 days of this order.
 
Moving
Defendant to provide notice.
 