 Case Number:  22STCV22080    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes (“Plaintiff”) and Eileen
Reyes filed this action against Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc LSE, Ivan
Rodriguez, and Does 1-50 for negligence and negligence per se. 
On
September 8, 2022, Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc. (erroneously sued and
served as Milestone Haulers Inc LSE) and Ivan Rodriguez (“Defendants”) filed an
answer. 
On
October 5, 2022, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Eileen Reyes with prejudice at
Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
March 25, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for an order to enforce a court order
to compel Plaintiff to submit to a neuropsychological independent mental
examination by defense expert Ted. D. Evans, Ph.D., to be heard on April 17,
2024.  On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition.  On April 10, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to issue an order enforcing the Court’s January 17, 2024 order
compelling Plaintiff to attend a mental examination with neuropsychologist Ted D.
Evans, Ph.D. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
DISCUSSION 
On
January 17, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff to
attend a mental examination with neuropsychologist Ted D. Evans, Ph.D., within
30 days.  The Court ordered that Dr.
Evans produce the testing results, including the raw testing data, to
Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to a protective order.  In addition, the Court reopened discovery and
ordered that discovery and related deadlines would be based on the May 6, 2024
trial date. 
After
the January 17, 2024 hearing, believing that Dr. Evans would not agree to
produce the testing results to Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendants’ counsel
attempted to locate another expert to conduct the examination.  Defendants’ counsel located another expert
but then contacted Dr. Evans, who agreed to conduct the examination on the
terms the Court ordered. 
On
February 29, 2024, Defendant’s counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel to
schedule the examination.  Plaintiff’s
counsel responded that Plaintiff was not required to submit to an examination
because the Court’s January 17, 2024 order specified that the examination was
to take place within 30 days. 
Defendants
now ask the Court to issue an order requiring Plaintiff to attend a mental
examination with neuropsychologist Ted D. Evans, Ph.D. after the deadline specified
in the Court’s January 17, 2024 order, after the discovery cut-off date, and
less than three weeks before trial. 
If
Defendants needed additional time to identify an expert to conduct the
examination in compliance with the Court’s January 17, 2024 order, Defendants
could have asked Plaintiff’s counsel to stipulate to additional time or sought
ex parte relief from the Court before the expiration of the 30-day deadline.  Defendants instead filed a motion to enforce
an order which Plaintiff did not violate. 
The
Court denies the motion.  The Court also
denies Defendants’ and Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Milestone
Haulers Inc. (erroneously sued and served as Milestone Haulers Inc LSE) and Ivan
Rodriguez to compel Plaintiff Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes to attend a mental
examination with neuropsychologist Ted D. Evans after the deadline specified in
the Court’s January 17, 2024 order. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.