  Case Number:  19STCV37977    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  T 19STCV37977 SALINAS V TRANSIT SYSTEM-TENTATIVE RULINGS

MOTION FOR BIFURCATION BY CROSS-DEFENDANT
ACRISURE
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Acrisure of California, LLC
dba TIB Transportation Insurance Brokers’ Motion to Bifurcate the three
Cross-Complaints (Urciel, Mejia, Lemus) for all purposes is GRANTED in Part and
DENIED in Part.  Bifurcation is GRANTED
only as to trial.  Bifurcation is DENIED
as to “all purposes.”
Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Acrisure of
California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Brokers (Cross-Defendant)
moved to bifurcate the three newly-filed indemnity and contribution
cross-complaints for all purposes (Urciel v. Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc.,
et al – Case no. 20STCV39458; Mejia v. Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc., et al –
Case no. 19STCV41653; and Lemus v. Rodriguez et al. – Case no.
19STCV44511).  Cross-Defendant filed a
notice of non-opposition and no opposition has been filed.
Discussion 
The Court is authorized to
bifurcate trial when it furthers the convenience of, or avoids prejudice, or is
conducive to expedition and economy. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1048(b).) 
Cross-Defendant sufficiently provided facts showing that it needs more
time to prepare their defense against the claims alleged in the three
cross-complaints.  The current trial date
being set for August 2024.  Bifurcating
trial will avoid prejudice to Cross-Defendant. 
The Court finds that good cause is shown to bifurcate trial as to the
three cross-complaints.  
The Court noted that
Cross-Defendant requested bifurcation for “all purposes.”  However, the statutory authority only
provides for the bifurcation of trial. 
Bifurcation for “all purposes” is not proper.
The motion to bifurcate is
GRANTED only as to trial.  
________________________________
 
MOTIONS TO DISMISS BY
TOROSSIAN AND HAMPARIAN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Specially Appearing Defendant Jack
Torossian’s Motion to Dismiss (Salinas) (Res. No. x6877) is OFF-CALENDAR.
Specially Appearing Defendants
Jack Torossian and Astrik Hamparian’s Motion to Dismiss (Mejia) (Res. No.
x8714) is GRANTED.
Specially Appearing Defendant
Jack Torossian’s Amended Motion to Dismiss and Motion to Dismiss (Lemus) (Res.
No. x7294) are GRANTED.
Specially Appearing Defendants
Jack Torossian and Astrik Hamparian’s Motion to Dismiss (Urciel) (Res. No.
x3234) is GRANTED.
Introduction 
Specially Appearing Defendant
Jack Torossian (Torossian) moved to dismiss the Complaint of Plaintiffs
Magdalena Fatima Salinas, Rosa Lidia Alas, and Gregoria Moran Rodriguez
(collectively, Salinas).  The motion was
filed May 2, 2024 (Res. No. x6877). 
Opposition has not been filed.  On
May 8, 2024, Salinas voluntarily dismissed Jack Torossian.  Because of the voluntary dismissal, the
Motion to Dismiss (Res. No. x6877) is taken OFF-CALENDAR.
Torossian and Specially Appearing
Defendant Astrik Hamparian (Hamparian) moved to dismiss the Complaint of
Plaintiffs Lucidio Sanchez Mejia, Veronica Guadalupe Sanchez, Rosalia Gonzaga
Hidalgo, Jose Pablo Arellano, Victorino Gonzaga, Jr., Raudel Munoz Quijas,
Liliana Victoria Quijas, Valerie Elizabeth Quijas, Yuridia Arellano, and
Antonio De Jesus (collectively, Mejia). 
The motion was filed May 2, 2024 (Res. No. x8714).  Opposition has not been filed. 
Torossian filed an amended motion
to dismiss the Complaint of Plaintiff Isabel Lopez Lemus (Lemus).  The amended motion was filed on May 6, 2024
(Res. No. x7294).  Torossian then filed
another motion to dismiss on May 10, 2024, under the same reservation
number.  Opposition as to either motion
has not been filed.
Torossian and Hamparian moved to
dismiss the Complaint of Rosa Urciel (Urciel). 
The motion was filed on May 9, 2024 (Res. No. x3234).  Opposition has not been filed.
Discussion 
Torossian and Hamparian both
moved to dismiss under the mandatory and permissive dismissal statutes.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 583.250 and
583.420.)  Torossian and Hamparian argued
that the Mejia, Lemus, and Urciel’s Summons and Complaints were not served
within the relevant two and three year time periods.  The Mejia Action was filed on November 19,
2019.  The Lemus Action was filed on
December 10, 2019.  The Urciel Action was
filed on October 14, 2020.  Torossian and
Hamparian argue that they have not yet been served in these actions.  Torossian and Hamparian’s argument is found
to be merited.  
For good cause shown, the motions
to dismiss the Mejia, Lemus, and Urciel Actions are GRANTED.  Defendants Torossian and Hamparian are
dismissed without prejudice from the Mejia, Lemus, and Urciel Actions.  The court will sign the proposed orders.
___________________________________

MOTION TO DISMISS BY
UNIVERSAL CHURCH
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant The Universal Church, Inc.’s Motion
to Dismiss All DOE Defendants (Mejia, Lemus, Quinteros, and Urciel) is DENIED. 
Defendant The Universal Church,
Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
Introduction 
Defendant The Universal Church,
Inc. (Defendant) moved to dismiss all “Doe” Defendants named in the Mejia (Case
No. 19STCV41653), Lemus (Case No. 19STCV44511), Quinteros (Case No.
20STCV17386) and Urciel (Case No. 20STCV39458) matters.  The instant motion was filed on June 4,
2024.  Defendant filed a notice
non-opposition on June 24, 2024.
Discussion 
Defendant moved to dismiss under
the mandatory and permissive dismissal statutes.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 583.250 and
583.420.)  Defendant argued that the
Mejia, Lemus, Quinteros, and Urciel matters were not served upon the Doe
Defendants within the relevant two and three year time periods.  The Mejia Action was filed on November 19,
2019.  The Lemus Action was filed on
December 10, 2019.  The Quinteros Action
was filed on May 7, 2020.  The Urciel
Action was filed on October 14, 2020. 
Defendant argued that this Court has the authority to dismiss the Doe
Defendants under Code of Civil Procedure, section 128(a)(3) and (8).  However, Defendant failed to present any
legal authority to show that it has standing to request dismissal of parties to
the action other than itself, specifically unnamed Doe Defendants.  Without standing, Defendant’s arguments are
not persuasive.
Defendant’s motion to dismiss is
DENIED.  
_________________________________________
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT OF US BUS, ETC. BY CROSS-DEFENDANT ACRISURE
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Acrisure of California, LLC
dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is
OVERRULED IN (Mejia/Arellano).
Cross-Defendant Acrisure of
California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Motion to Strike
Portions of the Cross-Complaint is DENIED.
Cross-Defendant Acrisure of
California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay.
Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter
& Limo Inc. “which will do business as” US Coachways, Inc.’s Requests for
Judicial Notice in support of their Opposition to the Demurrer and Motion to
Strike are GRANTED (despite the procedural defect in failing to provide the
notice as a separate document) but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay.
Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Acrisure of
California, LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Broker (Cross-Defendant or
TIB) demurred to Cross-Complainant US Bus Charter & Limo Inc. “which will
do business as” US Coachways, Inc.’s (Cross-Complainant or US Coachways)
Cross-Complaint (XC).  Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer placed into issue the entirety of the Cross-Complaint.  The Cross-Complaint at issue is the pleading
filed within the related case Mejia v. Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc., et al.
(Super. Ct., Los Angeles County, 19STCV41653) (Mejia).
This matter was previously heard
on May 21, 2024, wherein the Court continued the matter to this date so that US
Coachways could file the Cross-Complaint related to Mejia.  However, in reviewing the Court file again,
the Court was able to locate the Cross-Complaint at issue.  The Cross-Complaint was filed on April 12,
2024 – the same day that the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike were
filed.  
Discussion 
Cross-Defendant TIB argued that
another action is pending and that the Cross-Complaint failed to plead
sufficient facts.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
secs. 430.10(c) & (e).)  For “another
action pending”, Cross-Defendant must provide absolute identity of parties and
causes of action.  The identity of the
causes of action is determined by a comparison of the facts from which the
primary rights arose.  There must be an
absolute identity of the causes of action so that claim preclusion would apply
between the two actions.  (Eichman v.
Fotomat Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1170, 1175; Bush v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1374, 1384.)  To support
the “anther action pending” argument, Cross-Defendant cited to an action filed
in Department 15, titled US Bus Charter & Limo Inc. v. Carolina Casualty
Insurance Co., et al. (Super. Ct., Los Angeles County, 2024, 23STCV07779) (Dept
15 Action).  (Alan Jacobus (Jacobus)
Decl., par. 5, Exh. 4.)  Cross-Defendant
asserted that the Dept 15 Action and the Instant Action were both based upon
the same bus accident and the same claim that Cross-Defendant mishandled the
Certificate of Liability Insurance (CLI). 
Although the two actions involved the same bus accident, the claims
alleged against Cross-Defendant and the mishandling of the CLI are
different.  The difference is seen in the
relationship between the parties relative to the other.  In the Dept 15 Action, Cross-Complainant US
Coachways is referenced as the “Additional Insured” on the CLI.  Cross-Defendant TIB was alleged to be the
insurance broker for Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc. (Transit Systems).  Transit Systems is alleged to be the insured
and the client of Cross-Defendant TIB. 
Transit Systems allegedly retained TIB to obtain the proper insurance
for the event.  Despite being properly
named as the “Additional Insured” on the CLI, Carolina Casualty Insurance
Company, the insurer, allegedly refused to provide coverage to US
Coachways.  (Jacobus Decl., par. 5, Exh.
4:  Second Amended Complaint (SAC) pars.
12-26.)  There is no allegation that US
Coachways had any express relationship with Cross-Defendant TIB, the insurance
broker for Transit Systems.  However, in
the Instant Action, Cross-Complainant US Coachways is not identified as the “Additional
Insured” on the CLI but is the alleged insured. 
In the instant action, US Coachways and TIB were alleged to be in an
express relationship wherein TIB, as a broker, agreed to procure insurance for
US Coachways and add Universal Church, as an “Additional Insured”.  However, TIB mishandled the CLI by failing to
name US Coachways as the insured on the CLI. 
The CLI in the Instant Action named a non-party, “American Tour &
Travel, Inc.” as the insured.  (XC pars.
8-14.)  For this mishandling, the insurer
refused to provide coverage to both US Coachways and the Additional Insured,
The Universal Church.  Because the
parties stand in a different relationship to each other when comparing the two
Actions, the facts and primary rights alleged are not the same and claim
preclusion would be inapplicable.  There
is insufficient showing as to the “another action pending” argument.   
The demurrer based upon “another
action pending” is OVERRULED.
As for the argument that
insufficient facts were pled to support the causes of action (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 430.10(e)), Cross-Defendant’s Points and Authorities is silent as to the
issue.  Cross-Defendant failed to present
any argument applying the facts to the legal authority.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to
seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that
which … [a party] has left unspoken.'” 
(Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  “Contentions are waived when a party fails to
support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  With Cross-Defendant’s silence as to the
contention, the Demurrer on insufficient fact pleading is not persuasive.
The demurrer on the separate
ground of insufficient fact pleading is OVERRULED.
Cross-Defendant TIB’s motion to
strike sought to strike the Prayer’s request for prejudgment interest.  (XC, Prayer par. 7.)  Cross-Defendant argued that the request for
prejudgment interest is irrelevant, false, or improper because the alleged
damages to support prejudgment interest is uncertain or incapable of being made
certain by calculation.  However, the
Court disagrees with Cross-Defendant. 
Cross-Complainant’s damages are “capable of being made certain by
calculation” because the underlying litigation will be resolved and the damages
and fees incurred by Co-Cross-Defendant The Universal Church, Inc. will be
definitive.  Nothing in the statutory
authority or case law authority supports Cross-Defendant’s contention that the
damages must be made certain at the time of filing.  It is noted that the three cases relied upon
by Cross-Defendant reviewed the propriety of a prejudgment interest award when
judgment was entered.  (Duale v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 718, 728-729; Sackett v. Spindler
(1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 220, 240; Steinfeld v. Foote-Goldman Proctologic Med.
Grp., Inc. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 13, 21.) 
The procedural stance of the Instant Action is still in the pleading
stage.  Cross-Defendant’s argument is not
persuasive.
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
CLERK OF THE COURT TO GIVE NOTICE