 Case Number:  24NNCV01858    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel DepositionOscar Herrera Perez, et al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., A California CorporationMoving Party: Plaintiffs Oscar Herrera Perez; Anabel Herrera BecerraResponding Party: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.Tentative Ruling: GRANT, in partBACKGROUNDThis is a lemon law case regarding Plaintiffs’ purchase of a 2022 Honda Odyssey. Plaintiffs allege that shortly after buying the car, it began to experience serious defects and nonconformities with its electrical system. (Motion, p. 7.)  Plaintiffs allege they brought the car to an authorized repair facility several times, which failed to bring the car to conformity with its applicable warranties, and that Defendant refused to offer restitution or replacement of Plaintiffs’ car. Plaintiffs filed suit alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act. (Declaration of Harita Nandivada, “Nandivada Decl.,” ¶ 2.) On August 29, 2024, Plaintiffs served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian(s) of Record, which identified with twenty-six (26) matters for examination, including matters related to the purchase of the car, repairs to the car, warranty claims regarding the car, Defendant’s decision not to issue a buy back, and Defendant’s policies and procedures for responding to consumer complaints. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The deposition was noticed for October 7, 2024, and requested Defendant’s counsel to provide alternative dates by September 16, 2024 if the October date did not work. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. B.) On September 17, 2024, Plaintiffs followed up with Defendant regarding the requested deposition dates. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.) That day, Defendant served its objections to Plaintiffs’ Notice of Deposition, informing Plaintiffs it would not produce a witness for the October 7, 2024 deposition. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 7, Exh. C.) On September 27, 2024, Plaintiffs sent a written letter regarding Defendant’s objections, (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 8, Exh. D), and reached out on several dates via e-mail requesting alternative dates if Defendant or its witness was unavailable. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 8, Exh. B.) On October 7, 2024, Plaintiffs sent Defendant a video link for Defendant’s witness to participate in the deposition. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. B.) After Defendant did not appear, Plaintiffs followed up via email with Defendant for alternative dates for the deposition. (Nandivada Dec., ¶ 10, Exh. B.)On October 9, 2024, Defendant offered three dates in May of 2025, which Plaintiffs rejected due to being too long after the originally noticed deposition date. After further efforts to find a mutually agreeable date for the deposition, the parties did not ultimately reach a mutually agreeable date to schedule a deposition. (Nandivada Dec., ¶ 11, Exh. B.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiffs argue they are entitled to an order compelling Defendant to produce a person most qualified for deposition because Plaintiffs satisfied the statutory requirement for bringing this motion. (Motion, p. 7.) Plaintiffs moreover argue the Court should award sanctions against Defendant for its willful abuse of the discovery process, as Defendant did not act with substantial justification. (Id. at 13.)OPPOSITIONDefendant argues Plaintiffs’ motion should be denied as moot because Defendant has offered to produce a witness and documents. (Opposition, p. 4–5.) Defendant also asserts Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts were not made in good faith. (Id. at 6.) Defendant further argues its objections to Plaintiffs’ notice of deposition should be sustained because the notice seeks testimony that is overly broad, irrelevant, and unduly burdensome. (Id. at 7.) Lastly, Defendant asserts sanctions are not warranted against it, and should instead be applied to Plaintiffs for bringing this motion. (Id. at 8.)REPLYPlaintiffs assert they met applicable statutory and procedural requirements in pursuing a deposition, and argue that the topics of inquiry and requests for production of documents directly relate to the elements of Plaintiffs’ causes of action. (Reply, p. 3.)ANALYSISI. Motion to Compel Deposition The Discovery Act allows “[a]ny party [to] obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) Service of a deposition notice makes attendance by a party deponent and production of requested document mandatory. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) This notice must be served at least 10 days prior to the date scheduled for the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.270, subd. (a).) If the deponent is not a natural person, the notice must “describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.230, 2020.310, italics added.) The deponent is then required to “designate and produce at the deposition those of their officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on their behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230, italics added.) Where a would-be deponent fails to appear, proceed with, or produce documents for deposition in a duly noticed deposition notice, the noticing party may move for an order to compel said deponent’s attendance, testimony, and/or production for inspection of any document described in the deposition notice.¿ Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.230, 2025.450 (a). A motion to compel deposition attendance and production of documents must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the relief requested. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (b).) Good cause is established by a showing that the request is made in good faith and the documents sought are relevant to the subject matter of the action and material to the issues in the litigation. (Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 588.) If the court grants a motion to compel deposition and produce documents, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) In this case, Plaintiffs timely served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition which identified reasonably particularized matters for examination. To establish a prima facie case under the Song-Beverly Act, Plaintiffs must demonstrate that they bought a car from Defendant,  that Defendant provided a written warranty, that the car had a defect covered by the warranty, that an authorized repair facility failed to restore the vehicle to conformity after a reasonable number of opportunities to do so, and that Defendant did not promptly replace or buy back the car. (CACI No. 3201.) Plaintiffs also seek civil penalties against Defendant for its willful violation of the Song-Beverly Act. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c).) Plaintiffs’ categories for examination are accordingly tailored to these issues; Plaintiffs’ listed categories of examination contain matters related to the request for repurchase of the car, repairs performed to it, warranty claims and coverage regarding the car, Defendant’s decision not to issue a buy back, and Defendant’s policies and procedures related to handling consumer complaints. (Nandivada Decl., Exh. A.) In opposition, Defendant contends that demanding a witness to testify on alleged failures, warranty repairs, and complaints related to other vehicles, e-mails and ESI, and TSBs are “not relevant to the claims or defenses in this case” and therefore that the instant motion should be denied. (Opposition, p. 8.) The Court agrees in part. The information sought regarding other vehicles may be relevant to the extent that the same or substantially similar parts exist in other vehicles.  Accordingly, the Court finds that the parties should further meet and confer in order to reach an agreement on the permissible scope of discovery on these issues.  Despite granting Plaintiffs’ motion, the Court finds that sanctions are unwarranted in this case. Ordinarily, the Court imposes monetary sanctions in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the party the deponent is affiliated with; however, the Court finds “other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust” in this case. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) While the record reflects meet and confer efforts took place, these efforts do not justify sanctions. (Nandivada Decl., Exh. B.) Defendant here did not refuse to produce a person most qualified, but actively engaged in meet and confer efforts to schedule a date for deposition — offering to provide alternative dates in light of the limited availability of its person most qualified. (Nandivada Decl., Exh. B.) In stark contrast, Plaintiffs portray Defendant as a bad-faith actor who “has effectively stonewalled Plaintiffs from conducting crucial discovery without any substantial justification or even a showing in good faith.” (Motion, p. 10.) The Court fundamentally disagrees with Plaintiffs’ uncharitable characterization of Defendant’s conduct. The records reflects efforts by both parties to schedule a deposition which evidently reached an impasse — justifying the Court’s intervention. However, the record also reflects that the circumstances justifying the Court’s intervention, specifically regarding the nature of the parties’ meet and confer efforts, also justify the Court’s conclusion that imposing sanctions on either party in this case is not appropriate.To the extent that this motion arises from the parties’ inability to arrive at an agreeable date, the Court orders that deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified be completed by the end of March 2025.RULINGPlaintiffs’ motion to compel deposition is GRANTED. Deposition is to be completed by March 31, 2025.  Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions is DENIED.