 Case Number:  23AHCV01862    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel ComplianceCavanaugh Thompson v. City of PasadenaMoving Party: Defendant City of PasadenaResponding Party: Plaintiff Cavanaugh ThompsonTentative Ruling: ContinuedBACKGROUND On November 17, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with Request for Production, Set One. (Declaration of Lucero Cordova Arellanes ("Arellanes Decl.") ¶ 2, Exhibit ("Ex.") A.) On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff served two unverified responses and objections to Defendant’s discovery. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) On May 7, 2024, after multiple unsuccessful attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the perceived deficiencies in his responses, Defendant moved to compel Plaintiff's responses to the Defendant’s Request for Production, Set One. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant’s motion was heard on May 21, 2024, and was granted as to Request for Production, Set One, Nos. 1, 2, 12–19, 23–26, and 30–31. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. C.) However, Plaintiff’s objections were sustained to the extent Defendant’s requests seek information contained within Plaintiff’s personnel records as defined in the Penal Code; Plaintiff was thus ordered to produce documents responsive to these requests, provide verifications, and "be prepared, should he stand by any Pitchess objection [to the remaining requests], to explain how any document or information withheld actually falls within [Pitchess protection]." (May 21, 2024 Minute Order, p. 4–5.)  On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff served further unverified supplemental responses to the Request for Production, Set One, Nos. 1–3, 12–26, and 30–31, in which Plaintiff stated he was attaching documents responsive to Request Nos. 1, 2, 13–17, 19, 24–26, 30, and 31. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. D.) However, Plaintiff did not produce any documents. (Id.) For the remaining requests, Nos. 4–11 and 27–29, Plaintiff renewed his Pitchess objections, stating he had no further obligation to respond. (Id.) On August 29, 2024, Defendant sent Plaintiff an email requesting the missing documents, verifications, and a privilege log explaining his Pitchess objections. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. E.) Defendant received no response, and again emailed Plaintiff on September 13, 2024 to attempt to resolve the issues informally. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. F.) Without acknowledging Defendant’s assertion that no documents were produced, Plaintiff responded on September 14, 2024, that he would not be providing a privilege log. (Arellanes Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. G.)MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues Plaintiff's responses fail to comply with the Civil Discovery Act, and that Plaintiff failed to provide responsive documents as indicated in his responses. (Motion, p. 5.) Defendant also argues Plaintiff must explain how Pitchess applies if he continues to withhold responsive documents on Pitchess grounds. (Motion, p. 6.) OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues Defendant’s motion is untimely (Opposition, p. 4) and that Defense counsel failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to bringing the instant motion to compel further responses. (Id.) Plaintiff additionally argues a Pitchess motion and protective order is required. (Id. at 5.) Accordingly, Plaintiff maintains that he has complied with Defendant’s discovery, and that Defendant is not entitled to sanctions. (Id. at 8–9.)REPLY Defendant argues its motion to compel compliance with Judge Lofton's order is timely. (Reply, p. 4.) Defendant additionally asserts it met and conferred in good faith prior to filing this motion. (Id. at 5.) Defendant argues that a Pitchess motion is not required because the documents sought do not fall under the categories of documents enumerated in the Pitchess statutes, and that Plaintiff failed to comply with the Court's order to explain how any withheld document or information falls under Pitchess. (Id. at 5, 8.) Defendant accordingly maintains that Plaintiff's counsel should still be sanctioned for his failure to comply with Judge Lofton's order. (Id. at 9.)ANALYSIS The Court finds that the parties have failed to make good faith efforts to resolve this dispute.  Plaintiff claims that documents responsive to Request Nos. 1, 2, 13–17, 19, 24–26, 30, and 31 were served with the supplemental responses.  Plaintiff also claims that verifications were provided.  Defendant suggests that there are irregularities with the verification.   As to Plaintiff's Pitchess objections, Plaintiff’s responses fail to state whether he has documents in his possession that were responsive and not subject to Pitchess protections that it appears Judge Lofton found to be applicable.  As such, regarding Request Nos. 4–11 and 27–29, the Court cannot determine whether Plaintiff: (1) has no responsive documents in his possession; (2) only has responsive documents that are protected by Pitchess; (3) has documents, some which are protected by Pitchess and some that are not; or (4) produced documents responsive to Request Nos. 4–11 and 27–29 that were not protected by Pitchess. The hearing on this motion is continued to December 20, 2024 at 10:00 a.m.  Counsel for both parties are ordered to attend the hearing in person. The parties are to provide a joint status report no later than December 16, 2024 addressing: 1. Whether Plaintiff produced supplemental responsive documents and a verification. 2. Whether Plaintiff: (1) has no responsive documents in his possession; (2) only has responsive documents that are protected by Pitchess; (3) has documents, some which are protected by Pitchess and some that are not; or (4) produced documents responsive to Request Nos. 4–11 and 27–29 that were not protected by Pitchess. All counsel are reminded that the discovery statutes require serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution. Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1281.  All counsel are further reminded that the California State Bar advises that dignity, decorum and courtesy that have traditionally characterized the courts and legal profession of civilized nations are not empty formalities. They are essential to an atmosphere that promotes justice and to an attorney’s responsibility for the fair and impartial administration of justice. Plaintiff’s counsel is reminded that pre-trial discovery is intended to allow a party to investigate the opposing party’s claims and to obtain the evidence supporting those claims.  Plaintiff’s counsel is also reminded that trial courts routinely exclude evidence that was requested but not produced during the discovery process. To the extent that both parties agree that Plaintiff’s personnel file needs to be produced, the Court further suggests that the parties enter into an appropriate stipulated protective order to effectuate that goal without the need for unnecessary motion practice.