  Case Number:  21STCV37991    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to StrikeCase Name: Zenya Dennis v. Adam and Lilith, Business Entity UnknownMoving Party: Defendant Omead Lavassani Responding Party: Unopposed.Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a premises liability dispute in which Plaintiff allegedly went into a store intending to purchase an item and was stabbed by Defendant’s employee.  (Complaint, p. 4.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues the Court should strike certain paragraphs from Plaintiff’s complaint, including the following:1. The words “punitive damages” at p.3, paragraph 14.a.(2). 2. The words, “Willful Failure to Warn” at p.5, paragraph Prem.L-3. 3. The words “willfully or maliciously” at p.5, paragraph Prem.L-3. 4. The entirety of p.6, titled, “Exemplary Damages Attachment.” 5. Alternatively, to striking the entirety of page 6, titled, “Exemplary Damages Attachment” the motion seeks to strike: a. The words “Exemplary Damages” at page 6 in the attachment title; b. The phrase, “Plaintiff alleges defendant was guilty of malice as defined in Civil Code section 3294, and plaintiff should recover, in addition to actual damages, damages to make an example of and to punish defendant,” at page 6, paragraph EX-1; andc. The phrase, “The amount of exemplary damages sought is not shown, pursuant to Civil Code section 425.10.” at page 6, paragraph EX-3. a. 6. Any and all other referenced to punitive damages and/or exemplary damages in any causes of action to which GREEN COSMOS INC. is a party.  (Motion, p. 2.)Defendant argues this motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to properly allege recovery of punitive damages against Defendant. (Id.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition to this motion, which does not request leave to amend. (See, Plaintiff’s Notice of Non-Opposition.)ANALYSISA court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” “[P]unitive damages can only be awarded “where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the Defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.” Civil Code §3294(a). Civil Code §3294 defines malice, oppression and fraud as follows: (1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights. (3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material complaint known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Noonan v. Rousselot (1966) 239 Cal.App.2d 447, 452.)It is appropriate here to grant Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to allege specific facts of malice, oppression, or fraud. Conclusory allegations of fact are not sufficient to demonstrate conduct as oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious. (See Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 83 Cal.App.5th 1137 (2022) (granting a motion to strike punitive damages claims based on the plaintiffs' failure to allege specific facts demonstrating that the defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious, and instead relying on conclusory allegations.) Here, Plaintiff alleges facts that, in this context, are identical to conclusory facts, and are insufficiently specific to support his prayer for relief. (Complaint, p. 6.) Because punitive damages in this action are unsupported, Plaintiff’s request must be stricken.  Plaintiff’s notice of non-opposition to Defendant’s motion to strike does not request leave to amend.  (See, Plaintiff’s Notice of Non-Opposition.)RULINGDefendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.