 Case Number:  20STCV35463    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  31 DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 11/15/2023 CASE NAME/NUMBER: 20STCV35463 BARAK VOLNER, et al. vs HAGAR COHEN GIAQUINTO PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION OF A MINOR Z.V., Age 6 RECOMMENDATION: CONTINUE  TENTATIVE¿ ¿ The Court excuses the personal appearance of Claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.¿  On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff Z.V. filed a motion to file under seal the petition for approval of compromise. On September 27, 2023, Petitioner filed the instant petition for approval of compromise of claim pertaining to Claimant Z.V.  California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(1) states, “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  CRC 2.550(d) makes clear that records cannot be sealed without appropriate findings.  It provides:  The Court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:   (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;    (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;   (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;    (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and   (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)     Plaintiff seeks to seal the petition because it contains confidential medical and financial information pertaining to minor Z.V., including a confidentiality provision of the settlement agreement. A confidential settlement agreement may support sealing of court records. In Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283, the Court considered the issue of whether a confidential settlement agreement can be redacted at length.  The Court concluded, “We agree with defendant that its contractual obligation not to disclose can constitute an overriding interest within the meaning of rule 243.1(d).”  The Court went on, however, to note that the parties’ interests can typically be protected by redacting, as opposed to fully sealing, the subject documents.     However, it is unclear to the Court whether the petition filed on September 27, 2023 is the redacted or unredacted version of the petition, as there was no other copy of the petition lodged with the Court. Because the Court is unable to locate and identify the redacted and unredacted versions of the petition, the Court is therefore unable to evaluate the merits of the request to seal and the petition in relation thereto.   Accordingly, the Court will briefly continue the Hearing on Petition to Confirm Minor's Compromise and Hearing on Motion to Seal Plaintiff Z.V. Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim to ________________. Petitioner must lodge with the Court the redacted and unredacted versions of the petition for the Court’s consideration.   Moving party is ordered to give notice. 