  Case Number:  20STCV16349    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  PATRICIO HARRIS, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MANUEL HERNANDEZ, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV16349  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 15, 2023  Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on Plaintiff Cheuk Ying Lam (“Lam”) on August 10, 2023. (Mot. Werner Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. B.) Plaintiff Lam is in pro per. Responses were due September 18, 2023. (Id. at ¶ 4.) After receiving no responses by September 18, 2023, Uber’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff Lam. Plaintiff Lam did not respond to the Uber Defendants’ letter. To date, Lam has not served responses. Uber therefore seek an order deeming the RFAs admitted. The motion is unopposed. Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Plaintiff Lam has not filed any opposition to the motion, nor has Plaintiff Lam otherwise demonstrated that a response to the RFAs were served in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.  Accordingly, Uber Technologies, Inc. RFAs, set one, is deemed admitted against Plaintiff Lam. (CCP §2033.280(b).)     Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 14th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   