 Case Number:  22STCV13368    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CHARLES ARNOLD THOMAS, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
HK
  LOGISTICS CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV13368
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO STRIKE ANSWERS OF DEFENDANTS HK TRANS LLC AND HK
  LOGISTICS CORPORATION AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS; MOTION TO CONTINUE FINAL
  STATUS CONFERENCE AND TRIAL DATE  


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  22, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Charles Arnold Thomas (“Plaintiff”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on October 7,
2021. On April 21, 2022, Plaintiff Charles Arnold Thomas (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants HK Logistics Corporation, HK Trans LLC, Miguel
Angel Roque, Miguel Angel Roque II (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 to
50 alleging a sole cause of action for motor vehicle. 
On
September 29, 2022, Defendants filed an answer to the complaint. The answer
indicated that Miguel Angel Roque is also known as Miguel Angel Roque II.  
On
September 27, 2023, the Court granted the motions to be relieved as counsel
filed by Ira N. Katz as to Defendants HK Logistics Corporation, HK Trans LLC,
and Miguel Angel Roque. (09/27/23 Minute Order.) The Court indicated that
“[t]he [m]otions are granted and effective upon the filing of the proof of
service of these signed orders upon the Defendants.” (09/27/23 Minute Order.) 
On
September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served notice of service of the signed
orders on Defendants. 
On
December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served motions to strike the answers of,
and enter default against, HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC, as well
as a request for monetary sanctions against each entity. The motions are made
on the grounds that a corporation may not appear in pro per and HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC have had ample time to obtain counsel
but have failed to retain counsel.
Also,
on December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a motion to continue trial and
the final status conference 120 days, to dates in June of 2024, or to a time
thereafter convenient to the Court. Non-jury trial in this action is currently
scheduled to commence on February 14, 2024. 
The
Court will address the respective motions filed by Plaintiff in this one
ruling. 
          The motions
are all unopposed. Any opposition was required to have been filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.
(b).)  
II.     MOTIONS TO STRIKE ANSWERS
          Plaintiff
seeks to strike the answers of, and enter default against, Defendants HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions
against each entity in the amount of $1,061.65. The motions to strike are
substantively identical and therefore the Court will address such motions
collectively. 
 
Legal Standard
          “The
qualifications of the human representing a corporation-or for that matter any
other person or entity-in court is one of vital judicial concern.” (Merco
Constr. Engineers, Inc. v. Municipal Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 724, 730.) “Such
a person is clearly engaged in the practice of law in a representative
capacity. The practice of law is the doing and performing services in a court
of justice in any matter depending therein through its various stages.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted, internal quotations omitted.) “A corporation cannot appear
in court by an officer who is not an attorney and it cannot appear in propria
persona.” (Paradise v. Nowlin (1948) 86 Cal.App.2d 897, 898, citations
omitted.) 
Discussion 
          In support of
the motions, Plaintiff’s counsel, Mitra Chegini (“Chegini”), states that since
September 27, 2023, none of the Defendants have been represented by counsel.
(Chegini Decls., ¶ 4.) The corporate defendants have had a reasonable time and
ample opportunity to retain counsel but there is no indication that any
defendant has retained counsel. (Chegini Decls., ¶ 5.) Counsel declares that
her hourly rate is $450.00 per hour, and she spent 3 hours each per motion, and
incurred a filing fee of $61.65 per motion. (Chegini Decls., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
seeks sanctions against HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC in the amount
of $1,061.65 each pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7(b)(1). (Chegini Decls.,
¶ 6.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s reliance on Merco Construction Engineers, supra,
21 Cal.3d 724 is inapposite. Merco Construction Engineers, supra,
21 Cal.3d 724 does not address striking the answer of a corporate defendant.
Moreover, when Defendants’ answer was filed, both HK Logistics Corporation and
HK Trans LLC were represented by counsel. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has not provided the Court with applicable legal authority to strike the
answers of, and enter default against, Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and
HK Trans LLC.
          As to
Plaintiff’s respective requests for monetary sanctions against Defendants HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is procedurally improper and unsupported. Plaintiff
moves for sanctions pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(1). A
motion for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, however,
“shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the
specific conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subd. (c)(1).) Thus, the requests for monetary sanctions against HK Logistics
Corporation and HK Trans LLC is procedurally improper as Plaintiff failed to
request sanctions in a separate motion. 
          Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions against HK Logistics and HK Trans LLC is made pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.7(b)(1). Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(1) provides
that “[b]y presenting to the court . . . a pleading . . . or other similar
paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is certifying that . . . [i]t is not
being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to
cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.” The
Court fails any basis for sanctions under Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd.
(b)(1). As stated above, when the answer of HK Logistics Corporation and HK
Trans LLC was filed, such parties were represented by counsel. Plaintiff
presents no indication that the answer of such parties was presented for an
improper purpose. The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions against Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC. 
          Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motions to strike the answers of, and enter
default against, Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC. The
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC. 
          The Court,
however, finds it appropriate to ascertain the status of Defendants HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC retaining counsel. Defendants HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC are corporate entities and therefore cannot
appear in this action without an attorney. 
For this reason, the Court orders
Plaintiff to notify Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC of
this fact, and of the setting on the Court’s own motion of an OSC re: HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC retaining new counsel for February 14,
2024, at 8:30 AM in this department. 
III.    MOTION TO
CONTINUE TRIAL 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he power to determine when a
continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a
list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether good
cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such as:
(1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the
continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the
problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Issue No.1: Good Cause for Continuing Trial
          Plaintiff
moves to continue trial and the final status conference on the grounds that
Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC are not represented by
counsel. Plaintiff contends that a trial continuance will allow Defendants HK
Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC to obtain counsel. 
          In support of
the motion to continue trial, counsel for Plaintiff, Mitra Chegini (“Chegini”),
declares that since September 27, 2023, none of the Defendants have been
represented by counsel. (Chegini Decl., ¶ 2.) The FSC and trial dates of this
case are approaching. (Chegini Decl., ¶ 3.) The FSC date is currently set for
January 31, 2024, and the trial is set for February 14, 2024. (Chegini Decl., ¶
4.) One prior continuance has been granted and a stipulation to continue the
FSC and trial is currently not possible. (Chegini Decl., ¶ 6.) The requested
continuance will allow the corporate defendants ample opportunity to obtain
counsel. (Chegini Decl., ¶ 7.) 
          Given that
Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC are currently
unrepresented by counsel, the Court finds it appropriate to continue trial so
that Defendants HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC to retain counsel.
Allowing trial to proceed as scheduled—when the corporate defendants are
unrepresented—would deprive such parties of the opportunity to present a
defense at trial given that corporations cannot appear in propria persona.
(Paradise v. Nowlin, supra, 86 Cal.App.2d 897, 898, citations
omitted.) 
The Court therefore finds that there is
good cause to continue trial and, exercising its discretion under Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens, supra, 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to continue the final status conference and trial of
this action. 
          The Court
continues non-jury trial in this action from February 14, 2024 to Monday, July 1, 2024 at
8:30 AM in this department. All trial-related dates, including the final status
conference, discovery, and motion cut-off dates, are based on the continued
trial date. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motions to
strike the answers and enter default against Defendants HK Logistics
Corporation and HK Trans LLC. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
continue the final status conference and trial. The Court continues non-jury
trial in this action from February 14, 2024 to Monday, July 1, 2024 at 8:30AM
in this department. All trial-related dates, including the final status
conference, discovery, and motion cut-off dates, are based on the continued
trial date.
On the Court’s own motion, the Court
sets an OSC re: HK Logistics Corporation and HK Trans LLC retaining new counsel
for February 14, 2024 at 8:30 AM in this department.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 22nd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 