 Case Number:  22STCV22638    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



LYONELL P. HENSON, et al.,  
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
BALDWIN
  GARDENS, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV22638
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  22, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants and Cross-Defendants Baldwin
Gardens, Inc. and Baldwin Brothers, Inc. (collectively, the “Baldwin
Defendants”)     
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Lyonell P. Henson being attacked, beaten,
robbed, and shot by Defendant Antwan Gibbs (“Gibbs”) on July 14, 2020. On July
13, 2022, Plaintiffs Lyonell P. Henson and Sharisse V. Armstrong-Henson
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Baldwin Gardens, Inc.,
Baldwin Brothers, Inc., PLS Check Cashers 536 E. Manchester Avenue Location, PLS
Check Cashers of California, Inc., PLS Financial Services, Inc., Gibbs, and
Does 1 to 30 (collectively, “Defendants”). 
On
February 15, 2023, Defendant Baldwin Gardens, Inc. filed an answer to the
complaint. 
On
March 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) battery, (2) assault, (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) negligence, and (5) premises liability.

On
May 4, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court sustained the demurrer of
PLS Check Cashers of California, Inc. and PLS Financial Services, Inc. (the
“PLS Defendants”) to the third cause of action in the FAC with leave to amend
and granted their motion to strike with respect to punitive damages with leave
to amend. 
On
June 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
against Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) battery, (2) assault, (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) negligence, and (5) premises
liability. 
On
June 26, 2023, the PLS Defendants filed an answer to the complaint.
On
June 26, 2023, the PLS Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Baldwin
Gardens, Inc. and Baldwin Brothers, Inc. (the “Baldwin Defendants”), as well as
Roes 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for: (1) implied indemnity, (2)
equitable indemnity, (3) total equitable indemnity, (4) declaratory relief, (5)
declaratory relief—duty to defend, (6) express indemnity, and (7) breach of
contract. The cross-complaint alleges that the Baldwin Defendants “are obligated
to reimburse and will be liable to the [PLS Defendants] for any and all
liability so assessed by way of contribution.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 11.)  
On
August 1, 2023, the Baldwin Defendants filed an answer to the cross-complaint.  
On
September 14, 2023, the Baldwin Defendants filed the instant unopposed motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint (the “Motion”). The Baldwin Defendants seek
to file a cross-complaint against co-defendant Gibbs. According to the proof of
service concerning the Motion, Gibbs was not served with the Motion. Also,
based on a review of the court file, it does not appear that Plaintiffs have
served Gibbs with the initial complaint, FAC, or the operative SAC. Gibbs has
not filed an answer or otherwise appeared in this action. 
Moreover,
while asserting to have attached a copy of their proposed cross-complaint to
the Motion, the Baldwin Defendants did not attach a copy of the proposed
cross-complaint to the Motion. While asserting to allege causes of action for
apportionment of fault, indemnification, and/or contribution against Gibbs, the
proposed cross-complaint is not before the Court. 
On
October 11, 2023, the PLS Defendants filed an amendment to cross-complaint
substituting Gibbs for Doe 1 therein. The amendment to cross-complaint was not
filed with a proof of service and, therefore, the Court cannot ascertain
whether Gibbs was served with such amendment.  
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD
          Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (a) provides that “[a] party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.” “Any other cross-complaint may be filed at
any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subd. (b).) “A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) 
Under Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(a) “[a] party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross
complaint setting forth . . . [a]ny cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.” (K.R.L.
Partnership v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 490, 498.) Code Civ.
Proc. § 428.10(b) allows a party to file a cross-complaint alleging “[a]ny
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him.” “[A] related cause of action is a cause of action which arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.” (K.R.L. Partnership v. Superior Court, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th
490, 498.) “Cross-complaints for comparative equitable indemnity would appear
virtually always transactionally related to the main action.” (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All
American Development Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.)   
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          In support of
the Motion, the Baldwin Defendants present the declaration of their counsel,
Linwood Warren Jr. (“Warren”). Counsel declares that this matter arises from
Plaintiff Lyonell P. Henson alleging that he was assaulted by Gibbs on premises
owned by the Baldwin Defendants. (Warren Decl., ¶ 2.) Counsel attests that
after further investigation, it was discovered that Gibbs shares in whole or in
part a portion of Plaintiff Lyonell P. Henson’s claimed damages and therefore
there is a need for a cross-complaint. (Warren Decl., ¶ 7.) 
          Based on the
declaration of Warren in support of the Motion, the Baldwin Defendants allege
that Gibbs is responsible for all or some of the damages incurred by Plaintiff
Lyonell P. Henson.
          The Court,
however, cannot grant the Motion due to two procedural defects. First, the
Baldwin Defendants did not attach a copy of the proposed cross-complaint to the
Motion. Thus, the Court cannot ascertain the facts of the proposed cross-complaint,
or the causes of action asserted therein. 
          Second, and
more importantly, Gibbs was not served with the Motion. Only Plaintiffs and the
PLS Defendants were served with the Motion according to the proof of service. “[D]ue
process requires a party to be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and
be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail.” (Fenn
v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481, citation omitted.) Gibbs has
not been served by Plaintiffs with any pleading in this action. While Gibbs has
not yet appeared in this action, the Court finds that Gibbs should be given
notice of the Motion and an opportunity to respond. The Baldwin Defendants are
seeking to file a cross-complaint against Gibbs. It follows that Gibbs is an
interested party. 
          Accordingly,
the Court CONTINUES the hearing on the Motion to Wednesday, March 6, 2024 at 1:30 PM
in this department so that the Baldwin Defendants can serve Gibbs with the
Motion, as well as provide the Court with a copy of the proposed
cross-complaint. The Court orders the Baldwin Defendants, by the close of
business on February 28, 2024, to file a proof of service reflecting service of
the Motion on Gibbs, as well as file a copy of the proposed cross-complaint
with the Court.
          
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on the
Motion to Wednesday, March 6, 2024, at 1:30 PM in this department so that the
Baldwin Defendants can serve Gibbs with the Motion, as well as provide the
Court with a copy of the proposed cross-complaint. The Court orders the Baldwin
Defendants, by the close of business on February 28, 2024, to file a proof of
service reflecting service of the Motion on Gibbs, as well as file a copy of
the proposed cross-complaint with the Court.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 22nd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 