 Case Number:  23STCV23614    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



JOHN MERRIETT,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
VINCENT
  MACK JR., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV23614
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF
  JOHN MERRIETT’S DEMURRER TO THE ANSWER FILED BY DEFENDANT UBER TECHNOLOGIES,
  INC.


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  22, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is an auto accident case.  On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff John Merriett
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Vincent Mack Jr., Charlotte
Bilis, Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of
action for motor vehicle and general negligence.  Uber filed an Answer to the Complaint on
December 1, 2023.
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
demurrer to Uber’s Answer.  On January 8,
2024, Uber filed an opposition to the demurrer. 
Plaintiff did not file an optional reply.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A party against whom an answer has been filed may object, by
demurrer as provided in Section 430.30, to the answer upon any one or more of
the following grounds:
(a) The answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense.
(b) The answer is uncertain. As used in this subdivision,
“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.
(c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained
from the answer whether the contract is written or oral.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)
A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of
other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint).  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the
function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the pleading; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the pleading are
assumed to be true.  (See Id.) 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on
the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading
that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116
Cal.App.4th at p. 994.)  No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer];  see also Afuso v.
United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved
on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46
Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
Counsel for Plaintiff indicates having
met and conferred with counsel for Uber regarding the subject matter of this
demurrer.  (Zeesman Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Ex.
A.)  The Court finds Plaintiff’s meet and
confer efforts inadequate, as Plaintiff provides no evidence of having
attempted to meet and confer telephonically or in person, as is required under
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a). (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  Nevertheless, the
Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and
confer.  (Id., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(4).)  Therefore, the Court will still
consider Plaintiff’s demurrer, but the Court admonishes Plaintiff to comply
with the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.
Analysis
Plaintiff demurs to Uber’s Answer to
the Complaint on the grounds that the Answer fails to plead facts sufficient to
state an affirmative defense, and on the grounds that the Answer is uncertain.
Plaintiff contends the Answer is comprised solely of generic, boilerplate
affirmative defenses without any factual allegations, and is also uncertain as
a result. The Court finds Plaintiff’s demurrer unpersuasive and unavailing.
Although
not raised in Uber’s opposition, if Plaintiff intended to demur separately to
each affirmative defense on separate grounds for each affirmative defense, i.e.
failure to state facts and uncertainty, Plaintiff was required to have pleaded
each ground for each affirmative defense in a separate paragraph.  (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a) [“[e]ach ground of demurrer must be
in a separate paragraph and must state whether it applies to the entire
complaint, cross-complaint, or answer, or to specified causes of action or
defenses.”])  Plaintiff lumped all 22
affirmative defenses and the grounds for demurrer into one sentence, (Notice, 1:26-27),
which violates rule 3.1320, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of
Court.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1320, subd. (a); A. Demurrers, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A, ¶ 7:103 [“If several grounds are stated conjunctively
in the same paragraph (e.g., ‘the complaint is uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action’), the demurrer violates CRC 3.1320(a).”]).  The Court therefore construes Plaintiff’s
demurrer as a demurrer to the entire Answer, which means that if any of Uber’s affirmative defenses are adequately
pleaded, the entire demurrer fails.  (See
Warren v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 36; A.
Demurrers, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A, ¶ 7:105.)
Moreover,
although also not raised in Uber’s opposition, Code of Civil Procedure section
458 provides that, “[i]n pleading the Statute of Limitations it is not necessary
to state the facts showing the defense, but it may be stated generally that the
cause of action is barred by the provisions of Section ____ (giving the number
of the section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon) of
the Code of Civil Procedure; and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts showing that the cause of
action is so barred.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 458.)  The Court finds that Uber’s
Answer complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 458.  (Answer, 2:5-15.).  Therefore, Uber has sufficiently pled an
affirmative defense based on the statute of limitations, which defeats
Plaintiff’s demurrer.  (See
Warren, supra, 19 Cal.App.3d at p. 36; A.
Demurrers, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A, ¶ 7:105.)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s
demurrer to Uber’s Answer to the Complaint.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 22nd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 