 Case Number:  22STCV37926    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSHUA JERMAINE
  CLARK,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
JOHN DOE, et al., 
 

                        Defendant(s).
 
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV37926
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
AS COUNSEL
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 22, 2024



 
MOVING
PARTY:            Plaintiff’s counsel,
Jennifer P. Burkes, Esq. of Wilshire Law Firm 
RESPONDING PARTY:    None
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
December 5, 2022, Plaintiff Joshua Jermaine Clark (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants John Doe, EAN Holdings, LLC (“EAN”), and Does 1
through 50, inclusive, asserting one cause of action for negligence. 
The
Complaint alleges the following. On or about May 29, 2022, Plaintiff was riding
an electric scooter at or near the intersection of Sunset Boulevard and Vermont
Avenue in the City and County of Los Angeles. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Defendant John Doe
was driving a vehicle behind Plaintiff and attempting to pass at a high speed
when they struck Plaintiff, causing him to sustain injuries. (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 19,
22.)
On
September 12, 2023, Plaintiff substituted Kevin Kenneth Jones (“Jones”) for the
defendant sued fictitiously as Doe 1, and Frank Delgadillo (“Delgadillo”) for
Doe 2. 
On
October 24, 2023, Delgadillo and Jones filed their Answer. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed EAN without prejudice. 
On
December 13, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, Jennifer
P. Burkes, Esq. of Wilshire Law Firm, filed the instant motion to be
relieved as counsel.  
As
of January 17, 2024, no opposition to the motion has been filed. 
The
next hearings consist of a Final Status Conference on May 20, 2024, a non-jury
trial on June 3, 2024, and an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal on December 2,
2024. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
“The attorney in an action or special
proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final
determination, as follows: ¶ 1. Upon the consent of both client and attorney,
filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; ¶ 2. Upon the order of the
court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one
to the other.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 284.)
Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, an attorney moving to be relieved as counsel must do the following:
(1)  File a notice of motion and motion directed to the client
(made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-051));
(2)  Submit a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); 
(3)  Serve the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and
proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the
case; and 
(4)  Lodge a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the
Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).
“The question of granting or denying an
application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284,
subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court
‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling
of the case.’” (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406
[internal quotations omitted].) The court should also consider whether the
attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the
client’s interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904,
915.)     
III.      DISCUSSION
Jennifer
P. Burkes, Esq. seeks to withdraw as Plaintiff’s counsel of record, stating
that there has been an irreconcilable breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship. 
On
January 10, 2024, counsel filed a Further Declaration in Support of Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel, updating the Court that (1) counsel served the moving
papers on Plaintiff’s last known address on December 17, 2023, but the mail was
returned, (2) on January 5, 2023, the moving papers were mailed to a different address,
and (3) Plaintiff has not been located to allow proper service of the moving
papers. (Further Declaration in Support of Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, ¶¶ 3-6.) 
California
Rules of Professional Conduct state that a lawyer may withdraw from representation
if “the client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyer to carry out the representation effectively ….” (Cal. Rules Prof.
Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)
Here,
counsel has provided valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel has also filed the
required forms. Although counsel has been unable to locate Plaintiff, the forms
allow counsel to serve Plaintiff at his last known address. (See Declaration in
Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel (MC-052), Item 3a(2); Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel (MC-053), Item 6.) Here, counsel
has testified that she served the moving papers on Plaintiff’s last known address.    
Accordingly,
the Court finds it proper to grant the motion.  However, the Court would like to hear from
counsel regarding efforts to locate Plaintiff.
IV.      CONCLUSION
Upon the Court’s satisfaction that Jennifer
P. Burkes, Esq. of Wilshire Law Firm has made sufficient effort to locate
Plaintiff, Ms. Burkes’
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
will be GRANTED. Counsel
will be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff Joshua Jermaine Clark upon filing a proof of service of the signed Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053). 
Moving
party to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
        Dated this 22nd day of January 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 