    BACKGROUND   On August  11, 2022, Plaintiff Nautilus Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint  against Defendant Ley Drew, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 10, inclusive,  alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book account;  (3) account stated; and (4) quantum meruit.     On September  14, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to each cause of action in  the Complaint with leave to amend. (09/14/23 Minute Order.) The Court sustained  the demurrer due to the Court finding that the allegations were not sufficient  to show that the action was filed within the applicable statute of limitations  period. (09/14/23 Minute Order.)     On October  31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against  Defendant alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book  account; (3) account stated; and (4) quantum meruit.    On March  18, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant motion for judgment on the  pleadings to which Plaintiff filed and served an opposition on April 16, 2024.  As of April 23, 2024, no reply brief was filed. Any reply brief was required to  have been filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing. (CCP  § 1005(b).)    Non-jury  trial is scheduled to commence on August 5, 2024.    MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Defendant contends  that the first, second, and third causes of action are barred by the four-year  statute of limitations. Defendant argues that the fourth cause of action is  barred by the two-year statute of limitations.    OPPOSITION               In  opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the FAC sufficiently pleads that the statute  date runs from September 26, 2019, and that all other assertions are not  relevant in this motion.      REPLY               None as of April  23, 2024.     ANALYSIS   I.          Motion  for Judgment on the Pleadings  A.                 Meet and Confer Requirement              Before  filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, a moving party's counsel must  meet and confer, in person, by telephone, or by videoconference with counsel  for the party who filed the pleading subject to the judgment on the pleadings  motion “for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that  resolves the claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (CCP § 439(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet and confer  process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion for  judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a)(4).)              Defendant’s counsel, Marshall C.  Sanders (“Sanders”), provides a declaration in support of the instant motion;  however, counsel’s declaration does not set forth any meet and confer efforts  between the parties.              The Court finds that  the meet and confer requirement has not been met. The Court, however, will  assess the merits of the motion for judgment on the pleadings. The Court reminds  the parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil  Procedure.  B.        Legal Standard  A defendant’s motion for judgment on  the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has expired and an answer has  been filed. (CCP § 438(f)(2).) A motion by a defendant may be made on the  grounds that (1) the court lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or more of  the causes of action alleged or (2) the complaint “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (CCP §  438(c).) A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made after a moving  defendant has already demurred to the complaint. (CCP § 438(g)(1).)   “A motion for judgment on the  pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only  defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be  judicially noticed.” Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th  995, 999. “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a general  demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of  action.” Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.    Like a general demurrer,  “ordinarily, a [motion for judgment on the pleadings] does not lie as to a  portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly  pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior  Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452. In considering a motion for judgment  on the pleadings, courts consider whether properly pled factual  allegations—assumed to be true and liberally construed—are sufficient to  constitute a cause of action. Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal. State  Lottery Com’n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116. A complaint cannot allege  mere legal conclusions and must plead facts. Berger v. California Ins.  Guarantee Assn. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 989, 1006. “[L]eave to amend should  be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state  a good cause of action.” Lowry v. Port San Luis Harbor District (2020) 56  Cal.App.5th 211, 221.  1.         First  Cause of Action for Breach of Contract                   Defendant  contends that the first cause of action in the FAC is barred by the four-year  statute of limitations.                To state a  cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish  “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the  plaintiff.” Oasis West Realty, LLC  v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 337(a), the statute of  limitations for any “action upon any contract, obligation or liability founded  upon an instrument in writing” is four years. (CCP § 337(a).)                “Generally speaking, a cause of  action accrues at the time when the cause of action is complete with all of its  elements.” Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806. “An important exception to the general  rule of accrual is the discovery rule, which postpones accrual of a cause of  action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of  action.” Id. at p. 807.  “A plaintiff has reason to discover a cause of action when he or she has reason  at least to suspect a factual basis for its elements.” Ibid. “[S]uspicion of one or more of the  elements of a cause of action, coupled with knowledge of any remaining  elements, will generally trigger the statute of limitations period.” Ibid. “The discovery rule only delays accrual  until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of  action.” Ibid. “In order  to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action, [a]  plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred  without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show  (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made  earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.” Id. at p. 808. “In assessing the sufficiency of the  allegations of delayed discovery, the court places the burden on the plaintiff  to show diligence; conclusory allegations will not [suffice].” Ibid.                 The FAC alleges the following: on or  about July 1, 2013, a written agreement (the “Agreement”) was made between  Plaintiff and Defendants and each of them. (FAC, ¶ 5; Exh. A.) Plaintiff  provided services and/or goods and/or insurance coverage to Defendants, and  Defendants promised to pay Plaintiff for all services and/or goods and/or  insurance coverage provided. (FAC, ¶ 5; Exh. A.) Plaintiff demanded payment for  a $5,000.00 deductible on or about August 27, 2019, and the payment due date  was September 26, 2019. (FAC, ¶ 6; Exh. B.) On September 26, 2019, Defendants  breached the Agreement by failing to pay for services and/or deductible to  insurance policy which had been provided on credit at their special instance  and request. (FAC, ¶ 6.) Defendants have failed and refused to continue to fail  and refuse to pay all or any part of the remaining balance due. (FAC, ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff alleges that it has performed all obligations to Defendants except for  those obligations Plaintiff was prevented or excused from performing. (FAC, ¶  7.) Plaintiff alleges that it suffered damages. (FAC, ¶ 8.)                The Court notes that the Agreement  has a policy period from July 1, 2013 to July 1, 2014. (FAC, ¶ 5; Exh. A.) The  date of payment is not indicated in the Agreement. (FAC, ¶ 5; Exh. A.) There is  no payment date for any deductible. (FAC, ¶ 5; Exh. A.) The instant action was  filed on August 11, 2022, which is over nine years after the Agreement was  formed and over eight years after the Agreement ended. The Court notes that the  August 27, 2019 demand letter shows that the monies owed concern a loss  occurring on July 1, 2013. (FAC, ¶ 6; Exh. B.) The August 27, 2019 demand  letter clearly states that “[f]ollowing this page is our deductible invoice of  $5,000.00” and that “[Plaintiff] is to be reimbursed by [Defendant] for the  deductible or part of the deductible paid.” (FAC, ¶ 6; Exh. B.)                           Thus, considering the allegations of  the FAC and the accompanying exhibits thereto, the Court finds that the first  cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations. The Court fails to see  why Plaintiff waited until 2019 to seek reimbursement for a payment that  occurred in 2013. Irrespective of such fact, the Court finds that the policy  period expired on July 1, 2014, and that Plaintiff waited over 5 years after  such date to seek payment from Defendant. Plaintiff should have known of  Defendant’s failure to pay the deductible at least by the end of the policy  period given that the loss at issue occurred on July 1, 2013.                As such, the Court finds that the  first cause of action is barred by the four-year statute of limitations. Plaintiff  has not stated sufficient facts to invoke the discovery rule.    2.           Second Cause of Action for Open Book Account and Third Cause of Action for  Account Stated                    “A book account is open where a  balance remains due on the account.” Eloquence Corporation v. Home  Consignment Center (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 655, 664-65. To state a cause of  action for open book account, CACI 372 requires a showing of the following  elements: (1) Plaintiff and Defendant had financial transactions with each  other; (2) Plaintiff, in the regular course of business, kept a written or  electronic account of the debits and credits involved in the transactions; (3)  Defendant owes Plaintiff money on the account; and (4) the amount to money that  Defendant owes Plaintiff. There is a four-year limitations period for causes of  action for open book account. R.N.C. Inc. v. Tsegeletos (1991) 231  Cal.App.3d 967, 972. The statute of limitations period for a cause of  action for open book account “begins as of the last entry in the book account.”  Ibid.                To state a cause of action for  account stated, the following elements must be alleged: (1) previous  transactions between the parties establishing the relationship of debtor and  creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties, express or implied, on the amount  due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor, express or  implied, to pay the amount due. Zinn v. Fred R. Bright Co. (1969) 271  Cal.App.2d 597, 600.                The second cause of action  incorporates the allegations for breach of contract therein. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff  states that within the past four years, Defendants have become indebted to  Plaintiff on an open book account for goods, wares, and merchandise sold and  delivered to Defendants for which Defendants promised to pay Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶  11.) Although Plaintiff made a demand for payment of the outstanding sum of  $5,000.00, Defendants have refused and continue to pay such sum. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff  alleges that it has suffered damages in the amount of $5,000.00, plus 10%  interest per annum from September 26, 2019. (FAC, ¶ 12.)                The third cause of action  incorporates the allegations of the preceding causes of action. (FAC, ¶ 13.)  Pursuant to the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that within four years  past, there was an account stated in writing between Plaintiff and Defendants,  and each of them, in which it was agreed that Defendants were indebted to  Plaintiff for goods, wares, and merchandise sold and delivered to Defendants at  Defendants’ special instance and request in the sum of $5,000.00. (FAC, ¶ 14.) Although  demand for payment of the sum of $5,000.00 has been made upon Defendants, and  each of them, Defendants have failed and refused, and continue to fail and  refuse to pay said sum. (FAC, ¶ 15.) The sum of $5,00.00 now remains due,  together with interest at the rate of ten (10) percent per annum from September  26, 2019, to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 15.)                The Court references its analysis as  to the first cause of action and applies such analysis to the second and third  causes of action in the FAC. The date of loss occurred on July 1, 2013 and the  Agreement’s policy period extended from such date to July 1, 2014. Plaintiff  offers no explanation as to why demand was made almost five years after the  expiration of the policy period. Also, the Court finds that Plaintiff should  have had some suspicion that it was owed monies for the deductible when the  policy period ended. Plaintiff provides no factual explanation in the FAC as to  why it waited over eight years from the expiration of the policy period to file  the instant action.                The Court also notes that Plaintiff  has not provided any legal authority in the opposition brief concerning the sufficiency  of the challenged causes of action. Plaintiff merely states that no obligation  accrued on the date of loss. (Opp’n at p. 3:5-8.)                The Court finds that the second and  third causes of action in the FAC are barred by the applicable statute of  limitations. Plaintiff has not alleged facts to invoke the discovery rule.        3.         Fourth Cause of Action for Quantum  Meruit                   The statute of limitations for a quantum  meruit cause of action is two years. (CCP § 339.)  Quantum meruit refers to the well-established  principle that the law implies a promise to pay for services performed under  circumstances disclosing that they were not gratuitously rendered. To recover  in quantum meruit, a party need not prove the existence of a contract, but it  must show the circumstances were such that the services were rendered under  some understanding or expectation of both parties that compensation therefor  was to be made.” Chodos v. Borman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 76, 96, citations  and quotation marks omitted. “[I]n order to recover under a quantum meruit  theory, a plaintiff must establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to  either an express or implied request for such services from the defendant and  that the services rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant.” Day v. Alta Bates Medical Center (2002) 98  Cal.App.4th 243, 248.               The FAC incorporates the allegations  from the first, second, and third causes of action into the fourth cause of  action for quantum meruit. (FAC, ¶ 16.) The fourth cause of action alleges  that: Defendants, and each of them, have been unjustly enriched by the sum of  $5,000.00 by failing to pay for goods, wares, and merchandise sold and  delivered to Defendants which had been provided on credit since on or about  September 26, 2019. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff has requested that said sums be  reimbursed, however, Defendants, and each of them, have refused and continue to  fail and refuse to reimburse Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 18.)                The Court does not find that the  allegations of the fourth cause of action are sufficient to state a claim for  quantum meruit. Given that the fourth cause of action indicates that Defendants  have failed to make payment since September 26, 2019, the fourth cause of  action is untimely. The instant action was not filed until August 11, 2022,  which is outside of the applicable two-year statute of limitations.                Thus, the fourth cause of action is  barred by the applicable two-year statute of limitations.    II.        Conclusion                           Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Motion for Judgment  on the Pleadings with 30 days leave to amend as to only the first, second, and  third causes of action in the FAC.                           As to the fourth cause of action,  the Court will not allow leave to amend given that the Court does not find that  there exists a reasonable possibility that Plaintiff can state a sufficient  cause of action for quantum meruit.                  Moving party is ordered to give  notice.  