


[1] Pursuant to the Los Angeles County Court Rules (Local
Rules), the opening and opposition briefs for a petition for writ of mandate
“must contain a statement of facts which fairly and comprehensively sets forth
the pertinent facts, whether or not beneficial to that party’s position.” (Local
Rules, Rule 3.231, subd. (i)(2).) The parties did not comply with the applicable
Local Rule. Like the parties, the court provides a more detailed discussion of
the facts in its Analysis section infra. 
 


[2] Hernandez’s investigation report includes a copy of Petitioners’
complaint and CDE’s response as appendices and submitted to the court. (Reply
Helena Decl. ¶¶ 9-10, Exh. E-F.)
 


[3] The court refers to Hernandez’s report herein as
Report.


[4] The petition is not verified. Respondents have not
objected to the petition on that basis.  


[5] Petitioners’ Opening Brief is 25 pages and complies
with the court’s order. However, Petitioners have attached to their Opening Brief,
as Exhibit A, a 10-page table that cites evidence supporting specific
allegations and claims in the petition. Exhibit A is, effectively, 10 pages of
additional legal briefing, not authorized by the court’s order. The court does
not consider Exhibit A as exceeding authorized page limits. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1113, subd. (g).)


[6] The court acknowledges individual students or parents
may have an adequate remedy at law based on their own personal claims of
discrimination or failure to comply with the Education Code.  


[7] Petitioners acknowledge the tenth cause of action is
for a writ of mandate. (Reply 8:18.) They contradict themselves later. (Reply
8:22-23.)


[8] The fifteenth cause of action for declaratory relief
appears to be derivative of both the writ and non-writ causes of action. The
court’s ruling on the writ petition may partly dispose of the fifteenth cause
of action, but the remainder of that cause of action will also be transferred
to Department 1 after resolution of the writ petition.


[9] All undesignated statutory references are to this
code. 


[10] The
fourth cause of action makes similar allegations with respect to
expulsions.  (Id. ¶¶ 174-182.)  


[11] The Report explains the District has carried a
“Significant Disproportionality designation in the area of suspension and
expulsion for Black [students with disabilities] since at least the 2015-16
year.” (Report 128.) Petitioners represent the District reported the
significant disproportionality to CDE in 2018. (Opening Brief 7:7-8.)  


[12] The hearsay within the expert’s report is not admissible
without those case specific facts having been introduced into evidence. (See People
v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665.)


[13] The court notes Petitioners contend a suspension by a
teacher for a day or two pursuant to section 48910 requires the due process procedures
of 48911. (See Opening Brief 6:20-23.) Petitioners cite no support for their
position. Teacher suspensions through section 48910 require the teacher to
contact the student’s parent “[a]s soon as possible” for a “parent-teacher
conference regarding the suspension.” (§ 48910, subd. (a).)
The statute is otherwise silent about procedure. While it is not entirely clear, some of B.Y’s discussion relates to the
SSC. (B.Y. Decl. ¶
7.) For V.X., much of the discussion is about SSC. (T.X. Decl. ¶
4.)


[14] In reply, Petitioners also submit
additional opinion evidence from Hernandez regarding SSCs.  (Reply 4 [citing Rebuttal Hernandez Decl. ¶ 8].) “The salutary rule is that points raised in
a reply brief for the first time will not be considered unless good cause is
shown for the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) Given the length and level of detail in the Report,
Petitioners arguably do not have good cause to cite new evidence from the
Report for the first time in reply or submit additional opinion evidence in
reply. The court nonetheless has
considered this evidence as rebuttal to Williams’ declaration.  


[15] As noted, the Discipline Matrix is, to some extent, inconsistent
with section 48900.


[16] H.N. asserts J.N. was bullied and defended herself in
the fight. J.N. has not submitted a declaration explaining what occurred, and
Petitioners do not submit any evidence corroborating H.N.’s declaration. In
opposition, Respondents suggest H.N. testified at deposition that J.N. started
the fight. (See Opposition 33 [citing Exh. 4].) However, at the cited pages,
H.N. testified that J.N. was bullied, not that J.N. started the fight. The
exact circumstances of the fight and J.N.’s expulsion are not fully explained
by the record.  


[17] While the court agrees with Petitioners that the District’s
written policy conflicts with the Education Code, the court is not persuaded
that any inference need be made that this policy, in itself, caused Black
students or students with disabilities to suffer disproportionate amounts of
disciplinary transfers. Further, assuming the disproportionality exists, Petitioners
do not prove, with the exception of this written policy, Respondents have any systemic
policies or practices to violate the Education Code’s rules governing voluntary
and involuntary transfers. Notably, Petitioners do not assert the District’s Administrative
Regulation 6184, submitted by Williams, fails to comply with the Education
Code. The court cannot by mandate compel the
District to exercise its discretion in any specific way to address
disproportionality in disciplinary transfers. 



[18] Accordingly, section 56040.1 provides: 
 
In
accordance with Section 1412(a)(5) of Title 20 of the United
States Code and Section 300.114 of Title 34 of
the Code of Federal Regulations, each public agency shall ensure
the following to address the least restrictive environment for individuals with
exceptional needs: (a) To the maximum extent appropriate, individuals with
exceptional needs, including children in public or private institutions or
other care facilities, are educated with children who are nondisabled. (b)
Special classes, separate schooling, or other removal of individuals with
exceptional needs from the regular educational environment occurs only if the
nature or severity of the disability is such that education in the regular
classes with the use of supplementary aids and services cannot be achieved
satisfactorily.
 


[19] As Petitioners point out, Hernandez also found interviews
with parents “did not reveal any indications parents are informed of their
right to bring professionals or representatives to the MDR,” nor that “parents
are informed of their right to due process” when they disagree with the
findings. (Report at 287.) To the extent Petitioners rely on parents’ interview
statements for their truth, this evidence has been excluded as inadmissible
hearsay.
 


[20] While conclusory, Williams’ declaration on this point
is consistent with a finding that Petitioners have not proven an illegal
practice or policy that could be enjoined by mandate.  (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 28-29.)  

