  Case Number:  23STCP01869    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  86 CANCEL THE CONTRACT-ANTELOPE VALLEY v. ANTELOPE
VALLEY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Case Number: 23STCP01869
Hearing Date: March
15, 2024 
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
 

Petitioners, Cancel the Contract-Antelope Valley,
B.Y., C.Y., V.X., T.X., H.N., J.N., K.D., and A.D., seek a writ of ordinary
mandate directing Respondents, Antelope Valley Union High School District (the District);
Greg Nehen, in his official capacity as Superintendent; and Charles Hughes,
Jill McGrady, Donita Winn, Carla Corona, and Miguel Sanchez IV, in their
official capacities as members of the Board of Trustees (collectively, Respondents)
to, among other things: (1) modify, alter, or eliminate District policies,
procedures, and practices that result in the disproportionate suspension,
expulsion, and transfer of Black students and students with disabilities; (2)
end the suspension, expulsion, and transfer of such students without following
mandatory due process and procedural protections; (3) end the
disproportionate use of restraints against and placement in segregated school
settings of Black students with disabilities; (4) end the use of a Discipline
Matrix that “is outdated and contributes to racially disparate discipline”; and
(5) “end the use of what should be voluntary transfers as an instrument of
exclusionary discipline.” (See Opening Brief 1-2 and 24-25; Proposed
Order.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
 
The court rules as
follows on Respondents’ amended written objections to Petitioners’ evidence:
 
Declaration of
Kerry Agomo: Objections 6, 7 and 10 only are sustained.
 
Declaration of
Jaime E. Hernandez, Exhibit B and Appendices 1-7, 9-11: The objections are
overruled except as to reported statements from families and parents included
in the report. Respondents’ generalized hearsay objections are overbroad. The entire
investigation report and its appendices are not hearsay.
 
In their Opposition,
Respondents also object on hearsay grounds to Petitioners’ reliance on “Dr.
Hernandez’s survey of Antelope Valley families during the 2022-2023 school
year” and statements from the surveyed parents. (Opposition 27:18-24 [citing Opening
Brief 9:3-17].) The objection is sustained in part, as discussed herein.  
 
Declaration of
Chelsea Helena: All objections are overruled.
 
Declaration of H.N: All objections are overruled.
(See Fibreboard Paper Products Corp. v. East Bay Union of Machinists, Local
1304, United Steelworkers (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 675, 712.)
Declaration of A.D: All objections are overruled.
(See Fibreboard Paper Products Corp. v. East Bay Union of Machinists, Local
1304, United Steelworkers, supra, 227 Cal.App.2d at 712.)
Declaration of B.Y:
Objections 48 and 29 are overruled; Objection 50 is sustained.
 
Declaration of C.Y:
Objections 53, 54, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61 are sustained. The remaining
objections are overruled.
 
Declaration of K.D:
The objection is overruled.
 
Declaration of O.W:
The objections are sustained.
 
Declaration of V.X:
Objections 67, 68 and 69 are sustained. The remaining objections are overruled.
 
BACKGROUND[1]
 
The District 
 
The District is located 70 miles northeast of the City of Los Angeles
and serves the cities of Palmdale, Lancaster and surrounding areas. During the
2021-2022 school year, the District had a student population of approximately
22,000 with a racial makeup of 66.7 percent Hispanic, 16.2 percent Black, 9.8
percent White, 4.4 percent two or more races, and 2.9 percent other races. Students
with disabilities make up 17.3 percent of the student population.  (Hernandez Decl. Exh. B at 3.)  
 
Respondents’ Legal Duty to Ensure Equal Education 
 
Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 provides: “No person in the United States shall, on
the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation
in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program
or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” (42 U.S.C. § 2000d; see
also 20 U.S.C § 1703.) Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act and
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 protect people with disabilities
against being excluded from participation, discriminated against, denied the
benefits of the services, programs, or activities of a public entity, or being
subjected to discrimination by any such entity, because of their disability. (42
U.S.C. § 12132; 29 U.S.C. § 794; 28 C.F.R. § 35.130.)
 
In California, “the
Legislature has enacted a scheme of interrelated statutes, which attempt to
protect public school students from discrimination and harassment engendered by
race, gender, sexual orientation or disability. (See Gov. Code, § 11135; Ed. Code, §§ 201, 220, 32261, 32280, 32281 & 32282.)” (Hector F. v. El Centro Elementary School
District (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 331, 337.) For example, Government Code
section 11135, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
No person in the State of California shall, on
the basis of sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national
origin, ethnic group identification, age, mental disability, physical
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, or
sexual orientation, be unlawfully denied full and equal access to the benefits
of, or be unlawfully subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity
that is conducted, operated, or administered by the state or by any state
agency, is funded directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance
from the state.  
 
Relevant Proceedings before the California Department of Education 
 
On March 28, 2022,
Petitioners filed their Various Compliance Complaint and Request for Direct
State Intervention to Investigate Disability Discrimination against Antelope
Valley Union High School District with the California Department of Education (CDE).
(Reply Helena Decl. ¶¶ 9-10, Exh. E-F.)[2] In their compliance complaint, Petitioners
alleged “the District’s policies, practices, and procedures regarding
discipline, policing, and segregation of students with disabilities violate the
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (‘IDEA’), California Education Code
Section 56000 et seq., California Education Code Sections 200 and 220,
California Government Code Section 11135, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act
(‘Section 504’), and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (‘Title
II’). The Complaint asks CDE to order the District to make systemic changes
that end racial disparities and transform its special education system into one
that honors its students’ humanity and potential.” (Reply Helena Decl. Exh.
E.)  
 
On June 24, 2022,
after an investigation that included an onsite visit, CDE declined to issue
corrective action in response to Petitioners’ compliance complaint. (Reply
Helena Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. F.) The CDE issued various findings of fact and
conclusions in its response letter. (Reply Helena Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. F.) The CDE denied
Petitioners’ request for reconsideration. (Reply Helena Decl. ¶¶ 11-12, Exh.
G-H.)  
 
On November 28,
2022, Petitioners filed a second various compliance complaint with CDE seeking
state intervention to investigate disability discrimination against the
District. (Reply Helena Decl. ¶¶ 13-14, Exh. I, J.) On January 25, 2023, CDE
notified Petitioners that it declined to issue corrective action; CDE explained
Petitioners did not submit evidence supporting their allegations. (Reply Helena
Decl. Exh. J.)  
 
Investigation and Report of Dr. Jaime E. Hernandez 
 
In support of their
claims before the court, Petitioners submit the expert report of Dr. Jaime E.
Hernandez dated May 2023 entitled “Investigation into Various Compliance
Complaints Against the Antelope Valley Union High School District.” (Hernandez
Decl. ¶¶ 6-7, Exh. B and C.) As noted, Respondents have objected to the entire
report on hearsay grounds, but not any specific statements therein. The entire
expert report is not hearsay. Accordingly, the court overrules Respondents’ overbroad
general objection to the report. (See Fibreboard
Paper Products Corp. v. East Bay Union of Machinists, Local 1304, United
Steelworkers (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 675, 712.)
Respondents have not challenged Hernandez’s expert qualifications, as demonstrated
through his curriculum vitae. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) The court finds Hernandez
is a qualified expert for the matters and opinions stated in his report.[3] 
 
Writ Proceedings 
 
On May 30, 2023, Petitioners filed their petition for writ of mandate
and complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief.[4] On
September 20, 2023, Respondents answered the petition.  
 
On November 9, 2023, the court granted the parties’ application for
leave to file extended page trial briefs. Specifically, the court authorized
Petitioners to file a 25-page opening brief, Respondents to file a 25-page
opposition, and Petitioners to file a 25-page reply.[5]
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
There are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary
writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear,
present, and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear,
present, and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance
of that duty. (California Ass’n for
Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency's
performance or to correct an agency's abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.” (AIDS Healthcare
Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 693, 700.) “Mandamus does not lie to compel a public agency to exercise
discretionary powers in a particular manner, only to compel it to exercise
its discretion in some manner.” (Ibid.) 

 
However, mandamus “will lie to correct abuses of discretion. In determining
whether a public agency has abused its discretion, the court may not substitute
its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable minds may disagree as to
the wisdom of the agency’s action, its determination must be upheld. A court
must ask whether the public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, or
entirely lacking in evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow
the procedure and give the notices the law requires.” (County of Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
643, 654.) “To compel the [respondent] to take some action the
[petitioner] must plead and prove the [respondent] has failed to act, and its
failure to act is arbitrary, beyond the bounds of reason, or in derogation of
the applicable legal standards.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public
Health,
supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 704.) 

 
An agency is presumed to have regularly
performed its official duties. (Evid. Code, § 664.) A petitioner “bears the burden of proof in
a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.” (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.) A reviewing court
“will not act as counsel for either party to [a challenge to an agency’s action]
and will not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the
record for any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742 [in context of appeal]; see also Inyo
Citizens for Better Planning v. Inyo County Board of Supervisors (2009) 180
Cal.App.4th 1, 14. [“We are not required to search the record to ascertain whether
it contains support for [the parties’] contentions.”])  
 
“ ‘On
questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s]
independent judgment.’ . . . Interpretation of a statute or regulation is
a question of law subject to independent review.” (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  
 
ANALYSIS 

 
Threshold Procedural Issues 
 
Respondents contend Petitioners have not proven
their standing proceed by way of a writ petition; Petitioners have an adequate
remedy at law; Petitioners have not exhausted their administrative remedies;
and certain claims made are not ripe for decision. Respondents also contend Petitioners
forfeited certain causes of action by failing to address them in their Opening
Brief. Finally, Respondents contend the District’s Superintendent and board
members are not proper respondents. The court addresses these threshold issues
first.  
 
Standing 
 
To
have standing to seek a writ of mandate, a party must be “beneficially
interested.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1086.) “A petitioner is beneficially
interested if he or she has some special interest to be served or some
particular right to be preserved or protected over and above the interest held
in common with the public at large.” (Rialto
Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of Rialto (2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th
899, 913; accord Carsten v. Psychology Examining Com. (1980) 27 Cal.3d
793, 796-797.) “This standard . . . is equivalent to the federal ‘injury in
fact’ test, which requires a party to prove by a preponderance of the evidence
that it has suffered ‘an invasion of a legally protected interest that is ‘(a)
concrete and particularized, and (b) actual or imminent, not conjectural or
hypothetical.’ ’ ” (Associated Builders and Contractors, Inc. v. San
Francisco (1999) 21 Cal.4th 352, 361-362.) “One who is in fact adversely
affected by governmental action should have standing to challenge that action
if it is judicially reviewable.”  (Save
the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Manhattan Beach (2011) 52 Cal.4th 155,
165.)  
 
“A petitioner
who is not beneficially interested in a writ may nevertheless have ‘citizen
standing’ or ‘public interest standing’ to bring the writ petition under the
‘public interest exception’ to the beneficial interest requirement. The public
interest exception ‘applies where the question is one of public right and the
object of the action is to enforce a public duty—in which case it is sufficient
that the plaintiff be interested as a citizen in having the laws executed and
the public duty enforced.’ ” (Rialto
Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of Rialto, supra, 208 Cal.
App. 4th at 913-914.) In a citizen standing analysis, “[t]he courts balance the
applicant’s need for relief (i.e., his beneficial interest) against the public
need for enforcement of the official duty. When the duty is sharp and the
public need weighty, the courts will grant a mandamus at the behest of an
applicant who shows no greater personal interest than that of a citizen who
wants the law enforced.” (Citizens for
Amending Proposition L v. City of Pomona (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1159, 1174.)

 
The court concludes
Petitioners, including Cancel the Contract Antelope Valley (CTC), have
submitted sufficient evidence to support public interest standing for their
writ causes of action.  (See generally Declarations of B.Y., C.Y., O.W., L.W., T.X., H.N.,
A.D., K.D., and Waunette Cullors.) The court finds there
is a sharp duty and weighty public need for enforcement of the
antidiscrimination laws and Education Code provisions at issue. (See
e.g. Hector F. v. El Centro Elementary School District,
supra, 227 Cal. App. 4th at 341 [“there is a manifest public interest in
enforcing the antidiscrimination and antiharassment statutes Hector asserts.”])
 
Moreover, as former students, current students,
or parents of former, current, or future students of the District, some of the
individual petitioners have a beneficial interest in the requested writs. (See
e.g. B.Y. Decl. ¶ 10; T.X. Decl. generally and ¶¶ 1-2, 10; Collins v.
Thurmond (2019) 41 Cal. App. 5th 879, 917-918.)  
 
Accordingly, the court finds Petitioners have
standing to pursue their writ causes of action. 

 
///
Adequate Remedy at Law 
 
Mandamus relief is available only when “there is not a
plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of the law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1086.) “Although the statute does not expressly forbid the
issuance of the writ if another adequate remedy exists, it has long been
established as a general rule that the writ will not be issued if another such
remedy was available to the petitioner. [Citations.]” (Phelan v. Superior
Court (1950) 35 Cal.2d 363, 366.) “The burden, of course, is on the
petitioner to show that he did not have such a remedy.” (Ibid.)
 
Based on the parties’ briefing, the court concludes Petitioners
do not have an adequate remedy at law with respect to alleged unlawful policies
or practices of the District. As argued by Petitioners and as shown by their proposed
order, “Petitioners seek systemic changes to [the District’s] discipline
policies and practices.” (Reply 11:8-9.) “Where, as here, not money but the
performance of public acts by public officials is the issue, mandate will lie.”
(California Teacher Ass’n v. Nielsen (1978) 87 Cal. App. 3d 25, 29.)[6]
 
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies and
Ripeness 
 
Exhaustion
of administrative remedies is “a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial
review.” (California Water Impact
Network v. Newhall County Water Dist. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.) “The exhaustion requirement
applies whether relief is sought by traditional (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1085) or administrative (Code Civ. Proc., §
1094.5) mandamus.” (Eight Unnamed Physicians v.
Medical Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503, 511.) “Before seeking
judicial review a party must show that he has made a full presentation to the
administrative agency upon all issues of the case and at all prescribed stages of the administrative proceedings.”  (Edgren
v. Regents of University of California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515, 520.) There
are exceptions to the exhaustion requirement, including “when the subject of
the controversy lies outside the administrative agency's jurisdiction, when
pursuit of an administrative remedy would result in irreparable harm, when the
administrative agency cannot grant an adequate remedy, and when the aggrieved
party can positively state what the administrative agency's decision in his
particular case would be.” (Ibid.)
 
Relatedly, “‘[a]
decision attains the requisite administrative finality when the agency has
exhausted its jurisdiction and possesses ‘no further power to reconsider or
rehear the claim.’
. . . .
Until a public agency makes a ‘final’ decision, the matter is not ripe for
judicial review.”  (California Water Impact Network v. Newhall County
Water Dist., supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at 1485.) 
 
Respondents
do not demonstrate Petitioners have any further administrative remedy to
exhaust as to alleged unlawful policies
or practices of District. As discussed, Petitioners filed two compliance
complaints and a request for reconsideration with CDE prior to initiating this
proceeding. (Rebuttal Helena Decl. Exh. E-J; Hernandez Decl. Exh. C.) Respondents
have not identified any further administrative remedy for Petitioners must exhaust.
 
Respondents suggest any
petitioners with special needs may have various legal or administrative
remedies, and their claims may not be ripe. The court agrees with Respondents
that individual students or former students may have adequate administrative or
legal remedies for their individual claims of discrimination or statutory
violations. Petitioners have not argued or shown to the contrary. Further,
Petitioners acknowledge “[t]he remedies Petitioners seek are entirely systemic”
(Reply 13:16), and “Petitioners do not seek to enforce individual or class
rights arising from discrete” claims of individual students or former
students.  (Reply 13:16-17.)  
 
Based on the
foregoing, Petitioners’ claims alleging systematic practices and policies of the
District are ripe. Respondents have not identified any further administrative
remedies for Petitioners to exhaust.  
 
Forfeiture
of Sixth, Eighth, and Tenth Causes of Action for Writ of Mandate and Stay of
Non-Writ Causes of Action (First, Second, Eleventh through Fourteenth)
 
In
the Opening Brief and Reply, Petitioners have not presented any legal argument
in support of their sixth, eighth, and tenth causes of action for writ of
mandate. Accordingly, Petitioners have forfeited those causes of action. (Nelson
v. Avondale Homeowners Assn. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863. [“When an appellant
fails to raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned
argument and citations to authority, we treat the point as waived.”]; Pfeifer
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1282 [same].)
 
In
reply, Petitioners contend the tenth cause of action is not for a writ of
mandate and is not properly assigned to this writs and receivers department (Department
86). (Reply 8:18-9:1.)  Petitioners are
incorrect.[7] The
tenth cause of action is for writ of mandate pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085 and alleges the District has a ministerial duty to
maintain Uniform Complaint Procedures. (Pet. ¶¶ 225-231.) That cause of action
is properly before this department 86 and should have been addressed in Petitioners’
Opening Brief. (See Local Rules, Rule 2.8, subd. (d) and 2.9.) Accordingly, the
tenth cause of action is forfeited, and Petitioners are entitled to no relief
based upon it.
 
Petitioners
admit the sixth and eight causes of action for a writ of mandate (alleging
unlawful student searches and violation of rights of limited English proficient
families) “are not in Petitioners’ Trial Brief.” Petitioners contend “the
underlying allegations are incorporated in and relevant to Petitioners’
non-writ claims” and “should be preserved” for purposes of discovery and to
prove the non-writ claims. (Reply 8:26-27.) To the extent the allegations are
incorporated in the non-writ causes of action, they will be preserved for
adjudication with the non-writ causes of action. However, because Petitioners
did not address the sixth or eighth causes of action in their Opening Brief,
those causes of action for a writ of mandate are forfeited, and Petitioners are
entitled to no writ relief through them.
 
The
first, second, and eleventh through fourteenth causes of action are non-writ
causes of action and are not properly assigned to Department 86. (See Local
Rules, Rule 2.8, subd. (d) and 2.9.) After the court rules on the writ causes
of action, the first, second, and eleventh through fourteenth causes of action
will be transferred to Department 1 for assignment to a general civil
department.[8]  
 
              Individual Respondents 
 
As noted, Petitioners challenge
systemwide practices of District. 
Accordingly, the Individual Respondents have been properly joined in
their official capacities as Superintendent and as members of the School
Board.  (See e.g. Manjares v. Newton (1966) 64 Cal. 2d 365, 378 [affirming issuance of writ requiring named
school board members to resume school bus service to students’ homes].)  
 
Third Cause of Action – Alleged Violations of
Education and Government Code Procedures Governing Suspensions 
 
Petitioners’ third cause of action alleges Respondents
“are failing to provide due process protections enshrined in the Education Code[9]
with respect to suspensions” and that “[a]s a result of Defendants’ failure to
comply with their duties, Black students and students with disabilities have
been disproportionately denied critical procedural safeguards and equal
educational opportunity.” (Pet. ¶¶ 167-170.)[10] 
 
Under California law, schools are
authorized to suspend students, or recommend them for expulsion, for a limited
set of enumerated offenses, including willful use of force or violence on
another person, possession of a firearm or other weapon, possession of a
controlled substance or alcohol, and other serious acts. (See § 48900.) “Suspension,
including supervised suspension as described in Section 48911.1, shall be
imposed only when other means of correction fail to bring about proper conduct.
. . . However, a pupil, including an individual with exceptional needs, . . . may
be suspended, . . . for any of the reasons enumerated in Section 48900 upon a first
offense, if the principal or superintendent of schools determines that the
pupil violated subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of Section 48900 or
that the pupil's presence causes a danger to persons.” (§ 48900.5.)
 
Section 48900.5 specifies other means of
correction include but are not limited to:
 
(1) A conference between school personnel, the pupil's parent or
guardian, and the pupil. 
 
(2) Referrals to the school counselor, psychologist, social worker,
child welfare attendance personnel, or other school support service personnel
for case management and counseling. 
 
(3) Study teams, guidance teams, resource panel teams, or other
intervention-related teams that assess the behavior, and develop and implement
individualized plans to address the behavior in partnership with the pupil and
the pupil's parents. 
 
(4) Referral for a comprehensive psychosocial or psychoeducational
assessment, including for purposes of creating an individualized education
program, or a plan adopted pursuant to Section 504 of the federal
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 794(a)). 
 
(5) Enrollment in a program for teaching prosocial behavior or
anger management. 
 
(6) Participation in a restorative justice program. 
 
(7) A positive behavior support approach with tiered interventions
that occur during the schoolday on campus. 
 
(8) After school programs that address specific behavioral issues
or expose pupils to positive activities and behaviors, including, but not
limited to, those operated in collaboration with local parent and community
groups. 
 
(9) Any of the alternatives described in Section 48900.6.  
 
Additionally, “[a]teacher may suspend any pupil from class,
for any of the acts enumerated in Section 48900, for the day of
the suspension and the day following. The teacher shall immediately report the
suspension to the principal of the school and send the pupil to the principal
or the designee of the principal for appropriate action. . . .
The pupil shall not be returned to the class from which he or she was
suspended, during the period of the suspension, without the concurrence of the
teacher of the class and the principal.” (§ 48910, subd. (a).)
 
Because suspension is a severe consequence for student behavior and
interferes with students’ right to a free education, the Education Code also
requires school districts to follow a series of procedural protections before
imposing suspension. (See generally Slayton v. Pomona Unified School Dist.
(1984) 161 Cal. App. 3d 538, 550.)
 
              The
Discipline Matrix
 
Petitioners contend the District has
violated its mandatory duties by authorizing suspension and expulsion for
behaviors not enumerated in the Education Code, as evidenced by a “Discipline
Matrix” allegedly used by school staff. (Pet. ¶¶ 4, 8, 42, 178.) Petitioners
refer to a document entitled “Antelope Valley Union High School District
Behavior Consequences AVUHSD Exhibit 5144.1” dated March 21, 2014 as the Discipline
Matrix. (Helena Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  
 
Petitioners argue “[t]he Discipline
Matrix provides no guidance about how to exercise discretion in decisions about
discipline, including how to avoid bias, and it directly violates California
law restricting suspensions and expulsions to limited and enumerated circumstances.”
(Opening Brief 7:3-6 [citing Report] at 136-137.) Petitioners also cite
evidence that the District reported significant disproportionality in the
discipline of Black students with disabilities to the CDE. (See Report at
128-129.)[11] 
 
As a result of the significant disproportionality,
CDE required the District to submit yearly Comprehensive Coordinated Early
Intervening Services Plans (CCEIS plans) to remedy the issue. (See Report at
128-129.) In its 2020 CCEIS Plan, the District acknowledged that “we continue
to suspend African American students at a disproportionate rate” and continued,
“[w]e identified that our current discipline policy [the Discipline Matrix]
contributes to . . . inequitable campus discipline policies and practices. The
current policy is outdated (revised in 2014) and subjectively inconsistent in
its implementation from school to school.” (Helena Dec. Exh. B at 11.) In its
2021 CCEIS Plan, the District reported the policy, “which was [last] revised in
2014, is outdated and lacks specificity, therefore, discipline practices vary
greatly from school to school.” (Helena Decl. Exh. C at 12-13.)
 
In a responsive declaration, the District’s
Deputy Superintendent, Shandelyn Williams, declares: “[T]he matrix was appended
to the Board Policy in 2014. The matrix, however, has not been used in [the
District] since 2018. This change of policy and procedure was communicated to
all school sites during Annual Trainings and Principal Meetings.” (Williams
Decl. ¶ 7.) Williams does not submit any written training materials or similar
documentation in support of her position. Further, in reply, Petitioners cite
evidence that the Discipline Matrix is currently posted on the District’s Board
Policy website and attached to each [District] campus’s school site safety
plans, which were approved by the District’s Board of Trustees. (Rebuttal
Helena Decl. ¶¶ 2-6, Exhs. A, B, C.) Hernandez also attests the District
provided the matrix to him in response to his request for the District’s
discipline policy. (Rebuttal Hernandez Decl. ¶ 5.) Considering the conclusory
nature of Williams’ declaration, the lack of written corroboration, and the
rebuttal evidence, the court finds the District has not formally rescinded its
Discipline Matrix.
 
As a secondary defense, Respondents
also contend the “the matrix complies with Section 48900” (Opposition 25:7) and
the last column of it “shows that an administrator cannot give more punishment
than anticipated by Section 48900, but that the administrator could use his or
her discretion to lessen the punishment based on the circumstances of the
incident.” (Opposition 25:15-17.) 
 
Petitioners, however, are correct. The
Discipline Matrix is not consistent with section 48900. For example, offenses 25
through 29 are not offenses listed in section 48900. The infractions listed in
offenses 25 through 29 suggest suspension or a recommendation for expulsion
might be appropriate. Section 48900 does not authorize suspension. Further, as
argued by Petitioner, minor infractions such as “disrespect” or a “violation of
the District Dress Policy” is subject to suspension or a recommendation for
expulsion. Further, the Discipline Matrix does not guide staff to first attempt
other means of correcting the behavior, as required by section 48911.1.  
 
Williams also declares “the District
has a practice of Positive Behavioral Interventions and Support (‘PBIS’)
framework, which seeks to explicitly teach students appropriate behaviors in a
multi-tiered system of supports framework that includes working with parents
and students to maximize student success.” (Williams Decl. ¶ 10.) “As such,
administrators can use their discretion, based on the specifics of the
underlying incident, to determine punishment for a particular student.
Therefore, when the matrix was used, it actually inured to students’ benefit.” (Williams
Decl. ¶ 11.)  
 
As relevant to the Discipline Matrix
and third and fourth causes of action, these largely conclusory statements in
the Williams declaration are not persuasive. The District admitted in its 2020
and 2021 CCEIS Plans that the Discipline Matrix “contributes to . . .
inequitable campus discipline policies and practices” and the significant
disproportionality in the suspension and expulsion of Black students with
disabilities. (Helena Dec. Exh. B at 11 and Exh. C.) Further, the District’s
response does not address how it can suspend students for infractions no
enumerated in section 48900.
 
Due Process Procedures 
 
Petitioners contend the District “has
failed to follow mandatory procedures for suspension by failing to provide
written notice and an opportunity for a pre-suspension conference at the time
of the suspension (Cal. Educ. Code § 48911); failing to notify students and
parents/guardians of the reasons for the suspension and the evidence against
the student (id.); failing to attempt other means of correction before
imposing suspensions (id. § 48900.5); and allowing teachers to send
students out of the classroom to various forms of in-school suspension,
sometimes for days at a time, without following these mandatory procedures (id.
§§ 48910, 48911.1).” (Opening Brief 8:11-17; see Pet. ¶ 169.)
 
Petitioners rely on the declarations
of L.W., O.W., B.Y., C.Y., V.X., and H.N., as well as Hernandez’s “survey of
Antelope Valley families during the 2022-2023 school year” to support their
claims. (Opening Brief 9:3.)  
 
The out-of-court statements of parents included
in the Report are inadmissible hearsay, and Petitioners have not identified any
exception that would allow such statements to be considered by this court for
their truth.[12] (See
Reply 15-16.) As summarized in the Opening Brief, Petitioners rely on the survey results
and parents’ statements for their truth, i.e., to prove “a
systemic pattern by [the District] of suspending students and adding documents
to their files without informing their parents.” (Opening Brief 9:15-17.) The court sustains Respondents’
hearsay objection and does not consider the survey results and parents’
statements for that purpose. (See People v.
Veamatahau (2020) 9 Cal.5th 16, 26 [“an expert may not
relate inadmissible ‘case-specific facts about which the expert has no
independent knowledge’ ”].)
 
Thus, to prove the District systematically fails to
follow mandatory due process procedures for suspensions Petitioners rely
predominately on the declarations of former students and/or their parents
(students L.W., B.Y., and parents O.W., C.Y., and H.N.) and a current student
and his parent (V.X. and T.X.). The court has reviewed the evidence. These
declarations provide some evidence that, in certain instances, the District may
have failed to follow the suspension procedures set forth in sections 48911,
48900.5, 48911.1 and 48910. As an example, former student L.W. attests he was
suspended “after some kids started fighting and bullying me, and I defended
myself.” (L.W. Decl. ¶ 5.) L.W. declares “the school did not let me tell my
side of the story and didn’t give me or my mom any paperwork about the
suspension.” (L.W. Decl. ¶ 5.)  Although
L.W. does not specify the length of the suspension, L.W.’s declaration suggests
that L.W. was not given the pre-suspension procedures required by section 48911,
subdivision (b).  Respondents develop no
argument to the contrary. (See Opposition 26-27.)  
 
B.Y., C.Y., V.X., and T.X. provide some evidence that B.Y.
and V.X. were subject to “in-school suspensions” or were sent to the Student
Support Center (SSC) without written documentation to the students or parents.[13]
(See C.Y. Decl. ¶ 6; B.Y. Decl. ¶ 6; T.X. Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
In response to the evidence, Williams, the Deputy
Superintendent, declares: 
 
The Student Support Centers are used proactively to
address need[s] of students from a whole child approach which includes
academics, social emotional and behavior. They are designed to be a hub of
resources to support the needs of students and their families. . . . Contrary
to the allegations in the Trial Brief, SSCs are not detention or discipline
centers. They are a place of refuge for students who need additional support.
It is true that some students who are having disciplinary issues are sent to an
SSC. However, students who are having emotional issues, or creating minor
disruptions in class, may also be sent to the SSC. . . . For the students who
are having disciplinary issues, the purpose is not to create a secret detention
system to hide the District’s discipline numbers. As indicated, the District’s
policy is to focus on ways to correct behavior without having to implement full
discipline. Students who are sent to an SSC that are having such problems are
sent to obtain support and respite from their challenging environment. . . .
Indeed, the SSC contains general education teachers, special education teachers
and aides, nurses, social workers and counselors on any given campus. . . . In
addition, students are sent to SSCs as other means of correction to receive
mentorship and support from a certificated teacher. . . . It is true that the
District does not count SSC referral as discipline, because it is not. However,
referral to SSC is documented in each student’s pupil file. . . . While at the
SSC, students are to complete their work. In fact, teachers send a referred
student’s classwork to the SSC for completion by that student.  (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 12-18.)
 
While somewhat conclusory, Williams’
declaration provides evidence the SSCs “are not detention or discipline
centers” and that referrals to the SSCs are not necessarily suspensions that
require due process procedures. Petitioners’ cited evidence does not provide a
sufficient reason for the court to disbelieve Williams on this point. Hernandez
opines referrals to the SSCs are often a “punitive measure,” but he also
acknowledges a “lack of reliable data” and that SSCs are “designated spaces on
a campus with various supports for students” and that are managed by a
credentialed teacher. (Report at 190-191.) Although Petitioners cite evidence
that “Black students with and without disabilities are overrepresented” in
referrals to SSCs, that evidence does not prove the cause of the
overrepresentation, that the referrals are suspensions, or that the District
has a policy or practice of suspending students without complying with due
process procedures. (Opening Brief 10:13-11:7 [citing Report 191-198].)
 
In reply, Petitioners highlight
evidence from the Report that “only 32% of referrals to SSCs and OCD [on-campus
detention] rooms were non-disciplinary.” (Reply 4:2-3 [citing Report at 170].)[14] Petitioners cite a section of the Report entitled
“Review of Quantitative In-School Suspension Data for the 2021-22 School Year.”
Petitioners’ brief discussion of this detailed evidence, including in reply, is
not particularly persuasive or helpful to the court. While it is true the
Report found 2,195 of the 6,876 referrals to SSC (31.9 percent) were
“non-disciplinary,” that does not, in itself, prove the other referrals to the
SSC failed to comply with the law.   
 
The court also notes Petitioners
contend a suspension by a teacher for a day or two pursuant to section 48910
requires the due process procedures of 48911. (See Opening Brief 6:20-23.)
Petitioners cite no support for their position. Teacher suspensions through
section 48910 requires the teacher to contact the student’s parent “[a]s soon
as possible” for a “parent-teacher conference regarding the suspension.” (§
48910, subd. (a).) The statute is otherwise silent about procedure.
 
Based on the court’s review of the record, the
court is unable to find Respondents have a systematic practice or
policy—which could be enjoined by mandate—of failing to follow mandatory due
process procedures for suspensions. The declarations of L.W., O.W., B.Y., C.Y., V.X., and H.N. provide a small
sample size; the exact circumstances of those alleged suspensions are not fully
explained by the record; and whether and to what extent, if at all, procedures
were not followed. Further, the particular impacted students or former students
have adequate remedies at law to address any past instances of discrimination
or equal protection violations. The cited evidence from the Report is either
hearsay (see Opening Brief 9:3-17) or has not been shown by Petitioners’
briefing to support a finding of a systematic practice or policy of
failing to follow due process procedures with respect to suspensions, including
referrals to SSCs.
 
Disparate Impact of Suspension Practices on Black
Students and Students with Disabilities 
 
Petitioners contend the District’s
suspension practices have a disparate impact on Black students and students
with disabilities. (Opening Brief 9:21-11:7.) As an illustration, Hernandez reports
“Black students represent 17.0% of the District’s enrollment yet comprise 44.0%
of all suspensions”; that students with disabilities are more than twice as
likely to be suspended as their nondisabled peers; and that Black students with
disabilities make up 52.8% of all special education students suspended. (Report
138-139.)  
 
In addition to evidence from the
Report, the District admitted in its 2020 and 2021 CCEIS Plans that the
Discipline Matrix “contributes to . . . inequitable campus discipline policies
and practices” and the significant disproportionality in the suspension and
expulsion of Black students with disabilities.  (Helena Dec. Exh. B at 11 and Exh. C.)  
 
In opposition, Williams attests: “[S]uspensions
and expulsions are governed by Section 48900, and without regard to race. The
District does not intentionally target students by race for punishment.
Students are only punished when they commit a violation that requires
punishment, such as acts identified in Section 48900. I am unaware of any
circumstance where any student, based on their race, was baited into committing
a violation of school policy – the Trial Brief does not cite to any such
situation either. . . . Assuming that there is a disproportionality in race as
alleged by the plaintiffs – more African-American students receive suspensions
and expulsions compared to other races, and out of proportion to their numbers
in the District ¿ each student who is punished is done so in compliance with
Section 48900, and that student had to have committed a policy violation prior
to receiving such punishment.” (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 22-24.)  
 
Thus, Respondents do not affirmatively
dispute the evidence that Black students and Black students with disabilities
are suspended disproportionately compared to other student groups. Further, Respondents
have previously admitted the Discipline Matrix could contribute to inequitable
suspension policies and practices. Respondents claim the Discipline Matrix
is no longer used, but they fail to explain why it still appears on the
District’s website and is attached to the District campus’s school site safety
plans. Further, Respondents submit no evidence the Discipline Matrix has been
rescinded.  
 
Under the circumstances, Petitioners
have sufficiently demonstrated, with respect to the Discipline Matrix and its
contribution to inequitable suspension policies and practices, the District “has failed to act, and its failure to act is arbitrary,
beyond the bounds of reason, or in derogation of the applicable legal
standards.” (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health, supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 704.) The court will grant the writ
directing Respondents to “prohibit the use” of the Discipline Matrix as it is
currently crafted.[15] (See
Proposed Order ¶ 4.)  
 
In all other respects, however,
Petitioners have not shown they are entitled to writ relief for the third cause
of action. Except as to the Discipline Matrix, Petitioners have not proven
Respondents have a systematic practice or policy—which could be enjoined by
mandate—of failing to follow mandatory due process procedures for suspensions. Further, on this record, Petitioners have not shown the
manner in which Respondents address disproportionality in the suspension of
students is ministerial in nature. Petitioners also have not shown Respondents
are failing to exercise their discretion in some manner to address
disproportionality in suspensions in the District. The 2020 and 2021 CCEIS Plans cited by Petitioners evidence
Respondents’ exercise of discretion to address this serious public welfare
issue. “Mandamus does not lie to compel a
public agency to exercise discretionary powers in a particular manner,
only to compel it to exercise its discretion in some manner.” (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health, supra,
197 Cal.App.4th at 700.)  
 
Writ relief is limited. Certainly, disproportionality
in suspensions—as to race or disability—must be remedied. That the District is
exercising its discretion to address the issue precludes writ relief. Petitioners
may have legal options—other than writ relief—available to them to as a remedy.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court
grants the writ relief (as stated above) on Petitioners’ third cause of action.  
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Alleged Violations of
Education and Government Code Procedures Governing Expulsions 
 
The Education Code restricts the
conduct for which a student can be recommended for expulsion. (See §§ 48900,
48900.2, 48900.3, 48900.4, 48900.7.) Prior to a school district expelling a
student, the district must give the student various procedural protections,
including a hearing within 30 school days unless the student requests
postponement; written notice of various procedural rights; and the ability to
inspect all documents, to question all witnesses and other evidence, and to
present oral and documentary evidence in the pupil’s behalf. (§§ 48915,
48918.)  For students who are expelled, school
districts are required to provide an adequate education program; for students
with disabilities, the education program must comply with their Individual
Education Plans (IEP). (20 U.S.C. §§ 1412, subd. (a)(1), 1415, subd. (k)(1)(D);
34 C.F.R. § 300.530, subd. (d); §§ 48916.1, 48916.)
 
              Discipline
Matrix
 
Petitioners contend a writ should
issue prohibiting the District from applying the Discipline Matrix because it
“authorizes expulsion for even the most minor of behavioral infractions,” in
violation of the statutory limits on expulsion. (Opening Brief 12:3-4.) For those
reasons discussed concerning suspensions, the court agrees as to expulsions.  
 
Due Process Procedures 
 
Petitioners contend, as a matter of
practice and policy, District fails to follow the statutory due process
procedures for expulsions. As support, Petitioners rely heavily on Hernandez’s
review of the school files for 20 expulsion packets. (Report 271-272.) Hernandez
reviewed the expulsion packets for 20 expulsions of students with disabilities
from the 2021-2022 school year. (See Report 241-242.) The District expelled 54 students
with or without disabilities in the 2021-2022 school year.  (See Report 241-242.)  
 
Petitioners note Hernandez found a “ ‘notable
variability in the contents and documentation within each file.’ ” (Opening Brief
12:11-12 [citing Report 271].) Hernandez also determined none of the files
included an expulsion order and that only 40 percent (8 students) were expelled
for “one of the top five offenses pursuant to EC 48915(c).” (Report 271-272.) In
addition, 75 percent of the students (16 out of 20) “elected to forgo the panel
hearing and opted for a stipulated expulsion.” (Report 272.)
 
While the District’s policies and the Education
Code require an expulsion order (see Helena Decl. Exh. Z), Petitioners do not
explain why an expulsion order would be necessary in the event of a stipulated
expulsion. As Petitioners note, 75 percent of the students in Hernandez’s file stipulated
to an expulsion. Importantly, Hernandez acknowledged “the inconsistent
documentation and number of students with stipulated expulsions limited the
ability to conduct a file review to gauge compliance with the education code
regulations and District policies that govern expulsions.” (Report at 271.) Given
the limitations in Hernandez’s case file review, and the file review concerned only
20 expulsions from a single year, Petitioners do not demonstrate, from the
evidence, the District fails to follow the statutory due process procedures for
expulsions.
 
Petitioners also contend “[t]o skirt
their statutory obligations, [the District] persuades parents to
waive their rights and stipulate to expulsion – a procedure which carries no
benefit for the student.” (Opening Brief 12:18-19 [emphasis added].) As
support, Petitioners rely on Hernandez’s opinion that, while stipulated
expulsions are not prohibited by the State, they serve as a “waiver” system
that causes students and parents to relinquish due process protections with
little or no incentive for doing so, as the consequences remain the same.  (See Opening Brief 12:18-25 [citing Report
271-272, 290-291].) 
 
Petitioners also cite the declaration
of parent H.N., who explains she was “pressured” into signing a stipulated
expulsion after school administrators recommended expulsion following a fight
involving her daughter, J.N. (H.N. Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8.)[16]
Neither Hernandez nor H.N. offer any solid support for the assertion the
District pressures or persuades students to enter stipulated expulsions as part
of a pattern or practice to avoid mandatory due process expulsion procedures. The
court finds Petitioners’ evidence inconclusive and cannot find the District has
a policy or practice of failing to comply with due process expulsion
procedures.  
 
Disparate Impact of Expulsion Practices on Black
Students and Students with Disabilities 
 
Petitioners cite evidence from the
Report demonstrating 60 percent of the students expelled from the District in
2021-2022 were Black. Also, Black students with disabilities comprised 25.3
percent of the special education population, but comprised 65.2 percent of all
expulsions issued to students with disabilities. This data is concerning and
problematic. Nonetheless, except with respect to the Discipline Matrix,
Petitioners have not shown the District has any systemic practice or
procedure related to expulsions that are causing these disproportionalities and
that can be corrected by a writ of mandate. The court cannot
compel the District to exercise its discretion in any specific way to address
these serious concerns by way of a writ of mandate. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court
grants the writ relief (as stated above) on Petitioners’ fourth cause of action.  
 
Fifth Cause of Action – Due Process Protections
in Voluntary and Involuntary Transfers and Independent Study
 
Petitioners contend the District “evades the procedural requirements for expulsion by
employing voluntary and involuntary transfers” (Opening Brief 13:24-25); that the
“District’s unlawful transfer policy fall most heavily on Black students and
students with disabilities” (Opening Brief 15:25-26); and that such policy is
arbitrary and capricious. (Opening Brief 16:9-10; see Pet. ¶¶ 186-191.) Also in
the fifth cause of action, Petitioners allege the District “violates its
mandatory duties regarding placement of students with disabilities in
‘independent study,’ ” (Opening Brief 16:15-16) including because, among other
reasons, the District’s policy “gives principals broad discretion to place
students in independent study as a matter of discipline.” (Opening Brief 16:22-23;
see Pet. ¶ 191.)
 
              Voluntary
and Involuntary Transfers 
 
Voluntary transfers and involuntary
transfers are governed by two different sections of the Education Code. Both
statutes require school boards to adopt rules and procedures to govern transfer
of students from comprehensive to continuation schools. (§§ 48432.3, subd. (a),
48432.5, subd. (a).)  
 
Section 48432.3, subdivision (a) governs
voluntary transfers. The statute provides: 
 
these policies and procedures shall ensure that there
is a clear criterion for determining which pupils may voluntarily transfer or
be recommended for a transfer to a continuation school and that this criterion
is not applied arbitrarily, but is consistently applied on a districtwide
basis. Approval for the voluntary transfer of a pupil to a continuation school
shall be based on a finding that the voluntary placement will promote the
educational interests of the pupil.  
 
Section 48432.5 governs involuntary
transfers. The statute provides:
 
[a]
decision to transfer the pupil involuntarily shall be based on a finding that
the pupil committed an act enumerated in Section 48900,
or has been habitually truant or irregular in attendance from instruction upon
which the pupil is lawfully required to attend. (§ 48432.5(d).)  
 
The
involuntary transfer statute also states:
 
Involuntary
transfer to a continuation school shall be imposed only when other means fail
to bring about pupil improvement; provided that a pupil may be involuntarily
transferred the first time the pupil commits an act enumerated in Section 48900 if
the principal determines that the pupil's presence causes a danger to persons
or property or threatens to disrupt the instructional process. (§ 48432.5,
subd. (h).)
 
Petitioners contends the District’s policy
fails to distinguish between voluntary and involuntary transfers. As support,
Petitioners cite a document entitled Implementation of Education Code 48432.5
Voluntary/Involuntary Transfers (included in Appendix 11 to the Report). (Helena
Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. D.) Although Respondents have objected to the document on
foundational grounds, they have not objected to Exhibit D to Helena’s
declaration. Further, in her declaration, Williams attests “Exhibit D appears
to be an altered version of the District’s AR which was last revised in
February 2001.”  (Williams Decl. ¶
36.)  Williams does not state how Exhibit
D was altered compared to the District’s Administrative Regulation 6184. (Williams
Decl. ¶ 33 and Exh. 1.) Further, despite having the opportunity to do so,
Respondents have not disputed the authenticity of Petitioners’ Exhibit D. Thus,
the court concludes Petitioners’ Exhibit D is a true and correct copy of a
written District policy. Respondents do not claim that this policy has been
rescinded.  
 
As argued by Petitioners, and not rebutted by
Respondents, Petitioners’ Exhibit D clearly conflicts with sections 48432.3 and
48432.5 because it applies regulations that apply to involuntary transfers to
voluntary transfers. Thus, Petitioners’ Exhibit D incorrectly states section
48432.5 applies to involuntary transfers, even though that section only
applies to voluntary transfers. 
Further, Exhibit D omits various requirements from section 48432.3 for
voluntary transfers, including the requirements that the District’s policies
and procedures shall ensure that “voluntary placement in a continuation school
shall not be used as an alternative to expulsion unless alternative means of
correction have been attempted pursuant to Section 48900.5,”
and “the
transfer is voluntary and the pupil has a right to return to his or her
previous school.” (§ 48432.3, subd. (b)(1) and (4).)  
 
In opposition, Respondents assert “[t]he only
involuntary transfers of which the District is aware are governed by District
Administrative Regulation 6184, . . . . involve[ing] transfers to continuation
schools.” (Opposition 33:22-23; see Williams Decl. ¶ 33.) However, as noted,
Respondents have not disputed that Petitioners’ Exhibit D is a true and correct
copy of a written District policy, and Respondents do not demonstrate Exhibit D
has been rescinded. Respondents do not develop an argument that the policy
submitted as Exhibit D actually complies with sections 48432.3 and 48432.5. Accordingly,
Respondents have a ministerial duty to refrain from applying this policy
blurring the requirements of voluntary and involuntary transfers to any
students. 
 
The court finds Petitioners are entitled to
relief through their fifth cause of action to the extent it challenges the District’s
written policy entitled “Implementation of Education Code 48432.5
Voluntary/Involuntary Transfers.” (See Helena Decl. Exh. D.)[17]
 
              Independent
Study 
 
Petitioners argue the District’s guidelines for
placing special education students into independent study programs conflict
with various federal and state laws and regulations. (See Opening Brief 16-17 [citing
Cal. Code Regs., tit. 5, § 11700, subds. (c) and (d); 34 C.F.R. 
§ 300.116; Ed. Code § 51745, subd. (c); 42 U.S.C.
§ 12132; 29 U.S.C. 794; 28 C.F.R. § 35.130.) 
Specifically, Petitioners assert “[t]he District’s policy on placing
students with disabilities in independent study imposes an administrative
approval process that can overturn the IEP team’s decision.” (Opening Brief 16:19-20.)
In addition, Petitioners contend “the District’s policy unlawfully and
discriminatorily disqualifies students with disabilities from independent study
on the basis of their disability status.” (Opening Brief 16:26-27.)
 
The District’s guidelines Petitioners cite provide:

 
Alternatives to comprehensive high school
programs are in existence to meet the needs of students who do not experience success
in a traditional school setting. Students receiving special education services
are not denied access to alternative education programs based solely on their
disability. Once enrolled in an alternative education program, they continue to
receive the appropriate special education and related services as stipulated in  their Individual Education Program (IEP). An
IEP team meeting must be convened, anytime an individual with exceptional needs
is referred for placement in an alternative education setting to determine if
such placement can appropriately meet the needs of that student.
 
As with other program placements, when a student
is placed in an alternative education program, the decision to discontinue
special education services is made only by the IEP team. This decision is
reached only after determining that the student’s problems have been remedied
to such a degree that the student is capable of functioning satisfactorily in general
education programs without special education assistance.
 
In general, the IEP team may recommend the
placement of a student in an alternative education program, but the final
decision is made by District administration (Program Advisory, CA State Dept.
of Education, March 30, 1990; EC Sect. 48432).
 
(Helena
Decl. Exh. E [bold in original].)
 
Petitioners have not demonstrated with any
analysis that the District’s guidelines necessarily conflict in practice with
the regulations and statutes cited by Petitioners. Further, even if there a
conflict could arise in a specific case, such possibility does not justify a
writ of ordinary mandate directing Respondents not to enforce the guidelines in
all cases. (See Proposed Order ¶ 7.)  Special
education students to which the guidelines are applied also have adequate
remedies at law and/or administrative remedies to challenge the District’s
decisions and actions with respect to independent study.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the court
grants the writ relief (as stated above) on Petitioners’ fifth cause of action.
The
court will grant a writ directing Respondents to discontinue the District’s
written policy entitled Implementation of Education Code 48432.5
Voluntary/Involuntary Transfers. (See Helena Decl. Exh. D and Proposed Order ¶
5.a.)
 
Seventh Cause of Action – Protections for Students
With Disabilities
 
Pursuant to federal and state law, school
districts are required to provide a free and appropriate public education to students
with disabilities in the least restrictive environment (LRE) possible. School
Districts must also implement procedural safeguards that ensure parents are
informed participants in the process and students with disabilities receive
appropriate education programs. (See 20 U.S.C.
§ 1412, subd. (a)(5)(A); 34 C.F.R. § 300.114; §§ 56040.1, 56342, subd. (b).)[18]
 
Restrictive Placements 
 
Petitioners argue the District “relegates a
disproportionate number of students with disabilities, particularly Black
students, into separate classrooms on otherwise integrated campuses for a
majority of the school day or removes them to entirely segregated campuses
without first trying to increase their IEP services and supports in less
restrictive settings.” (Opening Brief 18:8-11 [citing Report at 29, 59-68; Helena
Decl. Exh. F; B.Y. Decl. ¶ 5; and K.D. Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.) 
 
As support, Petitioners cite a discussion from
the Report where Hernandez analyzes allegations that the District segregates
students with disabilities from nondisabled peers at rates far exceeding the
targets set by the State. (Report at 66.) As Petitioners advise, Hernandez
found evidence (for the year studied) that Black students represented 39.1
percent of students in Special Day Class-behavioral (SDC-B) program classes
even though Black students account for only 25 percent of the special education
population. (Report at 64, 67.) Based on the data, Hernandez opined Black
students “are three times more likely to be placed in a SDC-B program than
students from all other racial/ethnic groups.” (Report 67.) He explained the
ratio “exceeds the CDE’s 3.0 threshold for significant disproportionality.” (Report
at 67.)
 
Hernandez’s expert opinion about the existence of
significant disproportionality does not, in itself, provide a basis for writ
relief. Notably, Petitioners do not provide a comprehensive  discussion of their own evidence, as
required. (Local Rules, Rule 3.231, subd.
(i)(2).) For instance, in the same section cited by
Petitioners, Hernandez acknowledged “the low enrollments in the most segregated
placements, such as Desert Pathways and NPS, make determining the
inappropriateness of these placements difficult without examining students’
IEPs.” (Report at 67.) While Hernandez opined generally that placement of Black
students in more restrictive settings “is indicative of systemic and structural
problems,” he does not identify a specific policy or practice he believes is
causing the overrepresentation. (Report at 65.) Further, in the context of writ
proceedings the remedies Hernandez proposes are inherently discretionary:
“The overall high rate of segregation . . . will require extensive training and
capacity building . . . . Although the investigation did not examine this in
depth, it would be prudent to conduct an analysis of the referral,
identification, and placement processes to ensure that students are receiving
the appropriate general education supports and interventions prior to a
referral . . . .”  (Report at 65-66.)
 
Petitioners also contend “the SDC-B program
imposes a problematic behavior management tool known as the ‘Level System’
under which students who have not met ‘behavioral expectations’ must remain in
the classroom during lunch, passing periods, and other school activities,
further punishing students for disability-related behaviors and decreasing
their access to less restrictive settings.” (Opening Brief 18:22-26 [citing Report
at 59-60, 67-68 and Helena Decl. Exh. F].) Again, Petitioners do not provide a
comprehensive and completely accurate discussion of their own evidence. In the
cited section, Hernandez also acknowledged his “investigation did not collect
enough information to establish a sense of the effectiveness of the level
system for managing student conduct.” (Report at 68.) Further, Petitioners do
not demonstrate the District’s alleged use of the Level System violates any
laws or regulations.  
 
Finally, Petitioners contend “students with disabilities placed in the District’s
restrictive placements receive limited direct instruction in favor of
independent packet or computer work.” (Opening Brief 18:27-19:1 [citing Report
at 58, 68-69 and B.Y. Decl. ¶ 5 and K.D. Decl. 
¶¶ 10-11.) The cited evidence does not
demonstrate any systemic practice or policy. Further, while Petitioners
disagree with the District’s discretionary decisions as to SDC-Bs and
restrictive placements, the disagreement is not as basis for writ relief.
 
Restraint
Policies
 
The Education Code prohibits various behavioral
interventions on students with exceptional needs, including interventions that
inflict physical harm or pain. (§ 56521.2, subd. (a).) “An educational provider
may use seclusion or a behavioral restraint only to control behavior that poses
a clear and present danger of serious physical harm to the pupil or others that
cannot be immediately prevented by a response that is less restrictive.” (§
49005.4.) 
 
“Emergency interventions
may only be used to control unpredictable, spontaneous behavior that poses
clear and present danger of serious physical harm to the individual with
exceptional needs, or others, and that cannot be immediately prevented by a
response less restrictive than the temporary application of a technique used to
contain the behavior.” (§ 56521.1, subd. (a).) 
“To prevent emergency interventions from being used in lieu of planned,
systematic behavioral interventions, the parent, guardian, and residential care
provider, if appropriate, shall be notified within one schoolday if an
emergency intervention is used or serious property damage occurs. A
behavioral emergency report shall immediately be completed and maintained in
the file of the individual with exceptional needs.” (§ 56521.1, subd. (e).)
 
Petitioners contend “District data shows that
Black students with disabilities experience restraints at much higher rates
than students with disabilities of all other races/ethnicities,” in violation
of a statute that prohibits behavioral interventions that inflict physical
harm, pain, or other abuse. (Opening Brief 19:17-18.) Petitioners argue: 
 
District data shows that
Black students with disabilities experience restraints at much higher rates
than students with disabilities of all other races/ethnicities. Hernandez Rep.
at 359. More than three-fourths of restraints reported were committed on Black
students with disabilities, a gross overrepresentation. Id. An analysis
of BERs and related forms found “questionable uses of physical interventions,”
with only a small fraction of forms including a description of risk behavior
that could be deemed an emergency. Id. The poor documentation of these
traumatic events and uses of physical interventions “is indicative of poor
training and oversight by school administrators for ensuring the use of
restraints, including handcuffing of students, only occurs during emergency
situations or when students pose a significant risk to themselves or others.” Id.
at 360. (Opening Brief 19:17-26 [citing Report at 359-360].)
 
In response, Williams declares: 
 
The District abides by [section 49005.4] and uses
restraints on a case-by-case basis based on the circumstances at hand and the
student’s disability. . . . The District teaches its staff that interacts with
special needs students appropriate restraint techniques. . . . Whenever a
student with disabilities is restrained, school officials must complete a
Behavior Emergency Report (“BER”). . . . If the “Behavioral Emergency Report”
was written regarding a student who does not have a behavioral intervention
plan, the designated responsible administrator shall, within two days, schedule
an IEP to determine whether an FBA should be conducted and/or an interim
behavior intervention plan developed. . . . However, If the “Behavioral
Emergency Report” was written regarding a student who has a behavioral
intervention plan, any incident involving a previously unseen serious behavior
problem or where a previously designed intervention is not effective should be
referred to the IEP team to review and determine if the incident constitutes a
need to modify the plan. The District complies with these guidelines and
procedures.  (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 43-47.)
 
Hernandez found (in the studied year) three out of four
restraints were carried out on Black students with disabilities “which is
indicative of a clear overrepresentation of Black [students with disabilities].”
He opined “these numbers warrant elevated concerns and awareness of the problem
throughout all levels of the organization” and “serve as a clear call for
action to remedy these inequities.” (Report at 359.)  
 
Hernandez’s opinion highlights evidence of disproportionality
in the use of restraints at a generalized level. Petitioners do not cite
evidence concerning the specific circumstances in which restraints are used. Respondents
submit evidence “[t]he District abides by
[section 49005.4] and uses restraints on a case-by-case basis based on the
circumstances at hand and the student’s disability. . . .” (Williams Decl. ¶¶
43-47.) The court does not find on this record Respondents have any
policy or practice of using restraints in a manner that fails to comply with
the law.
 
The court agrees with Petitioners and Hernandez that the data
suggesting disproportionate use of restraints for Black students with
disabilities is cause for concern and warrants an assessment of any underlying
reasons for such disproportionality. However, Petitioners have not cited
evidence supporting a finding the District has a systemic and illegal policy or
practice—correctable by mandate—that is causing this overrepresentation.
Petitioners also have not shown Respondents are failing to
exercise their discretion in some manner to address disproportionality in use
of restraints. “Mandamus does not lie to compel a public agency to exercise
discretionary powers in a particular manner, only to compel it to exercise
its discretion in some manner.” (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los
Angeles County Dept. of Public Health, supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 700.)  
 
Petitioners argue “District policy
on law enforcement referrals makes no reference to the Education Code
requirement that school officials provide copies of special education and
disciplinary records to law enforcement when a student has been referred for a
suspected criminal act.” (Opening Brief 20:1-4 [citing Helena Decl. Exh. H].) Petitioners
do not, however, develop an argument that this District policy fails to comply
with any specific statute or regulation.
 
Petitioners also assert “one school
official noted that IEPs are never provided to school-based law enforcement.” (Opening
Brief 20:4-5 [citing Report at 354].) This anecdotal evidence from “one school
official” does not demonstrate any systematic practice or policy that could be
enjoined by mandate.  
 
Policies
for Manifestation Determination Reviews
 
For students with disabilities, districts must
convene a Manifestation Determination Review (MDR) within ten school days of a
decision to recommend the student for expulsion or after 10 days of
disciplinary exclusions in a single school year. (See 34 C.F.R. § 300.530, subds.
(b), (e).) Hernandez explains the MDR is
a procedural protection to ensure that students with disabilities are not
discriminatorily disciplined for disability-related behaviors. (Report at 286.)
MDRs must afford parents the opportunity to participate and require District
participants to “review all relevant information in the student’s file.” (34 C.F.R.
§§ 300.322, subd. (a)(1), 300.327, 300.501, subd. (c)(1), 300.530, subd. (e).)  
 
Petitioners argue the District’s policies for MDR
do not comply with applicable law. (See Opening Brief 20:9-22-14.)
 
To evaluate the District’s compliance with the
MDR requirement, Hernandez reviewed 101 MDRs from school year 2021-2022. (Report
at 287.) He determined, among other things, that Black students made up nearly
three-quarters of the MDRs. (Report at 287.) Petitioners cite various other
findings made by Hernandez based on his review of 101 MDRs, including “in 12% of cases reviewed, the MDRs reviewed were held
outside of the required 10-day timeframe and 28% were held after a student had
been removed for more than ten cumulative days.” (Opening Brief 21:6-8 [citing
287].)[19]  
 
In response, Williams summarizes the District’s
policies regarding MDRs and attests:
 
The District abides by the aforementioned policies
relating to manifestation determination and forming IEP teams. . . . As to the
procedure for manifestation determination, the District convenes a
Manifestation Determination Review (“MDR”) within ten school days of a decision
to recommend the student for expulsion or after 10 days of disciplinary
exclusions in a single school year. The District abides by these rules as
policy and practice. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 28-29.) 

 
Petitioners do not show with evidence that
the District has a systemic policy or practice with respect to MDRs that fails
to comply with the law and that could be enjoined by mandate.
Hernandez’s expert opinions, based on his review of 101 MDRs, is not sufficient
to support such a finding.[20]  Petitioners also
have not shown with evidence that Respondents are failing to exercise their
discretion in some manner to comply with the laws and regulations governing
MDRs. (See AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of
Public Health, supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 700.)  
 
Petitioners contend the District’s “clear
breaches of statutory and regulatory mandates that protect students with
disabilities require writ relief.” (Opening Brief 22:12-13.)  However, as discussed above, Petitioners have
not proven their claim or demonstrated that writ relief is appropriate
in the circumstances discussed above.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s
are not entitled to relief through their seventh cause of action.
 
Ninth Cause of Action – Duty to Maintain Complete
and Accurate Student Records
 
Petitioners argue
Respondents are failing to meet their mandatory reporting requirements for CDE’s
data collection pursuant to section 60900. They also allege Respondents do not “maintain
complete and accurate student records and . . . to provide parents access to
students’ cumulative files.” (Opening Brief 23:23-24.)  
 
As noted, Petitioners
bear the burden of proof and persuasion on their claims.
(See California Correctional Peace
Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd., supra, 10 Cal.4th at 1154.) To meet their burden,
Petitioners must “cite to specific pages of the record . . . and avoid block
cites.”  (Local Rule, Rule 3.231, subd. (i)(2).)  The court is “not required to search the record to
ascertain whether it contains support for [the parties’] contentions. . . .
[The court does] not serve as ‘backup appellate counsel,’ or make the parties’
arguments for them.” (Inyo
Citizens for Better Planning v. Inyo County Board of Supervisors,
supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at 14.)  
 
Petitioners do
not meet their initial burden on the ninth cause of action. While Petitioners
suggest Respondents have not complied with ministerial data collection and
reporting duties in section 60900, Petitioners do not identify any provision in
section 60900 they contend Respondents have violated. (Opening Brief 22:19-28.)
Rather, Petitioners cite to CDE’s Data Guide “a guide for program staff” for
CDE’s California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data System (CALPADS Data Guide).
(Helena Decl. Exh. J.)  
 
Assuming without deciding
the CALPADS Data Guide creates mandatory duties for Respondents (a position Petitioners
do not explain), Petitioners have not sufficiently supported their contention
that Respondents fail to meet their reporting requirements. Petitioners report “Hernandez
found that the data [the District] reports to the state is conflicting,
inconsistent, and unreliable. See, e.g., Hernandez [Report] at 111, 141-142,
178, 182, 184, 197-198, 202, 296, 315, 326, 357.” (Opening Brief 23:5-7.) The block
citation is not persuasive. (See
Local Rule, Rule 3.231, subd. (i)(2).) From Petitioner’s block citation, the
court cannot discern the specific evidence the Report upon which Petitioners
rely and section 60900.  
 
Further, the
court has reviewed Petitioners’ specific record citations and has not found
sufficient evidence that would support the requested writ. For example, Petitioners
argue “[s]chool administrators at [the District’s] school sites use a variety
of different Google Forms to record discipline data, referrals to police,
referrals to security, referrals to on-campus detention, referrals to Student
Support Centers, referrals to administrators, instances of restraint, and for
completion of BERs [Behavior Emergency Report].” (Opening Brief 23:7-11, [citing
Report at 356].) Relatedly, Petitioners contend “Different school sites have
inconsistent policies for how this data is recorded and reported.” (Opening Brief
23:11-12 [citing Report at 360.) Petitioners cite no statute or regulation requiring
each school site within the District to use identical methods of recording
student data. Moreover, Hernandez’s opinion that individual school sites have
“inconsistent policies” for recording and reporting data does not demonstrate
the District has a systematic practice or policy of failing to comply
with District’s data collecting and reporting duties.  
 
Petitioners
contend the District’s schools “use various forms of in-school suspension and
also pervasively rely on ‘off-the-books’ suspensions . . . as an informal
disciplinary removal.” (Opening Brief 23:17-19 [citing Report at 128].) Petitioners
also argue the District “does not require
schools to report these in-school and informal suspensions, and there is no
consistent policy or practice among [the District’s] campuses as to whether
in-school and informal suspensions are reported . . . .” (Opening Brief 23:20-22
[citing Report at 141].) The arguments are insufficiently supported by the evidence
relied upon by Petitioners. Here, Petitioners appear to rely on Hernandez’s
statement that a high number of families “reported the use of informal
suspensions,” but the evidence has been objected to and excluded as inadmissible
hearsay; it cannot be admitted for its truth. (Report at 128.) Petitioners do
not quote or specify the opinion they rely on from the Report at page 141. The
court does not find the cited material persuasive evidence of a systematic practice
or policy of failing to comply with District’s data collecting and reporting
duties.  
 
Petitioners also
cite statements from Kerry Agomo, a former District student, and T.X., a mother
of a current student, reporting they have been denied student records requested
from the District. (Opening Brief 23:23-24:10; Agomo Decl. ¶¶ 11-13; T.X. Decl.
¶ 5.) Even if true, however, such anecdotal evidence does not prove a systematic
practice or policy of failing to maintain complete and accurate student
records and failing to provide parents access to student files. (See §§ 49061, subd.
(b), 49069.7, subd. (b).)  
 
The court finds
Petitioners have failed to meet their burden on their claims related to section
60900. Accordingly, they are not entitled to relief through their ninth cause
of action.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The sixth, eighth,
and tenth causes of action are forfeited by Petitioners, and Petitioners are
entitled to no relief through them.
 
The third, fourth
and fifth causes of action are granted in part as described. The court will
issue a writ directing Respondents to “prohibit the use” of the Discipline Matrix
and the use of the form Implementation of Education Code 48432.5 Voluntary/Involuntary
Transfers. (See Proposed Order ¶¶ 4, 5 a.) The remaining relief sought through
the causes of action is denied.
 
The petition is
otherwise denied.
 
 IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
March 15, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
________________________________ 
Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge
of the Superior Court 
 
 

 


