..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary:

```
Case Number: 23STCV29440
Plaintiff's Name: Penny Lavitt
Defendant's Name: Los Angeles Unified School District
People-Names: Penny Lavitt, Martin Lavitt
Company-Names: Los Angeles Unified School District
Places: Mt. Washington Elementary School, Los Angeles
Dates: June 9, 2023, November 30, 2023, February 2, 2024, February 20, 2024, February 26, 2024, March 4, 2024, March 6, 2024
Events: Demurrer filed, First Amended Complaint filed, reply in support of demurrer filed
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To test the legal sufficiency of the complaint
Facts: Plaintiff Penny Lavitt was seriously injured on June 9, 2023, when a student ran into her at Mt. Washington Elementary School. Plaintiff filed a complaint on November 30, 2023, against Los Angeles Unified School District. The defendant filed a demurrer on February 2, 2024.
Disputes: The dispute is over whether the plaintiff's complaint states a claim against the defendant.
Acts: The plaintiff filed a complaint, the defendant filed a demurrer, and the plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.
Agreements: The parties did not agree on the timing of the service of the First Amended Complaint.
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Government Code
Case Citations: Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., Blank v. Kirwan, Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson, Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co., Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court, Frantz v. Blackwell, Barnett v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co., Poizner v. Fremont General Corp., Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, Government Code
Roles:
  - Judge: The judge is ruling on the demurrer and granting the defendant's motion to dismiss the complaint.
  - Plaintiff: The plaintiff is seeking to state a claim against the defendant.
  - Defendant: The defendant is seeking to dismiss the complaint.
Significant Statements:
  - The judge sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
  - The plaintiff did not serve the First Amended Complaint until February 26, after the opposition was due.
  - The plaintiff did not obtain leave from the court or a stipulation from the defendant to file the First Amended Complaint.
  - The judge grants the plaintiff leave to amend within 21 days.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling sustaining the demurrer filed by the Los Angeles Unified School District with leave to amend. The plaintiff, Penny Lavitt, alleges that she was seriously injured on June 9, 2023, when a student ran into her at Mt. Washington Elementary School. The plaintiff filed a complaint on November 30, 2023, against the defendant, alleging causes of action for negligence, failure to perform a mandatory duty, and loss of consortium.

The defendant filed a demurrer on February 2, 2024, arguing that the plaintiff did not plead sufficient facts to state a claim against the defendant. The plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on February 20, 2024, but did not serve the defendant until February 26, after the opposition was due.

The judge finds that the plaintiff did not plead sufficient facts in their complaint to show that they filed an administrative claim against the defendant, as required by the Government Code. Therefore, the judge sustains the demurrer and grants the plaintiff leave to amend their complaint within 21 days.
