 Case Number:  22STCV20297    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One), filed 12/8/23
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set
One), filed 12/8/23
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission (Set
One), filed 12/8/23
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel regarding what disputes (if
any) remain following the IDC.
Background
This case arises out of a
motor vehicle accident on January 16, 2021, near the intersection of South
Western Avenue and West 89th Street in Los Angeles.  
On June 21, 2022,
Plaintiffs Uriel Calzada Martinez and Aracely De Los Santos filed the Complaint
in this action, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence against Defendants Jerome Winfield (“Defendant”) and Does 1
through 50.  On April 13, 2023, Defendant filed his Answer to the
Complaint.
On August 22, 2023,
Plaintiff Uriel Calzada Martinez (“Plaintiff”) served Defendant with discovery,
including Form Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production (Set One),
and Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Weinberg Decla., ¶ 3 &
Exhs. A-C.)  Defendant requested, and Plaintiff granted, an extension
of time to respond, but Defendant still failed to provide timely
responses.  (Id., ¶ 4.) 
On October 25, 2023,
Defendant provided untimely responses.  (Id., ¶ 4 & Exh. B,
D, E.)  The responses include both objections and substantive
responses.  (Id., Exh. B, D, E.)  The responses are
not verified, however.  (Id., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff attempted to
meet and confer with Defendant to obtain the verifications and substantive
responses.  Defendant did not provide the verifications and suggested
instead an exchange in which Defendant would provide the verifications if Plaintiff
would agree that Defendant had not waived his objections by failing to provide
a timely response.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-7 & Exhs. C-F.)
On December 8, 2023,
Plaintiff these three motions to compel further responses.  Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions.
Defendant has not filed
any opposition.
On January 23, 2024, the
Court conducted an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  The issues were not resolved, but counsel
agreed to exchange further communication and information.
The motions were initially
set for hearing on February 16, 21, and 22. 
The Court continued all three hearings to March 6, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
Discussion
The Court will hear from
counsel.
Conclusion
The Court will hear from
counsel.