  Case Number:  24TRCV00173    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KATIE
  ANN MARIE ABBETT, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00173




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SP
  PLUS CORPORATION, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 2, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants SP Plus
Corporation, SP Plus Property Management Inc., Le’Shey Damari Fuqua, and 405
Parking 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Katie Ann Marie Abbett
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
third cause of action and SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
fourth and sixth causes of action.   
The
motion to strike is DENIED as to paras. 35, 37 (under first cause of action for
assault), 41, 43 (under second cause of action for battery), and 48, 50 (under
third cause of action for IIED) and prayer for punitive damages and GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to 56, 58 (under fourth cause of action for gross
negligence).
BACKGROUND
            On January 18, 2024, plaintiff Katie
Ann Marie Abbett filed a complaint against SP Plus Corporation, SP Plus
Property Management, Inc., Jamison Properties, LP, 405 Airport Parking, Le’Shea
Damari Fuqua, G. Marc Baumann, Kristopher Roy, and Wenyu Blanchard for (1)
assault, (2) battery, (3) IIED, (4) gross negligence, (5) premise liability,
and (6) vicarious liability.  
            On February 13, 2024, plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal as to defendants G. Marc Bauman, Kristopher Roy,
and Wenyu Blanchard.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
            Demurrer
Defendants
demur to the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action on the grounds that they
fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The
complaint alleges that on December 4, 2023, plaintiff entered 405 Parking
structure located at 9800 La Cienega Blvd., Inglewood to park her vehicle and
leave at the premise while she was leaving the U.S. for an overseas trip.  Complaint, ¶1.  After returning from her trip, on December
17, 2023, plaintiff pre-paid for the premise parking fee and returned to her
vehicle to exit the premise.  Id., ¶2.  After entering her vehicle and when she drove
to the gate to exit the premise, at about 11:30 p.m., plaintiff scanned her
pre-paid ticket to exit the premise; however, she was unable to do so.  Id., ¶3. 
Thereafter, defendant Fuqua approached plaintiff, refused to allow her
to exit the premise, and told her that the parking fee remained unpaid.  Id., ¶4. 
Plaintiff politely explained to Fuqua and showed her that she had paid
the requisite fee.  Id., ¶5.  Fugua again refused and asked for additional
fees to be paid, which plaintiff complied with and politely paid for the
requested additional fees.  Id., ¶6.  After paying the fee, Fuqua refused plaintiff
to exit the premise; instead, she went around her car and hit/scratched
it.  Id., ¶7.  When plaintiff noticed that Fuqua was
hitting/scratching/damaging her vehicle, she cracked her driver-door open to
exit and take pictures of damage to her vehicle.  Id., ¶8.
The
complaint further alleges that Fuqua walked towards plaintiff’s driver door and
slammed it on her.  Id., ¶9.  Plaintiff again cracked her door open to exit
and Fuqua slammed the door again.  Id., ¶10.  Plaintiff’s cracking her driver door open and
Fuqua slamming the door on her repeated about three times.  Id., ¶11. 
Plaintiff managed to step out of her vehicle; Fuqua walked towards her
in a threatening manner, touched her body, battled her, knocked her to the
ground, hit her in the face, and attempted to choke her.  Id., ¶12. 
Plaintiff’s face began to bleed when Fuqua battled and battered
her.  Id., ¶13.  Plaintiff got back on her feet, began to back
away from Fuqua when Doe 1 shoved and knocked plaintiff to the ground.  Id., ¶14. 
Plaintiff got back on her feet again, grabbed her phone, and began video
recording.  Id., ¶15.  Said video depicts Fuqua yielding a knife in
her hand.  Id., ¶16.  The video further shows plaintiff’s bleeding
face.  Id., ¶17.  Plaintiff managed to get into her vehicle,
moved her vehicle to a corner inside the premise, and called the Inglewood
Police Department.  Id., ¶18.  Inglewood Police arrived, took statements,
and provided plaintiff with a police card that had Fuqua’s full name written on
it.  Id., ¶20.  Plaintiff was informed that incidents similar
to what she experienced had happened to others. 
Id., ¶21.  The premise is owned,
leased, controlled, managed, or maintained by entity defendants.  Id., ¶22.
            Third cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress
The tort
of intentional infliction of emotional distress is comprised of three
elements:  (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff's injuries were
actually and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal. App.
4th 222, 234.  “In order to meet the
first requirement of the tort, the alleged conduct . . . must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  Id. at 234-35. Whether conduct is
sufficiently extreme and outrageous so as to be actionable may be determined as
a matter of law.  Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 488, 494. To avoid demurrer, the plaintiff must allege
such acts with great specificity.  Yau
v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal. App. 4th 144, 160-61.  Mere indignities, insults, threats,
annoyances, petty oppressions and the like are not enough.  Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal. 4th
1035, 1051.   
The
complaint alleges that in committing the acts described, defendants engaged in
extreme and outrageous conduct that transcended the bounds of human
decency.  Complaint, ¶45.  Defendants intended to cause and did cause
plaintiff to experience severe physical injury and emotional distress and they
each acted with reckless disregard of the high probability that plaintiff would
suffer such injuries.  Id., ¶46.
Defendants
argue that the allegations are insufficient and do not show outrageous conduct.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations meet the elements.
The Court
finds that the allegations are sufficient. 
As alleged, defendant Fuqua’s conduct was extreme and outrageous.
The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action.
            Fourth cause of action for gross
negligence
California
does not recognize a distinct common law cause of action for gross negligence
apart from negligence.  Jimenez v. 24
Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal. App. 4th 546, 552, n.3; Eriksson
v. Nunnink (2011) 191 Cal. App. 4th 826, 856, n.18 (“[i]n reality,
California does not recognize a distinct cause of action for ‘gross negligence’
independent of a statutory basis”). “Numerous California cases have discussed
the doctrine of gross negligence.  Invariably
these cases have turned upon an interpretation of a statute which has used the
words 'gross negligence' in the text.”  Cont’l
Ins. Co. v. Am. Prot. Indus. (1987) 197 Cal. App. 3d 322, 329.  Gross negligence is different from ordinary
negligence in degree, not in kind.  Anderson
v. Fitness Internal, LLC (2016) 4 Cal. App. 5th 867, 881.  Because gross negligence is simply a degree
of negligence, the elements of a claim for gross negligence is the same as one
for ordinary negligence.  Rosencrans
v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal. App. 4th 1072, 1082.  To set forth, “gross negligence” the
plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving either “want of
even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct.”  Jimenez, supra, at 555.
The
complaint alleges that defendant Fuqua’s extreme and outrageous conduct
constitutes an extreme departure from what a reasonably careful cashier in
Fuqua’s situation would have done to prevent harm to others, including
plaintiff.  Complaint, ¶52.  Doe 1 knew or should have known that his
conduct would harm plaintiff.  Id., ¶53.  Defendants knew or should have known their
assault and battery of plaintiff in all likelihood (highly probable) that will
harm plaintiff, and they breached their duty of care to plaintiff when they
assaulted and physically battered her. 
Id., 54.  Given the business in
which the entity defendants are engaged (demand for parking fees and
interactions with customers) and/or given that similar incidents had occurred
on the premise, the entity defendants had advanced knowledge, yet consciously
disregarded the safety of visitors.
Defendants
argue that gross negligence is not an independent cause of action.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that Fuqua’s conduct was “reckless.”
The Court
finds that the allegations are insufficient as this claim is not a distinct
common law cause of action apart from negligence.  Further, plaintiff has not pled a statutory
basis or elements of negligence.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Sixth cause of action for
vicarious liability
            Defendants
argue that this claim is not an independent cause of action.  The Court notes that defendants improperly
cited to trial court orders, which the Court declines to consider.
            In
opposition, plaintiff requests leave to amend to assert a cause of action for
negligent hiring and supervision, which plaintiff asserts is identical to
“vicarious liability” and “just an alternate name for it.”
            The
Court finds that the allegations are insufficient as “vicarious liability” is
not a cause of action.  Rather it is a
legal theory for imposing liability on one defendant for the acts of others.  “Vicarious liability ‘means that the act or
omission of one person . . . is imputed by operation of law to another,’
without regard to fault.”  Chee v.
Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal. App. 4th 1360,
1375 (citation omitted).
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Motion to
Strike
            Defendants
request that the Court strike paras. 35, 37 (under first cause of action), 41,
43 (under second cause of action), 48, 50 (under third cause of action), and
56, 58 (under fourth cause of action) and prayer for punitive damages.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).  Also,
“[i]nasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery
of punitive damages that the defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice,’ the cases have uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even
gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
The allegations are sufficient to
show oppression, fraud, or malice under the first, second, and third causes of
action.  Fuqua’s conduct rises to the
level of malice because it shows that she intended to cause injury or
despicable conduct which is carried on by defendants with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  Further, punitive damages “are typically
awarded for intentional torts such as assault and battery, . . . intentional
infliction of emotional distress, . . .” Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1212.
The allegations are insufficient as
to paras. 48 and 50 under the fourth cause of action for gross negligence in
light of the ruling on the demurrer and that “[i]nasmuch as Civil Code section
3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,’ the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted).
The
motion to strike is thus DENIED as to paras. 35, 37 (under first cause of
action for assault), 41, 43 (under second cause of action for battery), and 48,
50 (under third cause of action for IIED) and prayer for punitive damages and
GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to 56, 58 (under fourth cause of action for
gross negligence).
 
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
third cause of action and SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
fourth and sixth causes of action.   
The
motion to strike is DENIED as to paras. 35, 37 (under first cause of action for
assault), 41, 43 (under second cause of action for battery), and 48, 50 (under
third cause of action for IIED) and prayer for punitive damages and GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to 56, 58 (under fourth cause of action for gross
negligence).
            Moving
defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling.