  Case Number:  21STCV16429    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Plaintiff’s motion
to have matters in requests for admissions deemed admitted is DENIED as moot.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant Chris Furie and counsel
of record Ronald Richards are ordered to pay $510 in monetary sanctions within 30
days. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
Legal Standard
 
“If a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
following rules apply: (b) The requesting party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted…. The Court, on motion, may relieve that party from
this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. (2) the
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect…. (c) The court shall make this order, unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.
(CCP section 2033.280(b)-(c).)
 
Sanctions
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters
specified in a request for admissions as true.  (Code Civ. Proc. Section
2033.280(c).) 
 
Under CCP section 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the
discovery process.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) 
 
Discussion
 
On May 12, 2023,
Plaintiff propounded upon Defendant, Request for Admissions, Set Three.
(Vartapetova Decl., ¶ 2;
Exh. A.) Defendant did not provide
responses. (Id., ¶ 3.)
In opposition, Defendant argues that
responses were provided the same day the motion was filed, and thus, the motion
to deem admitted is moot. Defendant argues sanctions should not be awarded.
The Court finds the motion is moot
because Defendant served responses prior to the hearing on this motion and
Plaintiff has not argued the responses are not in substantial compliance.
Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Defendant improperly includes objections, however,
Plaintiff must file a motion to compel further, after participating in an IDC.
This motion is to compel responses, which have been provided. 
However, the request for sanctions is not
moot. Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters specified in a
request for admissions as true. (CCP section
2033.280(c).) However, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is unreasonable. The
Court imposes sanctions against Defendant and counsel of record in the amount
of $510 ($450 an hour, plus $60 in filing fees).
Defendant’s request for sanctions under CCP
sections 2023.030 for the alleged misuse of discovery is denied. In a recent
case, City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 466, 504, the Court of appeal concluded that: "sections
2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose
monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (Id.)
Conclusion
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
have matters in requests for admissions deemed admitted is DENIED as moot.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant Chris Furie and counsel
of record Ronald Richards are ordered to pay $510 in monetary sanctions within
30 days. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
 