 Case Number:  22STCV23760    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 22, 2022, Plaintiff Michann Denise Meadows (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Metro”), State of California, John Doe, Jesus
Martinez, Jotojot Keene, and Does 1-50 for negligence and statutory liability
and negligence. 
On
March 1, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant State of California without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  On
March 19, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant City of Los Angeles without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  On
September 16, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant John Doe without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
March 5, 2024, Metro filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Jesus Martinez and Roes 1-10 for implied indemnity,
comparative fault, declaratory relief, and negligence. 
On
September 12, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s unopposed motion to deem admitted
matters specified in requests for admission, set one, served on Plaintiff and
deemed the matters admitted. The Court also granted Metro’s request for
sanctions and ordered Plaintiff to pay Metro $500.00 by October 11, 2024. 
On
October 3, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to requests for production and ordered Plaintiff to serve verified
code-compliant responses to the requests for production without objections and
to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other
things requested without objections by November 4, 2024. 
On
November 6, 2024, Rafii & Associates, P.C., filed a motion to be relieved
as counsel for Plaintiff.  The motion was
set for hearing on December 30, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 23, 2025.
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Rafii & Associates, P.C., asks to be
relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: 
“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may
be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as
follows: 
1.             
“Upon the consent
of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 
2.             
“Upon the order
of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice
from one to the other.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,
electronic service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel
has filed and served the required paperwork and provided the necessary
information to support the motion to be relieved as counsel.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Michann Denise
Meadows filed by Rafii & Associates, P.C. 
Counsel will be relieved upon filing proof of service on Plaintiff Michann
Denise Meadows of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053). 
Plaintiff’s
counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.