 Case Number:  23STCV22637    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Miyoshi Umeki Dorsey (“Dorsey”) and Stephanie
Rouse (“Rouse”) filed this action against Defendants Jun Chen (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
March 28, 2024, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
August 23, 2024, Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company (“Blue Hill”) filed a
motion for leave to intervene.  The
motion was set for hearing on October 2, 2024. 
The Court continued the hearing to November 20, 2024. 
On
November 20, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling, continued the hearing
to December 30, 2024, and ordered Blue Hill to file a proposed answer-in-intervention. 
On
December 23, 2024, Dorsey and Rouse (“Plaintiffs”) filed an opposition to Blue
Hill’s motion for leave to intervene. 
Also
on December 23, 2024, Blue Hill filed a proposed answer-in-intervention. 
Trial
is scheduled for March 18, 2025. 
PROPOSED INTERVENOR’S
REQUEST 
Blue
Hill asks the Court for leave to intervene on behalf of Defendant, Blue Hill’s
insured. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387 provides in part: 
“(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to
intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include
a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and
set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests. 
“(d) (1) The court shall, upon timely application,
permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the
following conditions is satisfied: 
“(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right
to intervene. 
“(B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties. 
“(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. 
“(e) If leave to intervene is granted by the court,
the intervenor shall do both of the following: 
“(1) Separately file the complaint in intervention,
answer in intervention, or both. 
“(2) Serve a copy of the order, or notice of the
court’s decision or order, granting leave to intervene and the pleadings in
intervention as follows: 
“(A) A party to the action or proceeding who has not
yet appeared shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant
to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part
2. 
“(B) A party who has appeared in the action or
proceeding, whether represented by an attorney or not represented by an
attorney, shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to
Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2,
or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title
14 of Part 2.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387,
subds. (c), (d), (e).) 
DISCUSSION 
Blue
Hill asserts that Defendant has stopped responding to his counsel and to Blue
Hill. As Defendant’s insurer, Blue Hill may be obligated to pay any judgment
against Defendant, giving Blue Hill the right to intervene to protect its own
interests. 
Despite
filing an opposition, Plaintiffs do not oppose Blue Hill’s motion to
intervene.  Instead, they argue that “allowing
[Blue Hill] to intervene should not have any impact on how the court rules on
Plaintiff’s discovery motions which they intend to file against [Defendant].”  (Opposition p. 1.)  The Court does not address whether or how Blue
Hill’s intervention affects Plaintiffs’ pending discovery motions because the
issue is not currently before the Court. 
Blue
Hill has satisfied the requirements for intervention.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company’s motion for leave to
intervene.  The Court orders Blue Hill
Special Insurance Company to comply with the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
section 387, subdivision (e). 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.