 Case Number:  23BBCV02621    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

MOTIONS
TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02621

 



MP:  


Sujith Thomas (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Jose Melgar (Defendant) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sujith Thomas (Plaintiff) brings this action
against Jose Melgar (Defendant) for claims
arising out of an alleged October 11, 2022 motor vehicle incident. Plaintiff
alleges he was injured by virtue of Defendant’s negligent operation of a motor
vehicle on the I-5 Freeway near Burbank. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to deem matters in his Request for
Admissions (RFA) admitted, by virtue of Defendant’s nonresponse. Defendant has
filed no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
No opposition was filed.  Failure
to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence
that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Deem RFA Matters
Admitted  
 
On March
27, 2024, Plaintiff served his RFA on Defendant via email to Defendant’s
counsel. (Rashtian Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Discovery responses were due on
April 26, 2024 but Plaintiff received no responses. (Rashtian Decl. ¶ 5.) On
May 2 and May 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent two emails to Defendant’s
counsel requesting responses to the RFA. (Rashtian Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) As
of the filing of this motion, Defendant has received no responses. (Rashtian
Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s unopposed motion to deem RFA matters admitted
is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions

 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission responses
necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff requests no sanctions in connection with the three motions to compel.
The Court notes that sanctions are mandatory where a party’s failure to timely
respond to RFA necessitates a motion to compel as per C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).  Accordingly, the Court declines to grant
sanctions.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Sujith Thomas’s Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on July 12, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS
GRANTED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 