 Case Number:  23BBCV00532    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

RULING AFTER
HEARING
JULY 12, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00532

 



MP:  


Rima Shafrazian, Gevik
  Shafrazian, and Greta Shafrazian
  (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Natalie Gold, Inc dba
  Burbank Tower Pharmacy & Karina Nazarian (Defendants) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rima
Shafrazian, Gevik Shafrazian, and Greta Shafrazian, individually and as successor
in interest of the estate of Joseph Shafrazian (Decedent) (collectively
Plaintiffs) bring this action against, WellRx, Inc., dba Wellness Lab, Artin Aghakhani, Jivan Melikian,
M.D., Arsen Hovanesyan M.D., Natalie
Gold, Inc., dba Burbank Tower Pharmacy (Gold), Karina Nazarian (Nazarian), Aram
Manoukian, and Linda Nguyen (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs allege the
negligence of Defendants in delivering Decedent’s prescriptions for a heart
condition, ultimately resulting in his death. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion by Plaintiffs to compel Defendants Gold and Nazarian to
provide initial responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories (Set Five),
and Requests for Production (RFPD) (Sets Three and Four). Although it is not mentioned
in Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion, Plaintiffs also request an order compelling
Gold to produce former employees Rose Bogosian and Silva Issakhanian for
deposition. Nazarian and Gold oppose
the motion and Plaintiffs reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents,
the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300, (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline of Relevant Discovery Demands 
 
·        
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiffs served their Special
Interrogatories Set Five on Gold. Also on February 9, 2024, Plaintiffs served their
RFPD Set Three on Gold. (Vaage Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
·        
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiffs served their RFPD Set Four
on Gold. (Vaage Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
·        
Also on February 23, 2024, Plaintiffs served their RFPD Set
Three on Nazarian. (Vaage Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
·        
On February 22, 2024, plaintiffs served a Notice of
Deposition of Rosie Bogosian set for March 20, 2024, to all of the parties.
(Vaage Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
·        
On February 23, 2024, plaintiffs served a Notice of
Deposition of Silva Issakhanian set for March 19, 2024, to all of the parties.
(Vaage Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
From
February 22, 2024 to March 15, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel attempted to meet and
confer via email with counsel for Natalie Gold on four separate occasions.
(Vaage Decl. ¶¶ 11-15.) These emails received no response. (Id.) 
 
On
March 25, 2024, counsel for Gold and Nazarian responded that they were
experiencing difficulty in obtaining discovery responses from their client due
to her caring for her ill father. (Li Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) On April 30, 2024,
Nazarian and Gold served their untimely responses to Plaintiffs’ RFPD. (Li
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) On June 4, 2024, the deposition of Rose Bogosian went
forward. (Li Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states they have no way of
contacting former Burbank Tower Pharmacy employee Silva Issakhanian. (Li Decl.
¶ 10.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiffs’ motion to compel initial responses to their RFPD
is mooted by the April 30, 2024 responses. Plaintiffs’ argument in reply that
the production was not complete is not persuasive on this point. Plaintiffs maintain
that no phone records were produced in response to RFPD Nos. 39 and 40. (Reply
p. 3.) The response to these RFPD is reproduced below: 
 
Responding party
cannot comply. After diligent search and reasonable inquiry, responding party
is not in possession, custody or control of the items requested. Responding
party is in the process of obtaining the phone records from the pharmacy’s
phone carrier in the relevant time period and will produce those records with
relevant redactions based on the rights of privacy of third parties.
 
Plaintiffs
state in their reply that they have received no phone records and that counsel
for Nazarian and Natalie Gold did not issue the referenced subpoena until June
5, 2024. (Reply. p.5.) Plaintiffs additionally state that this subpoena was
incorrectly served upon their counsel, as it was mailed to a previous address.
(Id.) The Court notes that Plaintiffs present no arguments as to why the
other responses rendered are insufficient. 
 
Whether
or not the RFPD responses are sufficient is not a consideration in a motion to
compel initial discovery responses. A motion brought pursuant to C.C.P. §
2031.300 concerns only the issuance of an initial code compliant response.
Compulsion of further responses, in this case the subpoenaed phone records, is
the subject of a motion to compel further responses. Such a motion is not
before the Court presently and requires the submission of a separate statement,
which was not done here. 
 
As
such, for the purposes of this motion the Court is only concerned with whether
initial responses to each demand remain to be compelled. It is apparent from
the responses attached as Exhibit B that initial responses were already
rendered, and this motion is moot save for the issue of sanctions. 
 
With
respect to the depositions Plaintiffs seek to compel, the Court notes that
compelling a deposition is ordinarily an entirely separate motion from one
compelling initial discovery responses. Such motions are governed by C.C.P.§
2025.450. Although this code section and the depositions are not mentioned in
Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion, the Court will address them accordingly. 
 
As
concerns the deposition of Rose Bogosian, it appears this request is also moot.
Counsel for Nazarian and Gold represented that the deposition went forward, and
Plaintiffs make no mentions of either deposition in their reply. As concerns
the deposition of Silva Issakhanian, the Court finds no good cause exists to
compel Gold to produce this deponent. A deposition notice is not sufficient to
require the attendance at a deposition of a former employee. Rather, to secure
the attendance and testimony of a former employee, a party must serve the
deponent with a deposition subpoena. (C.C.P. § 2025.280 (b).) While Gold may
have produced former employees for deposition in the past, it appears this was
out of courtesy and not statutory obligation. As such, the request to compel
Gold to produce Silva Issakhanian is denied. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only requires
sanctions in the event that a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response. (C.C.P. §§ 2031.300(c).) As such, any other monetary
sanctions granted are within the discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P.
§ 2023.030(a). 
 
Here,
Plaintiffs’ motion was ultimately rendered moot as a result of subsequent
production. Regardless, the fact remains that it was Plaintiffs’ filing of this
motion that resulted in this production taking place. Further, this is the
second such time a motion to compel of this sort has been necessitated by
Nazarian and Gold’s unresponsiveness. 
 
Plaintiffs request total sanctions in the amount
of $3,060. This amount is based on a total of 2.5 hours of attorney work at a
stated rate of $1,200 per hour, plus the associated filing fees. (Vaage Decl.
¶ 20.) This amount is incongruent with the Court’s experience with similar
motions. As such, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,310 (2.5 hours
at $500 per hour plus $60 filing fee). In the Court’s estimation this amount is
sufficient to compensate Plaintiffs in bringing this motion. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Rima
Shafrazian, Gevik Shafrazian, and Greta Shafrazian’s Motion to Compel Discovery came
on regularly for hearing on July 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court took the matter under
submission and issues this revised ruling as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES AS TO NATALIE
GOLD, INC., DBA BURBANK TOWER PHARMACY AND KARINA NAZARIAN IS MOOT.
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITIONS OF ROSE
BOGOSIAN AND SILVA ISSAKHANIAN IS DENIED. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED FOR PLAINTIFFS JOINTLY
AND SEVERALLY AGAINST DEFENDANTS NAZARIAN AND GOLD IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,310.  SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 