  Case Number:  22BBCV01306    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01306

 



MP: 


James and Annette
  Volken (Cross-Defendants) 




RP:  


Kristina Hoekstra,
  In Action Realtors, Bradley Korb, Limo Matalan, and Resonant Services Group,
  Inc. [No Opposition Rendered]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
James
and Annette Volken (the Volkens) move to consolidate two related cases being
heard within this trial Court department. The Volkens are party to the
following actions pending in this Court: 
 
Case No: 22BBCV01306
styled Kristina Vardazaryan Hoekstra v. In Action Realtors Inc. dba Brad
Korb Real Estate Group et al. The Volkens were named as Cross-Defendants in
this action by a Cross-Complaint filed by In Action Realtors, Inc. dba Brad
Korb Real Estate Group (In Action). 
 
Case No: 24NNCV00856
styled Kristina Vardazaryan Hoekstra v. Annette Volken et al. The
Volkens were named as Defendants in the Complaint filed by Kristina Hoekstra
(Plaintiff). 
 
Both
these actions arise from a real estate purchase agreement and a buyer/broker
agreement concerning the sale of 10024 McBroom St, Sunland, CA 91040 from the
Volkens to Plaintiff. Both the Volkens and Plaintiff utilized In Action as the
agency handling the transaction. Bradley Korb (Korb) operated as the agent for
the Volkens and Limor Matalon (Matalon) operated as the agent for Plaintiff. 
 
The
Court notes that no party in either case has objected to consolidation.
Additionally, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” (C.C.P. § 1048(a).) 
 
The
decision to consolidate is entirely within the Court’s discretion. (See Todd-Stenberg
v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.) Thus,
“it is possible that actions may be thoroughly ‘related’ in the sense of having
common questions of law or fact, and still not be ‘consolidated,’ if the trial
court, in the sound exercise of its discretion, chooses not to do so.” (Askew
v. Askew (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 942, 964.)
 
A
motion to consolidate must satisfy the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.350(a), which provides in relevant part:
 
1)     
A notice of motion to consolidate must:
 
A)   
List all named parties in each case, the names of those who
have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;
 
B)   
Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and
 
C)   
Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated.
 
2)     
The motion to consolidate:
 
A)   
Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining
the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case;
 
B)   
Must be served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented
parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and
 
C)   
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.
 
Failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties'
acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
Court finds that the Volken’s motion complies with the requirements of Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.350. The Volkens list the parties named in each case,
their associated counsel, and whether that counsel has appeared in their
respective case. (See Mot. p. 2-3.) Further, the captions for both cases are
correctly ordered and notice of this motion was filed in each. Lastly, each of
the parties was served with notice of this motion via email to their counsel as
reflected in the attached proof of service. (Mot. p. 15.) 
 
The
Court is also satisfied that there exist common questions of law and fact
indicating that consolidation of the two actions is appropriate. Given that
both actions concern the same real estate transaction, it follows that there
would be common questions linking Plaintiff’s claims against the Volken’s for
breach of contract with In Action’s crossclaim against the Volkens for
indemnity. The gravamen of both actions is that a defective condition of the
property was not properly disclosed to Plaintiff’s during the transaction. (See
22BBCV01306 Compl. ¶ 13, 24NNCV00856 Compl. ¶ 13.) As such, it is not
difficult to see how these cases will overlap in several regards including
trial testimony, evidence, and the presentation of witnesses. It is also not difficult
to imagine a scenario in which these two cases are presented to different
juries resulting in conflicting verdicts. In essence, this appears a very clear
case where consolidation of the cases would prevent the unnecessary expenditure
of resources both by the parties and the Court. 
 
Finally,
no party has filed an opposition to the proposed motion.  Failure to file an opposition to the motion
indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. (CRC
Rule 8.54(c).)
 
In
short, the Court finds the prerequisites to consolidation are satisfied. No
party has opposed this motion and Plaintiff has specifically filed a notice of
non-opposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c) [A failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed acquiescence to the merits of the motion.].) 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to consolidate is GRANTED. The Court orders the following cases
consolidated for all purposes: 22BBCV01306 and 24NNCV00856, with 22BBCV01306 as
the lead case. 
 
This
order is to be filed in each case. All documents filed in the consolidated
cases after the date of this order must include the caption and case number of
the lead case, 22BBCV01306, followed by the case numbers of all the other
consolidated cases. (Rule 3.350(d).) Any future hearing dates in the non-lead
case are advanced and taken off calendar.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jamie and Allen
Volken’s Motion to Consolidate came on regularly for
hearing on July 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE IS GRANTED. 
 
THE
COURT ORDERS THE FOLLOWING CASES 22BBCV01306 AND 24NNCV00856 CONSOLIDATED FOR
ALL PURPOSES. 
 
THIS
ORDER IS TO BE FILED IN EACH CASE. 
 
ALL
DOCUMENTS FILED IN THE CONSOLIDATED CASES AFTER THE DATE OF THIS ORDER MUST
INCLUDE THE CAPTION AND CASE NUMBER OF THE LEAD CASE, 22BBCV01306, FOLLOWED BY
THE CASE NUMBERS OF ALL THE OTHER CONSOLIDATED CASES. 
 
ANY
FUTURE HEARING DATES IN THE NON-LEAD CASE ARE ADVANCED AND TAKEN OFF CALENDAR.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, ANNETTE VOLKEN TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 