 Case Number:  23BBCV03035    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

MOTIONS
TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV03035

 



MP:  


Mariam Pananyan (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Elvis Keshishyan, Apex Home Loans,
  LLC, & ESA Investment Group, LLC (Defendants) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Mariam Pananyan
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Vernal Equinox, LTD, Morteza Bharloo, Lori
Cresswell, Elvis Keshishyan (Keshishyan), Apex
Home Loans, LLC (Apex), & ESA Investment Group, LLC (ESA) (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that Defendants secured a fraudulent home loan
against the property located at 6239 Riverton Ave., North Hollywood, CA 91606.
Plaintiff further alleges that she has resided at the Riverton address since
2004 and that she only became aware of the fraudulent loan after an “NOD and
Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust” was recorded against the property.  
 
Plaintiff now moves to deem admitted matters in her Request
for Admissions (RFA), issued to Apex, Keshishyan, and ESA (hereinafter Apex
Defendants). Plaintiff argues that she has received no response to the RFA
after several months have passed since they were served. Apex Defendants oppose
the motion, arguing that the RFA for Apex Defendants were served on Keshishyan
who did not have counsel at the time and did not understand the RFA. Apex
Defendants also state that they have since served responses to the RFA in
substantial compliance such that this motion is moot. Plaintiff replies,
arguing that the responses of Apex Defendants are not in substantial compliance
because they consist entirely of objections.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Deem RFA Matters
Admitted  
 
On
February 14, 2024, Plaintiff caused her RFA to be served on Apex Defendants.
(Nigoghosian Decl. ¶ 2.) The proof of service for the RFA for Apex,
Keshishyan, and ESA all reflect that the requests were served on Keshishyan.
(Nigoghosian Decl. Exh. A.) Keshishyan is listed as Defendant in pro per and is
also listed as the agent for service of process for both Apex and ESA. (Id.)
It appears that the RFA were served on Keshishyan via personal service and via
mail. (Id.) Apex Defendants’ responses were due on March 15, 2024.
(Nigoghosian Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s motions state that Plaintiff received
no response to the RFA. (Nigoghosian Decl.¶ 3.)
 
Apex
Defendants argue in opposition that the RFA were improperly served. (Opp. p. 3
at 10.) Apex Defendants do not expand on this argument or cite to any authority
in support of it. It appears to the Court that service of the RFA was proper.
Keshishyan does not dispute that he was representing himself at the time the requests
were personally served on him. As Keshishyan was agent for service of process
for both ESA and Apex, service on those entities appears proper as well. 
 
Apex
Defendants also argue that Keshishyan did not understand the nature of the RFA
and should thus be excused from his nonresponse. The Court notes that the
statute governing this motion, C.C.P. § 2033.280, provides no such form of
relief. The statute is clear that a motion to deem RFA matters admitted based
on nonresponse must be granted unless the responding party serves
responses that are substantially code compliant before the hearing of the
motion. Apex Defendants arguments speak to a motion for relief from waiver
which is not before the Court. 
 
As
concerns Apex Defendants’ late responses, the Court finds them to not be
substantially compliant. Apex Defendants state they retained counsel in this matter
on May 24, 2024. (Samson Decl. ¶ 3.) On May 28, 2024, Apex Defendants
served their verified responses to the RFA. (Samson Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A.) Plaintiff
argues that these responses are not in substantial compliance as every response
is either (1) an insufficient statement that Apex Defendants lack the knowledge
to respond, or (2) an improper objection based on Keshishyan’s Fifth Amendment
rights under the U.S. Constitution.  
 
C.C.P. § 2033.220
(c) requires that a party who claims lack of information must also state that a
reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been
made and that the information known or readily available is insufficient to
enable the party to admit the matter. None of Apex Defendants’ responses
claiming a lack of knowledge contain any statement about a reasonable inquiry. Despite
this error, the Court finds that these responses are substantially code
compliant. Substantial compliance means actual compliance in respect to the
substance essential to every reasonable objective of the statute, and where
there is compliance as to all matters of substance technical deviations are not
to be given the stature of noncompliance. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 779.) While Apex Defendants should have included the
statement that a reasonable inquiry was made, their current responses are compliant
with the substance of C.C.P. § 2033.220(b)(3). 
 
As
concerns the Fifth Amendment objections, these are not substantially code
compliant. Initially we must address any claim of a Fifth Amendment privilege Apex
or ESA. The legal entities do not have a privilege against
self-incrimination.  (Bellis v United
States (1974) 417 US 85,90 [The Supreme Court has consistently held that
the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination is limited to protective
only the natural individual; Clancy v. Superior Court (1985) 39 Cal. 3d
740; Avant! Corporation v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 883
["[U]nlike private individuals, corporations have no privilege against
self-incrimination"]).  As such, and
objections on these grounds as to Apex and ESA are not legally sound.
 
In
arguing that the responses are not substantially compliant, Plaintiff correctly
points out that C.C.P. § 2033.280(a)
provides that a party who has failed to timely respond to RFA is deemed to have
waived all objections. The only relief from this waiver is found in C.C.P. §
2033.280(a)(1) which provides that the Court may grant relief upon noticed
motion demonstrating substantial compliance and that the failure to respond was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Apex Defendants have
not sought relief from their waiver by virtue of noticed motion pursuant to
C.C.P. § 2033.280(a). As the Court has not granted Apex Defendants relief from
their waiver, the service of responses consisting largely of objections is not
substantially code compliant. 
 
On
balance the Court finds that Apex Defendants’ responses to the RFA were not
substantially code compliant. Even though some of the responses claiming lack
of knowledge are compliant, the vast majority of the responses consist of
procedurally improper objections. (See St. Mary supra, 223 Cal.App.4th
at 780 [“We find no authority for this piecemeal approach to adjudicating a
tardy, proposed RFA response filed by a responding party prior to the hearing
on a deemed admitted motion… [T]he court [must] evaluate qualitatively the
proposed response to RFAs in toto to determine whether it substantially
complies with the code.”].)
 
Accordingly,
with the exception of questions to which responding party invoked a Fifth
Amendment privilege for Keshishian as an individual, answers to which Plaintiff’s
motions to deem RFA matters admitted are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission responses
necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff requests total sanctions in the amount of $3,734.52. This amount is
based on a total of six hours of attorney work at a stated rate of $600 per hour,
plus the associated filing fees. (Nigoghosian Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court agrees
with the defense that the primary basis for filing to timely comply was
defendant’s pro per status.  He also has
a concurrent police investigation which may implicate him and as such despite
waiting two months to hire counsel for this case, the Court finds that sanctions
would be unwarranted. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Mariam Pananyan’s Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on July 12, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS
GRANTED, WITH THE EXCEPTION TO RESPONSES IN WHICH RESPONDING PARTY INVOKED
FIFTH AMENDMENT PRIVILEGE FOR KESHISHIAN. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
June 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 