 Case Number:  23BBCV01231    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01231

 



MP:  


Victoria Farrington, Angel
  Shelburne, John Shelburne, and Kathryn Avila
  (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


NBCUniversal, LLC & NBCUniversal
  Media, LLC (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Victoria Farrington (Farrington), by and through her successors in interest,
Angel Shelburne, Angel Shelburne, John Shelburne, and Kathryn Avila
(collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against NBCUniversal, LLC
& NBCUniversal Media, LLC (Defendants). Plaintiffs allege Farrington was
injured while visiting Universal Studios, a theme park owned by Defendants, and
that these injuries led to her eventual death. 
 
On March 8, 2024, the
Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. The Court granted Plaintiffs leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs
subsequently filed their Second Amended Complaint (SAC) containing three causes
of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, and (3)
Wrongful Death.   
 
Defendants now
demurrer once again to the cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act, arguing that Plaintiffs’ factual allegations upon amendment remain insufficient.
Defendants also move to strike various portions of Plaintiffs’ prayer for
relief. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Motions to strike are
used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by
demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435,
436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading
is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made
under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).)
Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the
claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim.
(C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also
“[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. §
436 (b).)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike.
Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Ward
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Alleged Facts 
 
Plaintiffs allege
that Farrington, a wheelchair bound resident of Utah, was visiting Universal
Studios during a trip to Los Angeles on June 17, 2021. (SAC ¶¶ 2, 11.)
Farrington was a paid guest at Universal Studios and was attempting to access
the “lower lot” of the theme park. (SAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that the
elevator was the only means by which she could access the lower lot. (SAC
¶ 11.) An unnamed Universal Studios employee advised Farrington a there
was a 90-minute wait to use the elevator. (SAC ¶ 11.) 
 
Plaintiffs now allege
that elevator access was available to all park guests, not just those with
disabilities. (SAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff has also added allegations that
Defendants did not allow Farrington to skip to the front of the line for the
elevator to make accommodations for her disability. (SAC ¶ 11.) 
 
The SAC then alleges
an unnamed Universal Studios employee directed Farrington to an escalator which
could be used to access the lower lot. (SAC ¶ 11.) It remains unclear if
these actions were by the same or different employees. Plaintiffs allege that Farrington
attempted to use the escalator with assistance of a family member but fell and
sustained injury. (SAC ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs finally allege that Farrington’s health
deteriorated due to her sustained injuries, and she passed away in February of
2022. (SAC ¶ 13.)
 
Second COA – Unruh Violations 
 
To state a cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act (hereinafter Unruh), a plaintiff must show that: (1) defendant
denied, aided or incited a denial of or discriminated against plaintiff with
respect to full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges,
or services; (2) the substantial motivating reason for defendant's conduct was
due to its perception of an actionable characteristic; (3) the actionable
characteristic was a substantial motivating reason for defendant's conduct; and
(4) defendant was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No.
3060.) Importantly, "[a] plaintiff who establishes a violation of the ADA
… need not prove intentional discrimination in order to obtain damages under
section 52." (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661, 665.)
On the other hand, a plaintiff establishing an Unruh violation that is not also
an ADA violation must nevertheless establish that the discrimination was
intentional. (Harris v. Capital Growth Investors XIV (1991) 52 Cal.3d
1142, 1172.)
 
Plaintiffs have amended their pleading to now include
allegations that because the elevator was accessible by able bodied persons,
the 90-minute wait constitutes a denial of accommodation within the meaning of
Unruh. Plaintiffs’ opposition primarily relies on Galvan v. Walt Disney
Parks & Resorts, U.S., Inc., 425 F. Supp. 3d 1234 (C.D. Cal. 2019). Plaintiffs
concede that the Galvan court found no Unruh violation had occurred in
that case, but they insist that case is instructive in deciding this demurrer. 
 
The Court first notes that because Galvan is a
Federal District Court decision, it does not serve as binding precedent on this
Court. Regardless, the Court finds there is a dearth of relevant state
court decisions concerning Unruh and access to theme parks specifically. As
such, the Court finds an analysis of Galvan to be helpful.  
 
In Galvan plaintiffs alleged Disneyland violated
Unruh by refusing to issue them passes under Disneyland’s “Disability Access
Program” (DAS). (Galvan supra, 425 F. Supp. 3d at 1237.) Plaintiffs
specifically challenged the DAS program as violative of Unruh in contrast to
Disneyland’s previous “Guest Assistance Card” (GAC) system. (Id.) The
GAC system previously offered disabled guests a means by which to skip waiting
in line for attractions but was discontinued due to widespread fraud and abuse.
(Id.) The DAS system was intended to provide accommodation for guests
who suffered a disability which prevented them from waiting in line and
Disneyland maintained that requiring a wheelchair for mobility was not such a
disability. (Id.) 
 
The court in Galvan found that Plaintiffs could not
demonstrate that their “back disability and diagnosed anxiety disorder” were
disabilities within the meaning of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA.) (Id.
at 1240.) The court further found that even had plaintiffs demonstrated a
disability, their requested accommodation would still fundamentally alter the
theme park experience in a way that was not permissible. (Id. at 1241 citing
42 USC§ 12182(b)(2)(A)(ii) [“Assuming arguendo that Galvan had shown he has a
disability cognizable by the ADA, his disability discrimination claim cannot
prevail if “the entity,” or the public accommodation at-issue, “can demonstrate
that making such modifications would fundamentally alter the nature of such
goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or accommodations.”].) Further,
the court found that plaintiffs had not demonstrated that a reasonable
modification was necessary to allow them access to Disneyland. (Id. at
1243 citing 42 U.S.C. § 12182(2)(A)(ii).) The Court found that plaintiffs’
request for priority ride access was not necessary within the meaning of Title
III because Disneyland’s offer of a wheelchair as a mobility aid was sufficient
to cure plaintiff’s alleged lack of access. (Id. at 1244.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the reasoning applied by the Galvan
court should produce a different result in the instant case. Plaintiffs
argue that although Farrington’s access to the elevator was equal, the fact
that able bodied persons were allowed to use the elevator meant that she lacked
equal access to the lower lot. The Court disagrees. 
 
Plaintiffs’ allegations in the SAC make clear that
Defendants have measures in place to accommodate guests with disabilities in
reaching the lower lot. That Plaintiffs now allege that able bodied guests were
allowed to use the elevator does little to change the situation. Applying the
logic of Galvan, as Plaintiffs urge the Court to do, the allegations in
the SAC remain insufficient. Plaintiffs do not allege any way in which allowing
Farrington to skip the line for the elevator was necessary to remedy her lack
of access to the lower lot. 
 
Further, in contrast to Galvan, there is no allegation
that Farrington was denied access. The plaintiffs in Galvan claimed full
denial of access because their disabilities allegedly prevented them from
waiting in lines for theme park attractions. The Galvan plaintiffs argued
that Disneyland’s refusal to give them priority access constituted a denial
because they otherwise could not gain access to the attractions. Here,
Plaintiffs only allege that Farrington was denied access by virtue of the
90-minute wait to use the elevator. Plaintiffs do not allege that Farrington suffered
from a disability which precluded her from waiting those 90 minutes such that
her access to the lower lot was denied. 
 
Plaintiffs also do not allege that this wait came about by
any explicit directive of Defendants, only that it resulted from use of the elevator
provided by able bodied persons. Whereas the denial of priority access in Galvan
was a direct decision of Disneyland, here the 90-minute wait appears to be
the result of circumstance. Plaintiff still cites to no authority that accommodations
must be made within a certain time frame, lest it be considered discriminatory.
As currently pled, the Court finds no denial of accommodation or discrimination
is alleged. 
 
In short, the Court
maintains that Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts to support their
cause of action for violation of Unruh. Plaintiffs’ allegation that Farrington
was required to wait 90-minutes to gain access to the lower lot is not akin to
a denial of accommodations. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. The
Court denies leave to amend given that Plaintiffs have now failed to remedy the
deficiencies of their pleadings on two occasions. The Court finds that there is
no reasonable probability that further amendment would cure these deficiencies.

 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to
strike the following portions of Plaintiffs’ SAC: 
 
1.     
Page 9, paragraph 1,
lines 14-17: “That this Court award statutory damages under the Unruh Civil
Rights Act (Civil Code § 52(a)) to Plaintiffs, in the amount of at least $4,000
per day, according to proof, and that these damages be trebled according to
statute;” 
 
2.     
Page 9, paragraph 2,
lines 18-20: “That this Court award attorneys’ fees, litigation expenses and
costs of suit, pursuant to Civ. Code § 52, and C.C.P. § 1021.5;” and 
 
3.     
Page 9, paragraph 7,
line 27: “For all statutorily allowed damages;”
 
Defendants argue that
because Plaintiffs fail to state a cause of action for violation of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act, they have no remaining statutory causes of action upon which
they may recover. The Court agrees. Having sustained the demurrer to the second
cause of action without leave to amend, it appears there are no causes of
action from which Plaintiffs can recover statutory damages. Accordingly, the motion
to strike paragraphs one and three of the prayer for relief is GRANTED without
leave to amend. 
 
As concerns the
motion to strike recovery of attorney’s fees under C.C.P. § 1021.5, such a
motion based on a plaintiffs’ failure to adequately plead their basis is
properly denied because there is no requirement that the intent to seek C.C.P.
§ 1021.5 attorney’s fees be pled in the underlying action. (Snatchko v.
Westfield LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 469, 497, citing Washburn v. City
of Berkeley (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 578, 583.) Such fees “are not part of the
underlying cause of action but are incidents to the cause and are properly
awarded after entry of a … judgment.” (Id.) In fact, in Snatchko
the Court of Appeal found it was error for the trial court to strike C.C.P. §
1021.5 attorneys fee provision based on a failure to adequately plead their
basis.  (Id.)
 
Without the claim for
violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, the Court finds it is unlikely that
Plaintiffs could demonstrate “enforcement of an important right affecting the
public interest” on the basis of her negligence action alone. Regardless, such
a determination is not appropriate on a motion to strike. Accordingly, the
motion to strike paragraph two of the prayer for relief is DENIED.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
NBCUniversal, LLC
& NBCUniversal Media, LLC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on July 12, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED IN PART AND
DENIED IN PART. THE MOTION TO STRIKE
IS GRANTED AS TO PARAGRAPHS ONE AND THREE OF THE PRAYER FOR RELIEF WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED AS TO PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE PRAYER
FOR RELIEF. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT NBC
UNIVERSAL, LLC TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 