 Case Number:  23BBCV01852    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01852

 



MP:  


Victoria Abdo (Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant) 




RP:  


Mark Towhidlow (Defendant/Cross-Complainant, No Response
  Rendered) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Victoria
Abdo (Abdo) brings this action against Mark Towhidlow (Towhidlow). Abdo seeks
specific performance of an agreement between herself and Towhidlow for the
transfer of the real property commonly known as 1751 Camino De Villas, Burbank,
CA 91501. (Compl. ¶ 7.) Abdo alleges that Towhidlow refused to honor the
terms of a June 9, 2023 agreement for the property in exchange for $1,150,000,
despite Abdo’s posting escrow.  (Compl.
¶¶ 8-9.) Abdo further alleges that Towhidlow thereafter sent cancellation
of escrow instructions. (Compl. ¶ 10.) 
 
On
September 13, 2023, Towhidlow filed a Cross-Complaint against Abdo, Dona T.
Abdo, Ramona Nazarimasihi, and High Vision Realty. The Cross-Complaint states a
cause of action for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (as against High Vision
Reality and Ramona Nazarimasihi) and (2) Fraud (as against all Cross-Defendants).

 
Before
the Court is a demurrer brought by Abdo as to the second cause of action for
Fraud. Abdo demurs to this cause of action on grounds that it fails to state
sufficient facts, is uncertain, and is generally a sham. Towhidlow has rendered
no opposition to this demurrer. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion to Compel
Initial Discovery Responses 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(a).)
 
Failure to Oppose
 
The Court notes that no
opposition has been filed.  Failure to
file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that
the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Demurrer
 
As a preliminary
matter, the Court addresses the meet and confer efforts of the parties. C.C.P.
§§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike.
Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Windust
Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) 
 
Concerning
the demurrer to the second cause of action for Fraud, the Court finds the facts
alleged are insufficiently particular. The Cross-Complaint in this matter is
short and contains a singular reference to Abdo. The entirety of the factual
allegations for the Fraud Cause of Action is as follows: 
 
Cross-Complainant
alleges that Cross-Defendant, High Vision Realty and Ramona Nazarimasihi
breached their fiduciary duties, conspired with Cross Defendants, Victoria Abdo
and Dona T. Abdo, to manipulate, misrepresent, and undervalued the market value
of the property in question, with the intent to facilitate the sale of said
property to Cross-Defendants Victoria Abdo and Dona T. Abdo at a price
significantly below its actual market value. (Cross-Compl. ¶ 12) 
 
The Court finds these allegations are factually deficient. 
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must
allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made. (Id.)
 
Here,
Towhidlow’s allegations of fraud against Abdo lack the requisite specificity to
sustain a fraud cause of action. Towhidlow presents no factual allegation as to
when, where, or by whom any misrepresentations were made to him. Towhidlow
instead groups all Cross-Defendants together in a singular conclusory
allegation, with no allegation as to any individual action by Abdo. As such,
Towhidlow’s Cross-Complaint is subject to demurrer for lack of specificity. 
 
Despite
the lack of factual allegations against Abdow, the Court finds that there
exists a reasonable probability that Towhidlow could remedy this deficiency
upon amendment. The Court is aware of Abdo’s contention that the
Cross-Complaint is a farce intended to delay this action, though to find as
such would require evidentiary determinations not appropriate on demurrer. The
Court finds that Towhidlow should be allowed this opportunity to amend but
cautions that successful amendment necessitates he plead specific facts as to
each Cross-Defendant’s alleged actions in perpetrating the fraud. Further
conclusory allegations regarding a conglomerate of Cross-Defendants will not
suffice. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the second cause of action for Fraud is SUSTAINED with 20 days’
leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Compel Discovery 
 
Abdo
further moves to compel Towhidlow’s initial responses to her (1) Special
Interrogatories, (2) Form Interrogatories, (3) Request for Production of
Documents (RFPD). Abdo also seeks to have matters in her Request for Admissions
(RFA) admitted. 
 
On
April 19, 2024, Abdo served all initial discovery demands on Towhidlow.
(Windust Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A.) Abdo states she received no discovery
responses as of the May 20, 2024 deadline. (Windust Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) Abdo
states that on May 21, 2024, her counsel sent a meet and confer letter to
Towhidlow’s counsel but received no response. (Windust Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. B.)
As of the filing of this motion, Abdo is still without discovery responses.
(Windust Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
The
Court notes that failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the
other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Abdo’s unopposed motion to compel initial responses to her
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED.
 
Abdo’s unopposed
motion to deem RFA matters admitted is also GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission responses
necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here, Abdo has filed
a motion to compel initial discovery responses and Towhidlow has filed no
opposition. Additionally, Abdo has shown no responses were rendered to her RFA
such that Towhidlow can avoid the mandatory sanctions imposed by C.C.P.§ 2033.280. As such, the Court grants sanctions in the
amount of $1,000. This amount reflects two hours of attorney work at a rate of
$470 per hour and the $60 filing fee. (Windust Decl. ¶ 10.) The Court
finds this amount reasonable given its experience with discovery motions of
this type and the fact that the motion was unopposed. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Victoria Abdo’s
Demurrer and Motion to Compel Initial Discovery Responses came on regularly for hearing on July 12, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER IS SUTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, AND RFPD IS GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS GRANTED. 
 
PRODUCTION
TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,000 AS AGAINST TOWHIDLOW AND HIS COUNSEL,
JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY. 
 
SANCTIONS
TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE AND OSC RE PROOF OF SERVICE AS TO CROSS-COMPLAINT ARE
ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO NOVEMBER 5, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT HML TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 