 Case Number:  23BBCV03057    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV03057

 



MP:  


Tony & Mary Anne Abraham
  (Defendants)




RP:  


Maryam Moghadam (Plaintiff) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Maryam Moghadam
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Tony and Mary Anne Abraham (collectively Defendants) for claims arising out of a rental agreement
between the parties. Plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the rental
unit was kept in substandard conditions and that she was discriminated against
on the basis of her Persian heritage.  
 
Defendants now move to compel Plaintiff’s initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff has filed no opposition to these
motions. 
 
Defendants also request $750 in sanctions be granted in
connection with each of the three motions. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
Failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties'
acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On February
16, 2024, Defendant propounded their From Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and RFPD on Plaintiff via email to Plaintiff’s counsel. (Levy
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  The Court notes
that while the declarations of Defendants’ counsel state the requests were made
on February 16, 2023, the proof of service reflects that service was indeed on
February 16, 2024. (Exh. A.) On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested
an extension to respond to discovery, through April 17, 2024. (Levy Decl.
¶ 4.) On April 23, 2024, after not receiving a timely response to any
discovery, Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer
letter giving Plaintiff until May 4, 2024, to provide responses. (Levy Decl.
¶ 5, Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s responses remain outstanding as of Defendants’
filing this motion. (Levy Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendants’ unopposed motions to compel initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Defendants have drafted and filed three motions while Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,560 as
against Plaintiff and her counsel jointly and severally. This amount reflects 6
hours of attorney work at a rate of $230 per hour, as well as the $60 filing
fee for each motion. (Levy Decl. ¶ 7.) Given the Court’s experience with
motions of this type, this sanction appears appropriate to compensate Defendants’
efforts in compelling responses. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Tony & Mary
Anne Abraham Motions to Compel Responses to
Discovery came on regularly for hearing on July 12,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEFENDANTS’
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.  FURTHER RESPONSES DUE WITHIN 30
DAYS.   
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,560
AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND HER COUNSEL JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY.  SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 