 Case Number:  23BBCV00757    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 12, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00757

 



MP:  


Brenda Armstrong (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Burbank Police Department (Third-Party
  Deponent) [No Response Rendered]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Brenda
Armstrong (Plaintiff) brings this action against John Doe in relation to an
April 21, 2021 motor vehicle incident. Plaintiff alleges she was standing
beside her parked vehicle when John Doe’s vehicle struck her vehicle and caused
her severe injury. Plaintiff alleges that John Doe thereafter fled the scene
and Plaintiff has been unable to ascertain his identity. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion to compel the Burbank Police Department’s (BPD)
compliance with a deposition subpoena issued by Plaintiff. The subpoena seeks
the police report generated in connection with the incident, as Plaintiff
believes this will allow her to learn the identity of John Doe. The BPD
declined to comply with the subpoena, citing Plaintiff’s failure to serve a
Notice to Consumer as required by C.C.P. § 1985.3. (See Exh. C.) The BPD has
rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
To
require the attendance and testimony of a non-party deponent, as well as the
production of any document or tangible thing for inspection and copying, the
party seeking discovery must serve on that non-party deponent a deposition
subpoena, pursuant C.C.P. § 2020.010, et seq. (C.C.P. §§ 2020.010(b),
2025.280(b); See also Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. National Union Fire Insurance
Company of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350 [discovery from
nonparties is governed by C.C.P. §§ 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried
out by way of subpoena].)
 
If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, the party
seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production. (C.C.P. § 2025.480(a).) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. (C.C.P. §
2025.480(i).)
 
C.C.P.
§ 1985.3(b) requires a party issuing a subpoena shall “serve or cause to be
served on the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena
duces tecum, of the affidavit supporting the issuance of the subpoena, if any,
and of the notice described in subdivision (e), and proof of service as indicated
in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).” State agencies are specifically included
in the consumer notice requirement under C.C.P., § 1985.4. (Board of
Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
1011, 1036.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff
asks that the Court issue an order compelling the BPD to produce documents
responsive to the subpoena, specifically the police report for her incident.
Although notice to the consumer is usually a prerequisite for the issuance of a
third-party subpoena, the Court finds good cause exists to waive this
requirement.  
 
The statutory
procedures set forth in C.C.P. §1985.3(b) are applicable to any subpoena
seeking “personal information” maintained by an agency that is otherwise exempt
from public disclosure. (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of
Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1036.) The term “personal
information” means any information that is maintained by an agency that
identifies or describes an individual, including, but not limited to, his or
her name, social security number, physical description, home address, home
telephone number, education, financial matters, and medical or employment
history. It includes statements made by, or attributed to, the individual. (Id.)
Contrary to the common parlance, a “consumer” under this statute means any natural
person. (C.C.P. § 1985.4.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks the police report made in connection with the April 21, 2021
incident from the BPD. The BPD is a public entity not otherwise exempt under
C.C.P. § 1985.4 and Plaintiff seeks identifying information as to John Doe through
her subpoena. As such, it appears Plaintiff’s request is one that is clearly
subject to the consumer notice requirement. 
C.C.P. § 1985.3(b) thus requires Plaintiff to serve a copy of the
subpoena upon John Doe prior to the date of production. 
 
However,
C.C.P. § 1985.3(h) provides that “Upon good cause shown and provided that the
rights of witnesses and consumers are preserved, a subpoenaing party shall be
entitled to obtain an order shortening the time for service of a subpoena duces
tecum or waiving the requirements of subdivision (b) where due diligence by the
subpoenaing party has been shown.” 
 
Here,
the Court finds that good cause exists to waive the consumer notice requirement
given the logistic impossibility of Plaintiff’s compliance. Plaintiff has
demonstrated that, despite diligent search efforts, she has been unable to
obtain the name and contact information of John Doe such that a proper consumer
notice could be served upon him. (See Yasmeh Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Further, Plaintiff’s
states that her attempts to obtain the police report by way of formal request have
been unsuccessful. (Yasmeh Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.) In short, Plaintiff has
demonstrated that despite her best efforts she has been unable to serve John
Doe with consumer notice or otherwise obtain the information she needs. As
such, the Court waives the requirements of C.C.P. § 1985.3(b).
 
The Court,
having waived the requirements of C.C.P. § 1985.3(b), finds Plaintiff’s motion meritorious.
Plaintiff appropriately complied with the remaining procedures for service of a
subpoena upon a third party under C.C.P. § 2025.240. (See Exh. B.) In addition,
the Court construes BPD’s lack of opposition to this motion as acquiesce to its
merits. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c).) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance with
her deposition subpoena served on the Burbank Police Department is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Brenda Armstrong’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena
came on regularly for hearing on July 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE COURT
FINDS GOOD CAUSE TO WAIVE THE REQUIREMENTS OF C.C.P. § 1985.3(b).  THE MOTION TO COMPEL
COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA IS GRANTED.   
 
COMPLIANCE
TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE AND OSC RE PROOF OF SERVICE ARE ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO
NOVEMBER 5, 2024, AT 9:00 AM.
 
PLAINTIFF
TO PROVIDE NOTICE.
 
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
July 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 