  Case Number:  21STCP03085    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  71 Jimmy Wang v. Junhua Chen
LASC Case. No. 21STCP03085

Junhua
Chen’s ex parte application for release of bond

 
Jonhua Chen applies ex
parte for an order releasing the bond posted by Jimmy Wang in this matter.  Mr. Chen obtained an order from the Labor
Commissioner that Jimmy Wang was pay Mr. Chen $49,109.40.  Mr. Wang appealed that order by filing this
Notice of Appeal.  In order to do so, Mr.
Wang was required to post a bond in the amount of the Labor Commissioner’s award.  Labor Code 98.2 states, in relevant part, 
“(b)  As a condition to filing an
appeal pursuant to this section, an employer shall first post an undertaking
with the reviewing court in the amount of the order, decision, or award. The
undertaking shall consist of an appeal bond issued by a licensed surety or a
cash deposit with the court in the amount of the order, decision, or award. The
employer shall provide written notification to the other parties and the Labor
Commissioner of the posting of the undertaking. The undertaking shall be on the
condition that, if any judgment is entered in favor of the employee, the
employer shall pay the amount owed pursuant to the judgment, and if the appeal
is withdrawn or dismissed without entry of judgment, the employer shall pay the
amount owed pursuant to the order, decision, or award of the Labor Commissioner
unless the parties have executed a settlement agreement for payment of some
other amount, in which case the employer shall pay the amount that the employer
is obligated to pay under the terms of the settlement agreement. If the
employer fails to pay the amount owed within 10 days of entry of the judgment,
dismissal, or withdrawal of the appeal, or the execution of a settlement
agreement, a portion of the undertaking equal to the amount owed, or the entire
undertaking if the amount owed exceeds the undertaking, is forfeited to the
employee.”
 
Under the plain language
of section 98.2, subdivision (b), if an appeal of a Labor Commissioner’s award
is dismissed and the award not paid within 10 days of the dismissal, any  undertaking equal to the amount awarded by the
Labor Commissioner “is forfeited to the employee.” Tabarrejo
v. Superior Court (2104) 232 Cal. App. 4th 849, 868.
Mr. Wang’s appeal of the Labor Commissioner’s
award was dismissed on November 21, 2023. 
Mr. Chen has declared that Mr. Wang has not since paid the Labor Commissioner’s
award.  The Court therefore finds that
Mr. Wang’s bond is forfeited to Mr. Chen and the Court orders the bond
released. 