 Case Number:  22STCV32849    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  39 Marvin Kay v.
Gregory A. Yates, et al.
Case No.
22STCV32849
Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Marvin Kay (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Gregory A. Yates; Gregory A.
Yates, P.C.; Steve Vartazarian; and the Vartazarian law Firm (collectively,
“Defendants”) asserting causes of action for breach of contract and conversion.  Defendants filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, which Plaintiff opposes.  The
Court grants the motion in part and denies the motion in part.  
 
PLAINTIFF’S ALLEGATIONS
 
            Edward
Steinrecher (“Steinrecher”) was an attorney who maintained a practice, Edward
Streinrecher, P.C. (the “practice”).  (Complaint,
¶ 1.)  Streinrecher passed away, and in
May 2019, the probate court appointed Plaintiff to be the practice
administrator for the practice. 
(Ibid.)  At the time of his death,
Steinrecher was handling a personal injury case on behalf of the plaintiff:
Anthony Miramontes v. United Parcel Services, Inc., et al., Case No. BC661807
(the “Miramontes case”).  (Complaint, ¶
10.)  Prior to his death, Steinrecher had
spent approximately 4,000 hours on the case. 
(Complaint, ¶ 13.)    
 
            Plaintiff and
Gregory A. Yates, Esq. negotiated an agreement under which Yates would handle
the Miramontes case, and Plaintiff would be paid a portion of the attorney’s
fees earned by Yates.  (Complaint, ¶ 14
& Exh. B.)  Specifically, the
agreement included “a sliding scale” up to the agreed upon value of
Steinrecher’s work, which was $4 million (based upon the 4,000 hours at a rate
of $1,000 per hour).  (Complaint, ¶¶
14-15.)  The agreement was signed by
Plaintiff and Yates on June 12 and June 13, 2019, respectively.  (Complaint, Exh. B.)  Plaintiff and Yates also executed an addendum
to this agreement on June 14, 2019. 
(Complaint, Exh. D.)  
 
            Yates then
recruited Steve Vartazarian, Esq. to work on the case.  The client—Anthony Miramontes—signed the fee
splitting agreement on August 26, 2019. 
(Complaint, Exh. E.)  Both Yates
and Vartazarian signed the fee splitting agreement under California Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.5.1, on September 4, 2019.  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff did not sign this agreement. 
(Ibid.)      
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that the Miramontes case settled, but Defendants did not pay Plaintiff
the required attorney’s fees. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 19-25.)  This
action for breach of contract and conversion followed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, but may be made after
the time to demur has expired. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion
[for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v.
Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial
notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for breach of contract.  The only parties to the contract are
Plaintiff and Yates.  Plaintiff alleges
that all of the defendants are alter egos of each other.  (See Complaint, ¶ 7.)  This allegation is sufficient to assert the
first cause of action against Yates and his practice.  Plaintiff’s theory against the Vartazarian
defendants is as follows: The fee splitting agreement between Yates and
Vartazarian incorporates Plaintiff’s agreement with Yates by reference.  (Complaint, Exh. E.)  Vartazarian agreed to do so, and therefore is
bound by the terms and conditions of the underlying agreement.  To the extent Defendants seek to argue the
interpretation of the fee splitting agreement, that must be resolved on summary
judgment, as the Court must rely on extrinsic evidence to the extent there is
any ambiguity.  (See Wolf v. Superior
Court (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1350-1351.)       
 
            Plaintiff’s
second cause of action is for conversion. 
“[T]he simple failure to pay money owed does not constitute
conversion.”  (Kim v. Westmoore
Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284.)  Therefore, the motion for judgment on the
pleadings is granted with respect to the second cause of action.  The Court denies leave to amend, as it is
clear that no amendment would be successful. 
This cause of action is nothing more than an obvious attempt to seek
treble damages and attorney’s fees on a breach of contract claim.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court denies Defendants’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings with respect to the first cause of action.
 
            2.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings with respect to the second cause of action.
 
            3.         The Court denies leave to amend, as it
is clear no amendment would be successful.
 
            4.         The Court advances and vacates the
post-mediation status conference.
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 