 Case Number:  24STCV06467    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
ALLEN MATKINS LECK GAMBLE MALLORY & NATSIS
  LLP, 


 
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.


 
 
 
 
 
24STCV06467




 
vs.
 
 
LIVWRK DFH BH, LLC, et al.,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 
[TENTATIVE] RULING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO
  ATTACH ORDER
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Plaintiff Allen Matkins
Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP moves for a right to attach order against
defendants DFH Crenshaw LLC, Pembridge Real Estate LLC, and DFH Partners LLC in
the amount of $784,035.00. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
On
August 5, 2019, defendant LivWRK LLC (“Liv LLC”), doing business as LivWRK
Holdings, and plaintiff Allen Matkins Leck Gamble
Mallory & Natsis LLP entered into a written fee agreement, whereby
plaintiff would provide legal services to LivWRK LLC. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 2 &
Ex. 1.) 
 
            Around September 1, 2020, Liv LLC and DFH Partners LLC
(“DFH Partners”) agreed to form a joint venture to acquire and develop Baldwin
Hills Crenshaw Plaza (“Crenshaw Property”). (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 3.) In furtherance
of the joint venture: (1) DFH Partners formed defendant DFH Crenshaw, LLC
(“DFH Crenshaw”); (2) Liv LLC formed defendant LivWRK BH LLC (“Liv
BH”); and (3) DFH Crenshaw and Liv BH formed defendant LivWRK DFH BH, LLC
(“Joint Venture”). (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 3.) DFH Crenshaw and Liv BH are the
sole members of the Joint Venture. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
            Around September 1, 2020, all the
named defendants purportedly requested plaintiff to represent the Joint
Venture. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 4.) No written engagement agreement was ever signed by
the Joint Venture, DFH Partners, or DFH Crenshaw. (Passalacqua Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
            From September 1, 2020 to December
20, 2020, plaintiff performed legal services in connection with the Joint
Venture. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff contends that defendants owe more than
$1 million, including the principal sum of $744,035 plus interest. (R’bibo
Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6.) Plaintiff stopped providing legal services because defendants
failed to pay legal fees. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
            After signing a purchase and sale
agreement for the Crenshaw Property, the Joint Venture deposited
$10,000,000 in escrow. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 7.) The Joint Venture later decided to
cancel their purchase of the Crenshaw Property. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 7.) Pursuant to
a settlement agreement, the Joint Venture and the seller agreed that the seller
would keep $1,250,000 of the escrow deposit, with the remaining $8,750,000 to
be returned to the Joint Venture. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
            On February 5, 2021, the two members
of the Joint Venture, Liv BH and DFH Crenshaw
(collectively “Members”), executed a First Amendment to the Operating
Agreement. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. 3 [“Amendment”].) Under the Amendment,
the Members agreed that DFH Crenshaw “shall be responsible for the liabilities
for costs and expenses incurred by the Company [i.e., Joint Venture] in connection
with the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement….” (Amendment at Recitals,
p. 2.)  In Schedule 1 attached to the
Amendment are listed “all of the expenses which the Company is alleged to have
incurred,” but the Amendment notes explicitly that inclusion of expenses in
Schedule 1 is “made for informational purposes” and “shall in no event
constitute an admission by the Company that any expense or liability set forth
on Schedule 1 is valid or an admission of the Company’s amount set forth
on Schedule 1.” (Amendment ¶ 4(a).) 
With respect to plaintiff, Schedule 1 lists “Allen Matkins” as a
“Vendor” and states “Legal” for the expense “Description.” (Amendment at
Schedule 1.)  Schedule 1 also lists the
“Cost” as $685,000 but states “Estimate need to verify” in the “Notes” column
next to it.  (Amendment at Schedule 1.) 
 
Pursuant to the
Amendment, DFH Crenshaw “assume[d] responsibility and
liability for the Company Expenses, with the exclusive obligation to pay any amounts
which are finally determined to be due and owing” by the Joint Venture. (Amendment
at ¶ 4(b).) The Amendment provided that DFH Crenshaw “at its sole cost and
expense, shall have the sole and exclusive right to negotiate with any and all
payees and claimants with respect to the Company Expenses…and to pay, not pay,
settle or litigate any such claims, in all cases in DFH’s sole and absolute
discretion….” (Amendment at ¶ 4(b).) DFH Crenshaw also agreed to indemnify and
hold Liv BH harmless for any claims for payment of Company Expenses. (Amendment
at ¶ 4(b).)
 
            Wire instructions attached to the Amendment directed the escrow
agent under the settlement agreement to pay $6,750,000 to DFH Partners and
$2,000,000 to Liv BH into an account in the name of LivWRK Jay Street Holding
LLC. (Amendment at ¶ 3 & Ex. C.) Plaintiff alleges that the transactions
under the wire instructions are voidable. (Compl. ¶¶ 21, 23.) 
 
            Between 2021 and 2024, DFH Partners changed its name to
defendant Pembridge Real Estate LLC (“Pembridge”). (Kessler Decl. ¶ 4 &
Exs. 1, 2.) 
 
II.      Applicable Law
 
            “Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the
action is brought.” (CCP § 484.010.) 
 
The application shall be executed under oath and
must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure
the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement
of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the
action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. § 101, et
seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the writ
of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that
such property is subject to attachment. (CCP § 484.020.)
 
            The
application for a writ of attachment must be supported “by an affidavit showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (CCP § 484.030.) 
 
The Court shall consider the showing made by the
parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record. (CCP § 484.090(a),
(d).) The Court shall issue a right to attach order if it finds all of the
following:
 
(1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is
one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 
(2) The plaintiff has established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.
 
(CCP § 484.090(a)(1-4).) “The Attachment Law
statutes are subject to strict construction….” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.) 
 


III.     Analysis
 
1.           
Preliminary Comments
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the operative Amended Application for Right to Attach
Order seeks a right to attach order against defendants (1) DFH Crenshaw LLC, (2)
Pembridge Real Estate LLC  (“Pembridge”),
and (3) DFH Partners LLC. With respect to DFH Partners LLC, however, plaintiff
replaced that defendant with Pembridge Real Estate LLC through the filing of
the Amendment to Complaint on June 11, 2024. DFH Partners LLC is thus no longer
a defendant in this action. The Court accordingly construes the application as
seeking attachment against only (1) DFH Crenshaw and (2) Pembridge
only. 
 
2.           
Merits
 
“[A]n
attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each
of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount
of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s
fees.”  (CCP § 483.010(a).)  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
which is secured by any interest in real property arising from agreement
….”  (CCP § 483.010(b).)  
 
            Plaintiff
contends that, around September 1, 2020, all the named defendants—including DFH
Partners (later renamed to Pembridge) and DFH Crenshaw—requested plaintiff to
provide legal services. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 4.) At the very least, DFH Crenshaw
admits to having entered into some form of agreement for plaintiff’s services
(Passalacqua Decl. ¶ 3 [“I reluctantly (and, in retrospect, mistakenly) agreed
on behalf of DFH Crenshaw to use R’bibo’s firm Allen Matkins, with which I had
no experience”], ¶ 4.) 
 
            Further,
with respect to the portions of the refunded deposit that was wired to DFH
Partners (now Pembridge) and to Liv BH (Amendment at ¶ 3 & Ex. C.), such funds are arguably attachable if
plaintiff can show that the Members of the Joint Venture—Liv BH and DFH
Crenshaw—actually intended to hinder, delay, or defraud plaintiff as their
creditor with respect to its claim on a contract. (Civ. Code §§ 3439.04(a)(1),
3439.07(a)(2), 3439.07(b) [“If a creditor has commenced an action on a claim
against the debtor, the creditor may attach the asset transferred or other
property of the transferee if the remedy of attachment is available in the
action under applicable law and the property is subject to attachment in the
hands of the transferee under applicable law”].)
 
However,
neither DFH Partners nor DFH Crenshaw nor the Joint Venture ever executed a
written engagement agreement with plaintiff for legal services. (Passalacqua
Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, even assuming that plaintiff’s claim is based on some oral
contract by DFH Partners, DFH Crenshaw, or the Joint Venture to pay plaintiff
for legal services, and that the funds to satisfy such purported contractual
obligation were fraudulently conveyed, it is not possible on plaintiff’s
current showing to determine any “fixed or readily ascertainable amount” owed
to plaintiff pursuant to that oral contract, which is required under CCP § 483.010(a).
(CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 537, 540, quoting Lewis v. Steifel (1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 648,
650 [“[T]he contract sued on must furnish a standard by which the amount due
may be clearly ascertained and there must exist a basis upon which the damages
can be determined by proof”].) Plaintiff does not provide any information
regarding the hourly fees or payment terms to which DFH Partners, DFH Crenshaw,
or the Joint Venture purportedly agreed. Plaintiff only states that all named
defendants requested plaintiff’s legal services. (R’bibo Decl. ¶ 4.)
Consequently, how much is owed to plaintiff is not readily apparent.  In this regard, the Court finds lacking plaintiff’s
reliance on its engagement letter with Liv LLC for “general business and real
estate matters”—an agreement to which none of the defendants are a party and
which was executed over a year before both the formation of the Joint Venture
or any purported agreement by defendants to engage plaintiff for legal services.  (See R’bibo Decl. ¶¶ 2-4 &
Ex. 1.)
 
In
addition, “[a] claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more
likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant
on that claim.” (CCP § 481.190.) “If the defendant opposes the
application, ‘the court must then consider the relative merits of the positions
of the respective parties and make a determination of the probable outcome of
the litigation.’ [Citations.]” (Pech v. Morgan (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
841, 855.)
 
Per the operative Complaint, plaintiff seeks to set
aside allegedly voidable transactions, including (1) the transfer of the
refunded deposit from the Joint Venture to Liv Jay Street and DFH Crenshaw
(Compl. ¶ 27), (2) the transfer from Liv Jay Street to Liv LLC and Liv BH
(Compl. ¶ 38), and (3) the transfer from DFH Crenshaw to DFH Partners
(Compl. ¶ 51). Plaintiff alleges that such transfers have left the Joint
Venture unable to pay its debts. (Compl. ¶ 21; R’bibo Decl. ¶ 10 [“As a result,
based on the language in paragraph 8(d) of the Amendment stating that the Joint
Venture was to cease operating after the Refund was disbursed and the creditors
paid, I believe that the Joint Venture has no funds and no ability to pay any
of its creditors”].) 
 
Such transfers are voidable only if they were made
“[w]ith actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud” plaintiff or “without
receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer.” (Civ.
Code §§ 3439.04(a)(1), (a)(2), 3439.05(a).) Plaintiff provides no evidence of
intent or whether or not the transferors received a reasonably equivalent value
in exchange for the transfer. (See R’bibo Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
Here, the Amendment provides that DFH Crenshaw shall
assume responsibility and liability for the Joint Venture’s expenses and shall
resolve them. (Amendment at ¶¶ 4(b), 8(d).) DFH Crenshaw has “the sole and
exclusive right to negotiate with any and all payees and claimants with respect
to the Company Expenses…and to pay, not pay, settle or litigate any such
claims, in all cases in DFH [Crenshaw]’s sole and absolute discretion….”
(Amendment at ¶ 4(b).) The Amendment provides that “the business of the [Joint
Venture] will be concluded, and thereafter the [Joint Venture] shall engage in
no further business or activities other than resolving the Company Expenses
(which, pursuant to Section 4(b) of this Amendment, shall be the obligation of
and controlled exclusively by DFH [Crenshaw]).” (Amendment at ¶ 8(d),
emphasis added.) Without more, this Court cannot conclude it is more likely
than not the transfer of the refunded deposit to DFH Crenshaw and then to DFH
Partners (now Pembridge) was a fraudulent conveyance, as opposed to the permissible
movement of funds as part of the winddown of the Joint Venture.  (See Passalacqua Decl. ¶ 11 [“[T]he
transparent purpose of directing DFH Crenshaw’s share of the earnest money
deposit refund to DFH Crenshaw, rather than to the Joint Venture was to facilitate
DFH Crenshaw’s contractual obligation to pay, settle, or litigate expense
claims in connection with [the Crenshaw Property]”.) 
 
IV.     Conclusion
 
For the foregoing reasons, plaintiff’s
application for right to attach order is DENIED. 
 