  Case Number:  23STCP00195    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
SUPPORTERS ALLIANCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
  RESPONSIBILITY, 


 
 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
23STCP00195

 



vs.
 
 
CITY OF INGLEWOOD, et al.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON FIRST AMENDED VERIFIED PETITION
  FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 




 
K.I.G. PROPERTIES, LLC, et al.,  


 
 
 
 
 
Real Parties in Interest. 
 


 


 

 



 


 


 


 

 


          Petitioner Supporters Alliance
for Environmental Responsibility (“SAFER”) petitions for a writ of mandate
directing respondents City of Inglewood and City Council of the City of Inglewood
(collectively “City”) to vacate and set aside their approval of the Prairie
Station Apartments Project (“Project”) until respondent complies with the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”).
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
Project Site
 
The approximately 5.07
acre project site is located on the southeast corner of the intersection of
Prairie Avenue and 113th Street along the southern border of the City of
Inglewood (APNs 4035-018-015, 4035-018-016, 4035-018-900, 4035-018-901,
4035-018-902 & 4035-018-903). (AR 368.) Five structures have been
previously developed on the project site, including two commercial buildings,
two single-family dwellings, an equipment building, and an antenna. All
structures have been demolished, except for a parking lot and a one-story, 2,000
square foot building on the northeast corner of the project site, which is
currently unoccupied and closed off to public access. The remainder of the
project site is currently covered with common grasses and fencing bordering the
perimeter of the landscaping areas. Presently, 113th Street provides a driveway
approach from Prairie Avenue that traverses through the center of the project
site and then continues along the western border of the project site adjacent
to Interstate 105 (“I-105”). Several mature trees, including palm trees, grow
along Prairie Avenue and the western boundary of the project site. (AR 368.)
 
According to the City’s
General Plan, the project site is designated Commercial and has a zoning
designation of Airport Commercial (C-2A). (AR 368). The project site’s current
zoning designation does not allow for any newly constructed residential uses;
therefore, the proposed project would require discretionary actions such as a
General Plan amendment and a zone change prior to implementation. (AR 374.)
The adjacent properties
along northern and eastern boundaries of the project site are designated for
Commercial land uses according to the City’s General Plan. The properties
adjacent to the eastern boundary of the project site are designated for
Commercial (C) uses and include the Palace Surplus grocery store and La Quinta
Inn and Suites. Properties north of the project site are designated for Commercial
(C) land use and include an auto dealership. The closest residential land uses
are located adjacent to, or within 15 feet of, the northeast corner boundaries
of the project site. The I-105 borders the project site to the southwest, and
an I-105 off-ramp borders the project site to the north. (AR 368.)
 
B.          
Proposed Project
 
The proposed Project
consists of the construction of three podium-style apartment buildings that
would provide 440 units, including up to 105 with mezzanines. Each building
would have one to two floors of parking at grade or partially subterranean and
include six stories of residential units and mezzanines located within the
units on the top floor. Many units would include private balconies. The overall
building height of each residential building would be no higher than 85 feet.
(AR 368.)
 
The Building A
development would consist of the construction of approximately 215 market rate
rental housing units. (AR 745.) Building A would be located on the northwestern
portion of the project site. Building A would include up to 8,500 square feet
of courtyard open space on the second floor. The courtyard open space would
include a pool. (AR 374.)
 
The Building B
development would consist of the construction of approximately 95 rental
housing units on the Participating Parcel, of which 10 of those units will be
exclusively reserved for and leased at “Affordable Rents” to Lower Income
Households, as defined in Health and Safety Code section 50079.5(a), plus an
additional 10 of the residential units exclusively reserved for and leased at “Affordable
Rents” to Moderate Income Households, as defined in California Health and
Safety Code section 50053(b)(5). The remaining 75 residential units would be
rented at market rate rents. (AR 745.) Building B would be in the northeast
corner of the project site. The building would include up to 2,500 square feet
of courtyard open space on the second floor. (AR 374.)
 
The Building C
development would consist of the construction of approximately 130 rental
housing units, of which 10 of those units will be reserved exclusively for and
leased at “Affordable Rents” to Lower Income Households, plus an additional 10
of the residential units reserved exclusively for and leased at “Affordable
Rents” to Moderate Income Households. (AR 745.) Building C would be in the
southeast corner of the project. The building would include up to 3,000 square
feet of courtyard open space on the second floor. (AR 374.)
 
A total of up to 670
parking spaces would be provided, including approximately 100 surface parking
spaces in addition to the balance of parking spaces in each building’s ground
floor and/or subterranean concrete parking levels. Vehicles would access the project
site from the main entry at 113th Street along Prairie Avenue. The main entry
would provide for 36 feet wide vehicular use with 15 feet pedestrian walkways
on either side. The project site would also be accessible to pedestrians from
the sidewalk on Prairie Avenue. (AR 374.)
 
C.          
Construction Activities
and Timeline
 
Construction of the
proposed project would last for approximately 27 months in total and was
scheduled to begin in January 2024 and be completed by Spring 2026. The
proposed project of  three podium
building structures with underlying parking garages would be constructed in two
stages, with construction of the first building scheduled to begin in March
2024 following clearing and grading of the site, and construction of the second
and third buildings scheduled to begin in May 2024. (AR 374.)
 
Each construction phase
assumes a five-day week work schedule, Monday through Friday, eight hours per
day, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. through 8:00 p.m., pursuant to the
Inglewood Municipal Code (IMC). Demolition, excavation, leveling, paving, and
finishing would each require 20 workers per day, and the building construction
phases would require 200 workers per day. Over the course of the demolition
activities, a total of 400 truck haul trips would haul demolition debris
off-site to the nearest applicable landfill facility. Excavation activities
would require 4,500 truck hauling trips to haul 33,705 cubic yards of material
off-site to the nearest applicable landfill facilities. Each Construction Phase
would require 80 vendor trips per day. The Paving and Finishing, Landscaping,
and Coating Phases would each require 40 vendor trips per day. Operation of the
proposed project was expected to commence in March 2026. (AR 374.)
 
 
D.          
Project Review
 
Between 1994 and 2000,
the former Inglewood Redevelopment Agency had purchased approximately 2.63
acres comprising the City Parcel and transferred the land to the City pursuant
to the Long-Range Property Management Plan prepared by the successor agency and
the Redevelopment Dissolution Law (Health & Saf. Code §§ 34170, et seq.)
(AR 733.) In September 2018, the City entered into an Exclusive Negotiating
Agreement (“ENA”) with respondent Prairie Station, LLC to sell the City Parcel
for the purpose of building an apartment building complex. (AR 733.) The ENA
was subsequently extended and assigned to Prairie Station Holdings, LLC
(“Developer”). (AR 733-34.) The City and Developer entered into the Disposition
and Development Agreement (“DDA”) that provided for the acquisition of the City
Parcel by the Developer and its development. (AR 734, 741-864.)
 
On or about August 5,
2021, the City announced the availability of the Mitigated Negative Declaration
(“2021 MND”) for public review and comment concerning the Project. (AR 1610,
1612.) The discretionary actions necessary to implement the Project include the
approval of the DDA, a Planned Assembly Development, an amendment to the
General Plan, and a proposed zoning change. (AR 366.) Under the DDA, Prairie
Station Holdings, LLC would purchase the City Parcel for $3,750,000. (AR 751.)
 
On or about October 20,
2022, the City announced the availability of a Revised Draft Initial Study and
Mitigated Negative Declaration (“MND”). (AR 1619.) The Notice states: “The
IS/MND assesses the proposed project’s impact on the environment. All impacts
identified are mitigated to Less Than Significant level.” (AR 1619, 1621.). The
Notice states: “Comments on the IS/MND must be received by November 8, 2022, at 5:30 PM. Written comments should be submitted
via email or mail delivery service.…” (AR 1619, 1621, emphasis added.)
 
On or about October 21,
2022, Molly Greene of Lozeau Drury, LLP, a law firm based in Oakland,
California, on behalf of SAFER emailed a letter to City Planner Marissa Fewell
and others requesting notices pertaining to the Project. (AR 1666.) Greene
provided no description of the organizational nature or purpose of SAFER or its
geographical nexus to the proposed Project in Inglewood.
 
On or about October 27,
2022, Adam Frankel of Lozeau Drury submitted Comment Letter No. 2. (AR 1233, 1676.)
In Comment Letter No. 2, Frankel wrote: “I am writing on behalf of Supporters
Alliance for Environmental Responsibility (‘SAFER’) regarding the Revised Draft
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration (‘IS/MND’) prepared for the
[Project] ….” (AR 1233.) In Comment Letter No. 2, Frankel provided no
description of the organizational nature or purpose of SAFER or its
geographical nexus to the proposed Project in Inglewood, California. Frankel
made no specific request for an extension of time to raise substantive
environmental responses.
In response to Comment
Letter No. 2, the City wrote:
 
This comment states that
the letter is being written on behalf of the Supporters Alliance for
Environmental Responsibility (SAFER) and that the IS/MND fails as an
informational document. The comment further states that there is a fair
argument that the proposed project may have adverse environmental impacts and
requests that the City of Inglewood prepare an Environmental Impact Report
(EIR) for the proposed project. 
 
This comment does not
address the contents of the IS/MND or raise any environmental issues. This
comment letter will be forwarded to the decision makers for their consideration.
Comment Letter No. 3 was also submitted by this commenter and is responded to
below.
 
(AR 1234.)
 
On or about November 1,
2022, Frankel submitted Comment Letter No. 3. (AR 1235, 1678.) In Comment
Letter No. 3, Frankel wrote: “I am writing on behalf of Supporters Alliance for
Environmental Responsibility (‘SAFER’) regarding the City of Inglewood’s
(‘City’) review of the Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration
(‘MND’), prepared for the [Project]….” (AR 1235.) In Comment Letter No. 3,
Frankel provided no description of the organizational nature or purpose of
SAFER or its geographical nexus to the proposed Project in Inglewood,
California. Comment Letter No. 3 raised no specific and substantive
environmental issues. Instead, Frankel indicated concern about the adoption of
a Planned Assembly Development project and the City’s alleged plan to bypass
the Planning Commission and bring the Project approvals directly to the City
Council. (AR 1235-36.) Frankel made no specific request for an extension of
time to raise substantive responses.
 
In response to Comment
Letter No. 3, the City wrote:
 
This comment states that
it is being written on behalf of the Supporters Alliance for Environmental
Responsibility (SAFER) and that they have reviewed the IS/MND. The comment
further states that the IS/MND should be presented to the Planning Commission and
receive a public hearing because the proposed project requires approval of a
Planned Assembly Development (PAD). The comment states that Inglewood Municipal
Code Section 12-39.3 requires a Special Use Permit (SUP) for approval of PADs
and Section 12-39.5 of the code requires a public hearing for a SUP before the
Planning Commission. The comment concludes that without prior approval by the
Planning Commission any request for approval by the City Council would violate
the City's Municipal Code. Lastly, the comment states that a presentation of
the proposed project before the Planning Commission would be in the best
interest of the public.
 
The comment does not
address the contents of the IS/MND or raise any new significant environmental
issues. Consideration of the Disposition and Development Agreement (DDA) is the
first action the City will take for this project. As such, the IS/MND would
need to be certified at that time along with approval of the DDA. Subsequent
discretionary applications for the project will require public hearings before
the Planning Commission and City Council. At the time, those reviewing bodies
will need to confirm that the scope of the applications are within the scope of
the previously certified IS/MND.
 
(AR 1237.)
 
On December 1 and 8,
2022, the City posted Notice of a December 20, 2022, Public Hearing on the DDA
and the MND for the Project. (AR 1626-30.)
 
On November 8, 2022, the
South Coast Air Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”) submitted Comment Letter
No. 4 on the revised MND for the Project. (AR 1238-40.) SCAQMD made
“recommended health risk reduction strategies that the Lead Agency should
include in the Final MND” and requested that the City consider “the impacts of
air pollutants on people who will live in a new project and provide mitigation
where necessary.” (AR 1238-39.) In response, the City stated that this comment
does not address the contents of the IS/MND or raise any new significant
environmental issues. (AR 1241.) The City further stated that CEQA case law
does not require the City to assess the potential for off-site sources of
emissions, such as the freeway, to impact future residents. (AR 1241.)
 
On or about December 19,
2022, one day prior to the public hearing and after expiration of the public
review period, Frankel emailed a 106-page letter to various city officials. (AR
1691-1796.) Frankel wrote: “I am writing on behalf of Supporters Alliance for
Environmental Responsibility (‘SAFER’) regarding the City of Inglewood’s
(‘City’) review of the Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration
(‘MND’), prepared for the Prairie Station Multi-Family Residential Project
(EA-MND-2020-061)….” (AR 1691.) In that letter, Frankel did not provide any description
of the organizational nature or purpose of SAFER or its geographical nexus to
the proposed Project in Inglewood, California.
 
In Part III of the
December 19, 2022 Letter, Frankel for the first time raised substantive environmental
concerns as follows: 
 
The MND prepared for the
Project is legally inadequate and fails as an informational document. SAFER has
reviewed the MND with the assistance of numerous independent experts, including
wildlife biologist Dr. Shawn Smallwood, Ph.D; environmental engineers Patrick
Sutton, P.E., and Yilin Tian, Ph.D., of Baseline Environmental Consulting;
indoor air quality expert and Certified Industrial Hygienist, Francis
"Bud" Offermann, PE, CIH; and air quality experts Matt Hagemann,
P.G., C.Hg. and Paul E. Rosenfeld, Ph.D., of the environmental consulting firm,
Soil Water Air Protection Enterprise (“SWAPE”). The expert comments and CVs of
these experts are attached, respectively in the order which they are named
here, as Exhibits B, C, D, and E.
 
These independent experts’ findings regarding the
MND's inadequacies constitute substantial evidence of a fair argument that the
Project will have significant, unmitigated environmental impacts which the MND
has failed to adequately address. These impacts include, but are not limited
to: cumulatively significant health risks to future Project residents that
would result from exposure to indoor formaldehyde emissions and diesel
particulate matter emissions from the immediately adjacent I-105 freeway; insufficient
mitigation of health risks to future Project residents and area residents
resulting from the proposed Project's future construction and operational
emissions; significant impacts to at least three special-status species living
on or near the Project site; and insufficient mitigation of the Project's
significant greenhouse gas and energy impacts. The full extent of these impacts
is detailed in the attached exhibits, which are incorporated herein by
reference in their entirety.
 
These expert findings
make clear that the MND has failed to adequately disclose or mitigate the
Project's environmental impacts. Therefore, the City must deny the proposed MND
and direct Planning Staff to undertake the necessary efforts to prepare an EIR.”

 
(AR 1698-99.)
 
E.          
Public Hearings
 
            On December 20, 2022, the City held a public hearing on
the MND and DDA for the Project. (AR 1528-40.) The minutes show that Frankel
made the following statements:
 
Adam Frankel stated that he was speaking on behalf
of the Supporters Alliance For Environmental Responsibility (SAFER). He noted
that SAFER had serious concerns regarding how the project was being reviewed
and felt it violated the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
Additionally, Mr. Frankel discussed CEQA’s requirements regarding review
procedures, project alternatives, the project’s environmental impact that had
not been adequately mitigated, and provisions. Furthermore, he stated that
SAFER believed the project was supposed to be brought before the Planning
Commission and felt it was improper for the City Council to approve the
Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) under state and local laws and the
provisions under the Inglewood Municipal Code. Finally, Mr. Frankel discussed
SAFER’s professional review determinations, violations of state and local laws,
the preparation of the MND, and the need for [the] planning department to
prepare an Environmental Impact Report (EIR). 
 
(AR 1542.)
 
            The minutes do not show that Frankel gave a description
of the organizational nature or purpose of SAFER or its geographical nexus to
the proposed Project in Inglewood, California. There is no mention of any
appearance by any members of SAFER or by any of the experts identified in
Frankel’s December 19, 2022 letter. The minutes do not show that Frankel
discussed the December 19, 2022 letter and its particulars with the City
Council or presented that letter, with exhibits, during the public hearing.
 
            By a vote of 5 to 0, the City Council voted to adopt the
MND and to adopt Resolution No. 23-36 approving the DDA. (AR 1543.) On December
22, 2022, a Notice of Determination was filed with the County Recorder’s
Office. (AR 1.)
 
On January 3, 2023,
Richard Toshiyuki Drury of Lozeau Drury LLP sent to the City a notice of
SAFER’s intent to file suit under CEQA. (AR 2095.) There is no mention of the
organizational nature or purpose of SAFER or its geographical nexus to the
proposed Project in Inglewood, California.
 
On January 5, 2023,
Frankel sent to the City a Public Records Act Request on behalf of SAFER. (AR
2098.) It did not mention the organizational nature or purpose of SAFER or its
geographical nexus to the proposed Project in Inglewood, California.
 
II.      Procedural History
 
On January 20, 2023, petitioner filed a Verified Petition
for Writ of Mandate. On May 25, 2023, petitioner filed a First Amended Verified
Petition for Writ of Mandate. On September 8, 2023, respondents City of Inglewood
and City Council for the City of Inglewood filed an Answer. Real parties in
interest K.I.G. Properties, LLC and Prairie Station, LLC also filed an Answer
that same day.
 
            On November 30, 2023, petitioner
filed an opening brief. On May 17, 2024, 2024, respondents filed an opposition,
and real parties filed a joinder in that opposition. On June 14, 2024,
petitioner filed a reply. On June 21, 2024, respondents filed evidentiary
objections. On June 26, 2024, petitioner filed a response to the evidentiary
objections. 
 
The
Court has received an electronic copy of the administrative record and a hard
copy of the joint appendix. 
             
III.     Standard of Review
 
In an action challenging an agency’s decision under
CEQA, the trial court reviews the agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of
discretion. (Pub. Res. Code § 21168.5.) “Abuse of discretion is
established if the agency has not proceeded in a manner required by law or if
the determination or decision is not supported by substantial evidence.” (Ibid.)
 
A city may issue a mitigated negative declaration
when an initial study identifies potentially significant effects on the
environment if the effects are mitigated to a less than significant level and “there
is no substantial evidence in light of the whole record ... that the project
[as mitigated] may have a significant effect on the environment.” (Pub. Res.
Code § 21064.5; Guidelines § 15064(f)(2)[1];
No Oil, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 Cal.3d 68, 74.) To prevail
on its challenge to the MND, a petitioner must “demonstrate by citation to the
record the existence of substantial evidence in the record that supports a fair
argument that the project may a have a significant effect on the environment.”
(Joshua Tree Business Alliance v. County of San Bernardino (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 677, 688.) “If the project is one ‘which may have a significant
effect on the environment,’ an [environmental impact report] is required.” (No
Oil, 13 Cal.3d 68, 74; see also Pub. Res. Code § 21151 [“All local
agencies shall prepare, or cause to be prepared by contract, and certify the
completion of, an environmental impact report on any project that they intend
to carry out or approve which may have a significant effect on the environment”].)
 
Substantial
evidence is defined as “enough relevant information and reasonable inferences
from this information that a fair argument can be made to support a conclusion,
even though other conclusions might also be reached.” (Guidelines § 15384(a).)
“Argument, speculation, unsubstantiated opinion or narrative, evidence which is
clearly erroneous or inaccurate, or evidence of social or economic impacts
which do not contribute to or are not caused by physical impacts on the
environment does not constitute substantial evidence.” (Ibid.)
 
          The
CEQA Guidelines define “significant effect on the environment” as “a
substantial, or potentially substantial, adverse change in any of the physical
conditions within the area affected by the project including land, air, water,
minerals, flora, fauna, ambient noise, and objects of historic or aesthetic
significance. An economic or social change by itself shall not be considered a
significant effect on the environment. A social or economic change related to a
physical change may be considered in determining whether the physical change is
significant.” (Guidelines § 15382.)
 
IV.     Analysis
 
A.          
Evidentiary Matters
 
Petitioner’s request to take judicial notice of the
notification of review issued by the United States Fish & Wildlife Service
entitled “Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Review of Species That
Are Candidates for Listing as Endangered or Threatened; Annual Notification of
Findings on Resubmitted Petitions; Annual Description of Progress on Listing
Actions” is GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(c). 
 
Respondents’ requests to take judicial notice of the
First Amended Verified Petition (Exhibit A), respondents’ Answer to First
Amended Petition (Exhibit B), real parties’ Answer to First Amended Petition
(Exhibit C), and petitioner’s Statement of Issues are GRANTED, but only for the
existence of the documents and not the truth of the matters asserted therein. (See
Evid. Code § 452(d); Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548,
1564-69.)
 
            Petitioner’s
request to take judicial notice of the agenda of the Inglewood City Council
meeting on December 20, 2021 (Exhibit A) is DENIED. Respondents’ objection regarding
the agenda is SUSTAINED. On August 2, 2023, respondents filed a Certification
of Administrative Record. According to the Court’s August 8, 2023 scheduling
order, “[a]ny objections to the contents of the administrative record shall be
addressed consistent with Local Rule § 3.232(f).” (8/8/23 Order ¶ 1.) Local
Rule § 3.232(f) states: “Any dispute over the contents of the record must
be resolved by noticed motion.” No noticed motion was filed to dispute or
augment the record. 
 
            Petitioner’s
request to take judicial notice of its Articles of Incorporation is GRANTED. (Evid.
Code § 452(c); Pedus Building Services, Inc. v. Allen (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 152, 156, fn. 2.) 
 
Respondents’ objections regarding the Articles of
Incorporation and the declaration of Jon P. Preciado are OVERRULED. Extra-record
evidence may be admitted to negate an affirmative defense of standing. (See Western
States Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559, 575, fn. 5; Running
Fence Corp. v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 400, 424, fn. 14.) New
evidence may be submitted in reply to address “points ‘strictly responsive’ to
arguments made for the first time in the opposition.” (Golden Door
Properties, LLC v. Superior Court (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 733, 774.) Standing
was only raised for the first time in any meaningful in opposition. Respondents
are not prejudiced, as they have been able to substantively address the evidence
in their evidentiary objections. (Obj. to Pet. Second RJN at 5:13-7:17; Obj. to
Preciado Decl. at 5:1-7:5.)


 
B.          
Substantial Evidence that Project May Have a
Significant Effect on Environment
 
It is undisputed that no environmental impact
report (“EIR”) was prepared for the Project. The essential issue is whether the
record contains substantial evidence of a fair argument that the Project as mitigated
may have a significant effect on the environment. 
 
1.           
Biological Impacts
 
An EIR is required when a project has the potential
to “substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or wildlife species,” cause a “wildlife
population to drop below self-sustaining levels,” “threaten to eliminate” an animal
community, or “substantially reduce the number or restrict the range of an
endangered, rare or threatened species.” (Guidelines § 15065(a)(1).) 
 
            During
the project review, petitioner presented the expert opinion of Dr. Shawn
Smallwood, researcher of animal density and distribution, habitat selection,
and conservation of rare and endangered species. (AR 1704-42.) Dr. Smallwood
presented the results of a site visit conducted by Noriko Smallwood, a wildlife
biologist, on November 14, 2022. (AR 1704-06.) Having walked around the
perimeter of the Site with binoculars for 2 hours and 19 minutes, Ms. Smallwood
detected 17 species of vertebrate wildlife, three of which were special-status
bird species: Cooper’s hawk, red-tailed hawk, and western gull. (AR 1706-08.) Ms.
Smallwood also saw a monarch butterfly, which is a federal candidate endangered
species. (AR 1706-07.) 
            
Dr. Smallwood applied a model to Ms. Smallwood’s
results to estimate that, with repeated surveys, Ms. Smallwood would detect 91
species of vertebrate wildlife at the Site, 16 of which would be special-status
species. (AR 1713-14.) The model was based on a survey across 167 square
kilometers of annual grasslands of the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area, where
Dr. Smallwood performed 721 hours of surveys at 46 stations from 2015 through
2019. (AR 1713.) 
 
Dr. Smallwood opined that the Project would impact
habitat loss, wildlife movement, traffic impacts to wildlife, and bird-window
collisions. (AR 1720-27.) With respect to habitat loss, Dr. Smallwood opines
that the Project would increase habitat fragmentation, a process whereby available
parcels for habitats diminish in size and become increasingly isolated. (AR
1720.) Habitat fragmentation and habitat loss have caused a 29% decline in
overall bird abundance across North America over the last half century. (AR
1720.) Dr. Smallwood remarked: “The project site is one of the very last
patches of open space that remains in the region; its loss to wildlife would likely
cause much greater harm to wildlife than would the loss of the same-sized area
in another less-urbanized setting.” (AR 1720.) Dr. Smallwood applied studies
concerning bird nesting densities and loss of availability of the Project site
for bird reproduction to estimate an annual loss of 287 birds. (AR 1720-21.) 
 
            With
respect to wildlife movement, Dr. Smallwood opined: “A site such as the
proposed project site is critically important for
wildlife movement because it composes an increasingly diminishing area of open
space within a growing expanse of anthropogenic uses, forcing more species of
volant wildlife to use the site for stopover and staging during migration,
dispersal, and home range patrol.” (AR 1721.) The Project would decrease the
amount of open space for stopover and staging during migration, requiring
volant wildlife to travel farther between remaining stopover sites and
increasing the risks of exhaustion, disorientation, and starvation. (AR
1721.)  
 
To calculate traffic impacts to wildlife, Dr.
Smallwood started with the MND’s prediction that “[t]he proposed land uses
would generate 1,754 daily trips and approximately 16,355 vehicle miles
traveled (VMT).” (AR 546, 546, 1723.) He then applied the findings of a study
concerning roadside wildlife fatalities to predict that the Project’s vehicle
trips would cause 327 annual wildlife fatalities. (AR 1723-24.)
 
            With
respect to bird-window collisions, Dr. Smallwood observed that “[w]indow
collisions are often characterized as either the second or third largest source
or
human-caused bird mortality.” (AR 1724.) He then
averaged the annual bird fatality rate per square meter of glass from various
studies. (AR 1726.) Based on an estimated 4,000 square meters of glass in three
85-foot-tall buildings, Dr. Smallwood predicted that the Project would result
in 292 annual bird deaths, including some special-status species. (AR 1726-27.)

 
            In
contrast, the MND contained a finding that the Project would “not have an
effect, either directly or through habitat modifications, on any species
identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special status species in local or
regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the [California Department of
Fish and Wildlife] or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and no impact
would occur.” (AR 387.) The MND reasoned that the Project site “is currently
vacant land located in an urbanized area and surrounded primarily by commercial
and residential uses.” (AR  387.) The MND
also explained that, based on a “search of the California Department of Fish
and
Wildlife’s (CDFW) California Natural Diversity
Database (CNDDB), the project site is not located in an area where has been
recent siting of any endangered, rare, or threatened species.” (AR 387.)
However, as explained by Dr. Smallwood, the CNDDB warns its users that it is
only a “positive sighting database” and that it “does not predict where
something may be found.” (AR 1716.) Indeed, the CNDBB itself notes that just because
there is nothing on its map does not mean that there are no special status
species present. (AR 1716.) 
 
            Dr.
Smallwood’s opinion constitutes substantial evidence of a fair argument that the
Project has the potential to substantially reduce the habitat of wildlife
species, cause a wildlife population to drop below self-sustaining levels,
threaten to eliminate an animal community, and substantially reduce the number
or restrict the range of an endangered, rare, or threatened species.
(Guidelines § 15065(a)(1).) An EIR was required. 
 
2.           
Greenhouse Gas Impacts
 
An EIR is required when a project has the potential
to “substantially degrade the quality of the environment.” (Guidelines §
15065(a)(1).) An EIR is also required when the project “has possible
environmental effects that are individually limited but cumulatively
considerable,” meaning “the incremental effects of an individual project are
significant when viewed in connection with the effects of past projects, the
effects of other current projects, and the effects of probable future projects.”
(Guidelines § 15065(a)(3).) 
 
In the MND, in response to the question “Would the
project…[g]enerate greenhouse gas emissions [“GHG”], either directly or
indirectly, that may have a significant impact on the environment?”, the City indicated
that the Project would have a “Less-Than-Significant-Impact.” (AR 398.) 
 
The City calculated that the Project would emit
2,761.3 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (“MTCO2e”) per year. (AR 399.)
The City determined that this amount did not exceed the threshold of 3,000
MTCO2e that the South Coast Air Quality
Management District published in draft interim guidance. (AR 398-99.) 
 
Prior to the public hearing, petitioner presented
the opinion of expert environmental engineers Patrick Sutton, P.E., and Dr.
Yilin Tian. (AR 1744-51.) They explained that the 3,000 MTCO2e threshold was
never adopted by the SCAQMD Governing Board. (AR 1745.) Consistent with that
explanation, the MND also confirms that “[n]either the City nor SCAQMD has
officially adopted a quantitative threshold value for determining the significance
of GHG emissions that will be generated by projects under CEQA.” (AR 398.) 
 
As noted by petitioner: “Thresholds of significance
to be adopted for general use as part of the lead agency's environmental review
process must be adopted by ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation, and
developed through a public review process and be supported by substantial
evidence.” (Guidelines § 15064.7(b).) However, “Lead agencies may also use
thresholds on a case-by-case basis as provided in [Guidelines] Section
15064(b)(2).” (Ibid.) “When using a threshold, the lead agency should
briefly explain how compliance with the threshold means that the project's
impacts are less than significant.” (Guidelines § 15064(b(2).) 
 
In the MND, the City explained that a “Working
Group” proposed a “tiered screening methodology for assessing the potential
significance of GHG emissions generated by CEQA projects,” which was outlined
in minutes dated September 28, 2010. (AR 398-99.) “[B]ased on the commercial
elements comprising the proposed project,” the City determined that the 3,000
MTCO2e was the appropriate threshold. (AR 399.)
 
It is undisputed that the September 28, 2010
minutes are not included in the administrative record. “A lead agency enjoys
substantial discretion in its choice of methodology. But when the agency
chooses to rely completely on a single quantitative method to justify a
no-significance finding, CEQA demands the agency research and document the
quantitative parameters essential to that method. Otherwise, decision makers
and the public are left with only an unsubstantiated assertion that the impacts…will
not be significant.” (Center for Biological Diversity v. Department of Fish
& Wildlife (2015) 62 Cal.4th 204, 228.) Here, the documentary basis upon
which the City elected to use the 3,000 MTCO2e threshold is missing from the
record. As a result, the public is uninformed as to reasons why any emissions
below this selected threshold would not be significant. 
 
Even if the minutes were contained in the
administrative record, “[c]ompliance with the threshold does not relieve a lead
agency of the obligation to consider substantial evidence indicating that the
project’s environmental effects may still be significant.” (Guidelines §
15064(b)(2).) “A threshold of significance is not conclusive…and does not
relieve a public agency of the duty to consider the evidence under the fair
argument standard.” (Mejia v. City of Los Angeles (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
322, 342.) 
 
The opinion of the environmental engineers
presented by petitioner indicates that other air pollution control districts
have adopted thresholds lower than 3,000 MTCO2e, including: (1) 1,100 MTCO2e (adopted
by both the Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District and the Bay
Area Air Quality Management District); (2) 1,150 MTCO2e (adopted by the San
Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District); and (3) 2,500 MTCO2e
(adopted by the County of San Diego). (AR 1745-46.) The 2,761.3 MTCO2e that the
City calculates the Project would emit exceed these other formally adopted
thresholds.
 
Based on the unsubstantiated 3,000 MTCO2e threshold
selected by the City and the fact that the GHG emissions from the Project may
exceed other formally adopted thresholds, there is a fair argument that the
Project may have a significant cumulative effect on the environment. An EIR was
required.
 
3.           
Indoor Emissions
 
An EIR is required when the “environmental effects
of a project will cause substantial adverse effects on human beings, either
directly or indirectly.” (Guidelines § 15065(a)(4).) CEQA requires an analysis
of “impacts on a project's users or residents that arise from the project's
effects on the environment.” (California Building Industry Assn. v. Bay Area
Air Quality Management Dist. (2015) 62 Cal.4th 369, 387.) CEQA addresses
human health and safety. (Id.at 386.)
 
Petitioner presented the expert opinion of Certified
Industrial Hygienist and Professional Engineer Francis J. Offermann. (AR 1753-70.)
Offerman noted that formaldehyde is an indoor air contaminant, a human
carcinogen, and a potent eye and respiratory irritant. (AR 1754.) “The primary
source of formaldehyde indoors is composite wood products manufactured with
urea-formaldehyde resins, such as plywood, medium density fiberboard, and particleboard.
These materials are commonly used in building construction for flooring, cabinetry,
baseboards, window shades, interior doors, and window and door trims.” (AR
1754.)
 
            Even
if the Project were compliant with a California Air Resources Board regulation meant
to reduce formaldehyde composite wood products, Offermann opined that the median
lifetime cancer risk to residents from the formaldehyde in the Project is still
120 per million. (AR 1755.) This is 12 times the cancer risk significance
threshold of 10 per million established by the SCAQMD. (AR 1754, 1756.) 
 
            Offermann
further identified an existing cancer risk of 988 per million identified by
SCAQMD due to the proximity of the I-105 freeway to the Project site. (AR
1756.) Offermann opined that the indoor air contaminants that would result from
the Project would exacerbate this existing cancer risk. (AR 1756.) 
 
Based on the toxic indoor formaldehyde emissions
that may result from the Project, as well as the cumulative impact with the
emissions from the I-105 freeway, a fair argument can be made that the Project
may cause substantial adverse impacts on human beings. An EIR was required.                    
 
C.          
Standing
 
Respondents do not address any of the
above-discussed contentions by petitioner that an EIR was required because the
record contains substantial evidence of a fair argument that the Project may have
a significant effect on the environment. Instead, respondents argue that petitioner
lacks standing to pursue the instant CEQA action. 
 
As a preliminary matter, even though petitioner did
not address the issue of standing in the opening brief, petitioner has not
forfeited the issue of standing. Respondents are correct that “the burden to
allege and establish standing lies with the plaintiff.” (Mendoza v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 802, 810.) However, petitioner had no
obligation to anticipate respondents’ standing defense in its opening brief. (See
Golden Door Properties, LLC v. Superior Court (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 733,
775 [plaintiffs had no obligation in motion to anticipate and negate defense, plaintiffs
could present evidence negating defense in reply].) Although respondents raised
standing as their seventeenth affirmative defense (Resp. RJN Ex. B) and real
parties denied petitioner’s allegations regarding standing (Resp. RJN Ex. C at
¶¶ 18, 19), “[a]n answer which by means of an indiscriminate general denial
denies virtually indisputable matters—such as matters of public record—is
highly suspect and may leave a plaintiff wondering whether other allegations
which he honestly regards as beyond dispute, but which are not inherently
indisputable, are really disputed by the defendant.” (Burke v. Superior
Court (1969) 71 Cal.2d 276, 282-83.) Petitioner’s Articles of Incorporation
were filed with the Secretary of State and are accordingly a matter of public
record. (Pet. Second RJN, Ex. B.) Further, respondents asserted a total of 21
affirmative defenses and real parties largely denies the First Amended
Petition. Given such boilerplate defenses and general denials, petitioner could
not have been expected to address standing in its opening brief and may
accordingly address respondents’ and real parties’ challenges to standing in the
reply. 
 
            With
respect to standing, petitioner must show either that it has a beneficial
interest in enforcement of respondents’ duties or that the exception for public
interest standing applies. “A petitioner who is not beneficially interested in
a writ may nevertheless have ‘citizen standing’ or ‘public interest standing’
to bring the writ petition under the ‘public interest exception’ to the
beneficial interest requirement. The public interest exception ‘applies where
the question is one of public right and the object of the action is to enforce
a public duty—in which case it is sufficient that the plaintiff be interested
as a citizen in having the laws executed and the public duty enforced.’” (Rialto
Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of Rialto (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
899, 913-14.) 
 
In a citizen standing analysis, “[t]he courts
balance the applicant’s need for relief (i.e., his beneficial interest) against
the public need for enforcement of the official duty. When the duty is sharp
and the public need weighty, the courts will grant a mandamus at the behest of
an applicant who shows no greater personal interest than that of a citizen who
wants the law enforced.” (Citizens for Amending Proposition L v. City of
Pomona (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1159, 1174.) “Judicial recognition of citizen
standing is an exception to, rather than repudiation of, the usual requirement
of a beneficial interest.” (Reynolds v. City of Calistoga (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 865, 873.)
 
            Petitioner
has alleged and proven public interest standing to pursue the instant action.
Petitioner seeks to enforce a public duty—enforcement of CEQA. (FAP ¶¶ 4,
5; Bozung v. Local Agency Formation Com. (1975) 13 Cal.3d 263, 272-73.) CEQA
and its implementing regulations “embody California's strong public policy of
protecting the environment,” “[i]nform governmental decision makers and the
public about the potential, significant environmental effects of proposed
activities,” and “[d]isclose to the public the reasons why a governmental
agency approved the project in the manner the agency chose if significant
environmental effects are involved.” (Tomlinson v. County of Alameda
(2012) 54 Cal.4th 281, 285; Guidelines § 15002(a)(1), (a)(4).) 
 
Petitioner is also a California nonprofit
corporation whose primary objective is, among other things, “to contribute to
the preservation and enhancement of the environment; to advocate for…development
projects that promote not only good jobs but also a healthy natural environment
and working environment, including but not limited to advocating for changes to
proposed projects…that, if adopted, would reduce air, soil and water pollution,
minimize harm to wildlife…reduce traffic congestion, reduce global warming
impacts, and assure compliance with applicable land use ordinances….” (FAP ¶ 7;
Pet. Second RJN, Ex. B at Art. II, ¶ B.) Corporations may assert public
interest standing. (Save the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Manhattan
Beach (2011) 52 Cal.4th 155, 168.) 
 
In the objection to petitioner’s Second Request for
Judicial Notice, respondents argue that petitioner was formed to evade
anti-trust and RICO claims and challenge development projects on behalf of
labor unions. “[W]here the claim of ‘citizen’ or ‘public interest’ standing is
driven by personal objectives rather than ‘broader public concerns,’ a court
may find the litigant to lack such standing…. For example…it would be improper
for a petitioner—whether corporation or individual—to ‘attempt to use CEQA to impose
regulatory burdens on a business competitor, with no demonstrable concern for
protecting the environment.’” (SJJC Aviation Services, LLC v. City of San
Jose (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1043, 1057-58.) Even if the instant petition were
to benefit labor unions, respondents fail to show that petitioner has no
demonstrable concern for environmental protection and therefore lacks standing.
Even crediting respondents’ assertion that petitioner is a “front” for labor
unions (Obj. to Pet. Second RJN at 6:15-18), “unions have standing to litigate
environmental claims.” (Bakersfield Citizens for Local Control v. City of
Bakersfield (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1184, 1198.) 
 
            Because
petitioner has public interest standing, petitioner need not show any
beneficial interest in the enforcement of CEQA.[2]
(Save the Plastic Bag Coalition, 52
Cal.4th at 166, quoting Bd. of Soc. Welfare v. County of L.A. (1945) 27
Cal.2d 98, 100-01 [“‘[W]here the question is one of public right and the object
of the mandamus is to procure the enforcement of a public duty, the
[petitioner] need not show that he has any legal or special interest in the
result, since it is sufficient that he is interested as a citizen in having the
laws executed and the duty in question enforced.’ ”].)
 
            Accordingly,
petitioner has standing to bring the instant petition. 
 
D.          
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
 
Respondents and real parties also contend that petitioner
has failed to prove exhaustion of administrative remedies. 
 
Public Resources Code § 21177 codifies “without
change the judicially created exhaustion doctrine.”[3]
(See Tahoe Vista Concerned Citizens v. County of Placer (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 577, 591.) “Under the doctrine of exhaustion of administrative
remedies, ‘where an administrative remedy is provided by statute, relief must
be sought from the administrative body and this remedy exhausted before the
courts will act.’ This rule ‘is not a matter of judicial discretion, but is a
fundamental rule of procedure laid down by courts of last resort, followed
under the doctrine of stare decisis and binding upon all courts.’” (Park
Area Neighbors v. Town of Fairfax (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1442, 1447.)
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating
that the issues raised in the judicial proceeding were first raised at the
administrative level.” (Sierra Club v. City of Orange (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 523, 536.) The petitioner is not required to have brought the
precise legal inadequacy that it raises before the trial court to the
administrative agency’s attention to preserve the issue for judicial review so
long as the petitioner fairly apprised the agency of the substance of its claim.
(Save Our Residential Environment v. City of West Hollywood (1992) 9
Cal.App.4th 1745, 1750; see Porterville Citizens for Responsible Hillside
Development v. City of Porterville (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 885, 909.) The
exhaustion doctrine is “not satisfied here by a relatively few bland and
general references to environmental matters.” (Coalition for Student Action
v. City of Fullerton (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 1194, 1198.)
 
Although the burden is on petitioner to show its
CEQA claims were raised at the administrative level, for the same reason with
respect to standing, petitioner was not required to directly address exhaustion
of administrative remedies in the opening brief. (Golden Door, 53
Cal.App.5th at 775.) 
 
Respondents argue that petitioner failed to exhaust
administrative remedies by not submitting evidence during the public comment
period. On or about October 20, 2022, the City provided notice that comments
regarding the MND must be received by November 8, 2022. (AR 1619, 1621.) Petitioner did not submit evidence supporting its
assertion that the Project would have a significant effect on the environment
until December 19, 2022, after the public comment period but the day before the
public hearing. (AR 1528-40, 1691-1796.) The minutes from the public hearing
also reflect that petitioner raised “professional review determinations” and
the need for an EIR during the hearing. (AR 1542.)
 
“CEQA does not require an agency to respond to
comments that are received after close of the designated public review period.”
(Chico Advocates for a Responsible Economy v. City of Chico (2019) 40
Cal.App.5th 839, 852, fn. 9; see also Guidelines § 15207 [“If any
public agency or person who is consulted with regard to an EIR or negative
declaration fails to comment within a reasonable time as specified by the lead
agency, it shall be assumed, absent a request for a specific extension of time,
that such agency or person has no comment to make. Although the lead agency
need not respond to late comments, the lead agency may choose to respond to
them”].) 
 
            However,
Public Resources Code § 21177(a) also allows for the presentation of evidence
indicating noncompliance with CEQA “before the close of the public hearing on
the project before the issuance of the notice of determination.” Petitioner
indisputably presented its evidence before the close of the public hearing. “If
the decision making body elects to certify the EIR without considering comments
made at this public hearing, it does so at its own risk. If a CEQA action is
subsequently brought, the EIR may be found to be deficient on grounds that were
raised at any point prior to close of the hearing on project approval.” (Bakersfield
Citizens for Local Control v. City of Bakersfield (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th
1184, 1201.) 
 
            Here,
given the substantial evidence of a fair argument of a potential significant
effect to the environment presented by petitioner prior to the notice of
determination, the Court finds that petitioner exhausted its administrative
remedies. Petitioner did not bury its evidence in a mass of documents, as real
parties suggest in their joinder. Rather, petitioner asserted that the same
expert opinions analyzed above constitute “substantial evidence of a fair
argument that the Project will have significant, unmitigated environmental
impacts which the MND has failed to adequately address.” (AR 1698.) Petitioner included
the expert opinion in its comments to the City and referenced the opinions
during the public hearing. (AR 1542, 1700-70.) The City had the opportunity to consider
and respond to the evidence. Even though the evidence was presented on the eve of
the public hearing, “‘expediency should play no part in an agency’s efforts to
comply with CEQA.’ [Citation.]” (Bakersfield Citizens, 124 Cal.App.4th at
1201 [“As was cogently noted by the trial court, ‘the public agency decides
when they are going to certify the EIR.... [¶] ... [¶] ... They didn't have to
do it that night.’].) 
 
While comments submitted after the close of the
public comment period may delay certification, the CEQA process allows for such
resulting delay. (See Bakersfield Citizens, 124 Cal.App.4th at 1201 [developer’s
“complaint that allowing project opponents to raise objections after close of
the public comment period for the draft EIR allows them to ‘sandbag’ project
proponents and delay certification ‘ad infinitum’ should be presented to the
Legislature, for it is a complaint about the design of the CEQA process”].) The
CEQA process is concerned with providing decision-makers with information about
potential significant effects to the public, having received such information, the
City’s decision to proceed with certification of the Project without delay was
done at its peril. 
 
Petitioner exhausted its administrative remedies,
and, as discussed above, the issues it raised required an EIR. 
 
VI.     Conclusion
 
The
petition is GRANTED. Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), petitioner shall
prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed judgment and proposed writ of
mandate. 
 


