 Case Number:  24SMCV00126    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  M The Court has considered Plaintiff Reza
Faramand’s parte application for a temporary restraining order and order to
show cause re preliminary injunction along with Defendant’s opposition and
Defendant’s January 22, 2024, supplemental opposition.  As set forth below, the ex parte application
is GRANTED, in part, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 526(a)(1)-(4)
and 527(c)(1).  The TRO will remain in
effect at least until the Court hears Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary
injunction, which will be heard on March 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
Defendant submitted 51 objections
to the declaration of Reza Farazamand. 
The Court sustains objections nos. 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 15, 16, 22-24,
26, 29, 33, 34, and 41-48.  The remaining
objections are overruled.
 
The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial.
(See Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d
1536.)  Relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a
sufficient factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink
Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) The burden of proof is on
the plaintiff as moving party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the
absence of an adequate damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(4); Thayer
Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.)
 
The trial court considers two
factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the
likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and
(2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court
grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Husain v.
McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm
between the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of
other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving
the status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 867.) Thus, a
preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential
entitlement to such relief.  (Doe v. Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
296, 304 (“The trial court abuses its discretion in granting such a preliminary
injunction when “there is no likelihood” that the movants will prevail on the
merits of their claims for relief.”))  
 
              In his
application, Plaintiff seeks the following:
1.  Enjoin Defendant from performing actions on
behalf of the Corporation without obtaining the prior written consent and/or
authorization of Plaintiff in his capacity as an equal shareholder of the
Corporation, and a director of the Corporation. 
2.  Enjoin Defendant from utilizing or
appropriating any assets owned by the Corporation, including but not limited to
any business credit cards, for any purpose that is not necessary to fulfill
Corporation business, without prior written authorization from Plaintiff in his
capacity as an equal shareholder of the Corporation, and a director of the
Corporation. 
3. 
Enjoin Defendant from withholding any Corporation records or documents
from Plaintiff. 
4.  Enjoin Defendant from withholding or reducing
compensation to Plaintiff for his performance of duties for the Corporation,
without prior written authorization from Plaintiff in his capacity as an equal
shareholder of the Corporation, and a director of the Corporation. 
5. 
Enjoin Defendant from deactivating, or otherwise preventing the use of,
Plaintiff’s company credit cards, without prior written authorization from
Plaintiff in his capacity as an equal shareholder of the Corporation, and a
director of the Corporation. 
6. 
Enjoin Defendant from engaging in communications or dealings with
vendors or other third parties who have a business relationship with the
Corporation in an effort to gain a prospective advantage over the Corporation
or interfere with the business relations between the Corporation and such
vendor and/or third party without the knowledge, and consent of Plaintiff. 
7. 
Enjoin the Defendant from hiring, firing, laying off employees, or
altering employees' working hours without obtaining the Plaintiff's consent. 
8. 
Require Defendant to file an amended Statement of Information with the
California Secretary of State which accurately lists the titles of the
Plaintiff and the Defendant; and 
9. 
Enjoin the Defendant from acting in any manner, whether by affirmative
action or omission thereof, that may cause employees to believe that the
Plaintiff lacks authority in the Corporation.
 
The purpose of any TRO is to
maintain the status quo of the litigation. 
The Court concurs that the TRO request is based upon Defendant’s alleged
breaches of his fiduciary duties, which are set forth in the first and second
causes of action.  Both those causes of
action, however, seek monetary damages only. 
There is only one cause of action in the complaint in which Plaintiff
seeks any declaratory relief, which is the sixth cause of action.  The only relief sought in the TRO rationally
related to the sixth cause of action is Plaintiff’s request to inspect the
corporate records.  (Comp., ¶ 62.)
 
By way of background, Plaintiff
Farazmand and Defendant Joubin Hanaie are both 50% shareholders of Intelifi
Inc.  (Farazmand Decl., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff served as Chief Executive Officer, while
Defendant served as Chief Financial Officer. 
(Id. ¶¶ 5-6.)  The corporation has
no bylaws, shareholder agreement or other written governing instruments.  (¶ 7.) 
As the Chief Executive Officer, Plaintiff has been the individual
primarily overseeing and supervising the day-to-day operations of the
Corporation. (¶ 8.). As Chief Financial Officer, Defendant has been responsible
for overseeing the financial aspects of the Corporation, including but not
limited to, maintaining financial records, financial planning, ensuring legal
compliance in financial matters, and supervising all finances. (¶ 9.)  In opposition, Defendant presents evidence
that Farazmand and Hanaie were co-CEO’s. 
(See Opp., Exhs. 2-3.)
 
Plaintiff is entitled to access and
review all corporate records, including all accounting software.  Defendant is denying Plaintiff this access
and as such, Plaintiff will likely prevail on this cause of action.  (Farazmand Decl., ¶ 22.)  Defendant is ordered to provide full access
to financial documents, including all accounting software.  This does not mean that Plaintiff has access
to the original Quickbook file or accounting software, but that a copy of these
and other records by provided to Plaintiff. 
That is the only portion of Plaintiff’s TRO that is being granted by the
Court.
 
As to the other requests,
Plaintiff’s complaint makes clear that monetary damages would be sufficient.
Moreover, the foundation for many of these requests was based upon evidence
that was subject to the Court sustaining Defendant’s objections.  In addition, evidence submitted in
Defendant’s supplemental opposition demonstrates that Plaintiff is unlikely to
prevail on several of these claims/issues, including nonpayment of the
company’s debts and credit cards.  (See
Hanaie Suppl. Decl., ¶¶ 2, 7, 10.)  The
Court further agrees that Plaintiff has failed to establish the company’s
ability to pay salaries and other corporate debts.
 
Finally, in his initial opposition,
Defendant argued that the Court did not have jurisdiction over him because he
was not served with the summons and complaint. 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1150, service of the
complaint is not a prerequisite.  Rule
3.1150(a) permits an application for an OSC against a party that has not
appeared, if it is served in the same manner as a summons and complaint.  That did not occur here, yet by filing an
opposition and making an appearance, Defendant has waived that
requirement.  The
“general rule is that one who has been notified to attend a certain proceeding
and does do so, cannot be heard to complain of alleged insufficiency of the
notice; it has in such instance served its purpose. This rule applies to one
who appears in a lawsuit after defective service of process upon him
[citation], to one who responds to a notice of motion without adequate notice
[citation].”  (De Luca v. Board of Supervisors (1955) 134 Cal.App.2d 606, 609.)
 
The Court set an OSC re Preliminary
Injunction for March 7, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Any opposition shall be filed by February
22, 2024 and any reply brief by February 29, 2024.  Plaintiff to give notice via overnight mail
and email service.