 Case Number:  23STLC06800    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  26 
 Anda v. City of Whittier, et al.

JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
(Code Civ. Proc., §
438; Smiley v. Citibank (1995) 11 Cal.4th 138, 145-146)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant City of Whittier’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED. WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER
DEFENDANT CITY OF WHITTIER IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT OF
DISMISSAL FROM THE COMPLAINT.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff
Martha Delia Anda (“Plaintiff”) filed this premises liability action
against Defendants City of Whittier (“Defendant Whitter”), Cappo
Management XLI LLC dba Ocean Honda of Whittier (“Defendant Ocean Honda”), Victory
Automotive Group, LLC, and Victory Automotive Group, Inc. (“the Victory
Defendants”). Defendant Whittier filed its Answer on December 18, 2023. On July
15, 2024, the Court granted Defendant Whittier’s motions to compel initial
discovery responses. (Minute Order, 07/15/24.) On July 30, 2024, the Court
granted Defendant Whittier’s motion to deem requests for admission. (Minute
Order, 07/30/24.)
 
Defendant Whittier filed the instant
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Plaintiff on August 28, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 10, 2024 and Defendant Whitter replied
on October 15, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
 
The standard for ruling on a motion
for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a
general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California
Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters
which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the
complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which
are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of
motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be supported by extrinsic
evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)
 
While a statutory motion for judgment
on the pleadings brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, et
seq. must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, there is no such
requirement for a motion for judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to the
common law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 439 [moving party must file declaration
demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least
five days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed].)
 
Allegations in the Complaint
 
Plaintiff
was allegedly walking at Defendants' business known as Ocean Honda of Whittier
located at 13839 Whittier Boulevard, Whittier, California 90605 (“the
Premises”) when she slipped and fell on the water on the sidewalk directly
adjacent to the Premises. (Compl., ¶GN-1.) Plaintiff alleges that she suffered
economic damages as a direct and legal result of the negligence of Defendants.
(Ibid.) Defendants owed a duty of care to all reasonably foreseeable
people, including Plaintiff, to maintain, operate, patrol, service, facilitate,
inspect, and/or control the Premises. (Ibid.) Defendants allegedly
created this dangerous condition and/or failed to take remedial action to
remove the condition, and failed to warn Plaintiff of the existence of the
dangerous condition despite their knowledge of the same. (Ibid.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
City of Whittier asks that the Court take judicial notice of Whittier Municipal
Code sections 13.43.140 and 13.43.150, which set forth legal requirements for
irrigation and maintenance of private properties in the City of Whittier.
Plaintiff objects that these provisions of the municipal code are irrelevant.
The Court finds Defendant Whittier has not made a sufficient showing that these
municipal code sections are relevant to the instant action. The Motion asserts
without authority that under these sections, “Defendant Ocean Honda cannot
irrigate until after 8 p.m. and is expressly forbidden from overwatering
irrigation conditions causing water runoff.” The quoted sections of the
municipal code, however, do not demonstrate that they apply to Defendant Ocean
Honda and in fact, the sections have exceptions for watering outside the time
limits set forth therein. (See Motion, p. 4:1-16.) The request for judicial
notice, therefore, is denied.
 
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
The
Motion is brought on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state a cause of
action for premises liability against Defendant Whittier. Under Government Code
section 815, public entities are immune from liability unless provided for in a
statutory exception. (Govt. Code, § 815, subd. (a) [“Except as otherwise
provided by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether
such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person.”].)
The
Complaint does not state a statutory basis for liability against Defendant
Whittier. Also, claims against public entities must be alleged with
specificity. (Lopez v. So. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795.) The Complaint does not allege the basis of any duty owed to
Plaintiff by Defendant Whittier, or the manner in which it was negligent. In
fact, public entities are immune from liability for failing to inspect private
property for hazards. (Govt. Code, § 818.6.)
 
The only
basis for liability against Defendant Whittier is Government Code section 835,
which requires a plaintiff to plead: “(1) a dangerous condition existed on
public property at the time of the injury; (2) the condition proximately caused
the injury; (3) the condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind
of injury sustained; and (4) the public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition of the property in sufficient time to have
taken measures to protect against it.” (Vedder v. County of Imperial (1974)
36 Cal.App.3d 654, 659.) Plaintiff’s opposition contends the allegations in the
Complaint are sufficient but fails to point to any specific facts alleged
therein. The minimal allegations in the Complaint, which are merely
restatements of the elements of the cause of action, fail to set forth facts in
support of any of the elements. Specificity of pleading against a public entity
means that general allegations, such as alleged in the instant Complaint, are
inadequate. (Se Brenner v. City of El Cajon (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 434, 439.)
 
Therefore,
the Complaint fails to allege a cause of action for premises liability against
Defendant Whittier.
Conclusion
Defendant City of Whittier’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED. WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER
DEFENDANT CITY OF WHITTIER IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT OF
DISMISSAL FROM THE COMPLAINT.
 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 