 Case Number:  23SMCV01151    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Altman v. Halpern,
et al, Case No. 23SMCV01151
Hearing Date
August 01, 2024
Defendant Gillion’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons 
 
Altman brings a
breach of contract action against defendants for failure to repay $240,700 in
investment capital. Defendant Gillion seeks to quash summons for lack of
personal jurisdiction claiming she is a New York resident with no ties to
California. 
 
A defendant may
move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the
court over him or her. Code Civ. Proc., §418.10(a)(1). The court may dismiss
without prejudice the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when
dismissal is made pursuant to sec. 418.10. Code Civ. Proc. §581(h). "A
court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent
with the Constitution of this state or of the United States." Code Civ.
Proc. §410.10. "The Due Process Clause protects an individual's liberty
interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of a forum with which he
has established no meaningful 'contacts, ties, or relations."' Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472. A state court may not
exercise personal jurisdiction over a party under circumstances that would
offend "traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” Asahi
Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court of California, Solano County
(1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.
 
When a defendant moves to quash service of process on
jurisdictional grounds, plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts
justifying exercise of jurisdiction. Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung
Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553. Once facts showing
minimum contacts with the forum state are established, defendant has the burden
to demonstrate the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. Id.
"The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to
independently conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. [Citation.] The
plaintiff cannot rely on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and
conclusory assertions of ultimate facts. [Citation.]" Strasner v.
Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222. 
A defendant is subject to a state's general
jurisdiction if its contacts "are so continuance and systematic as to
render [it] essentially at home in the forum State." Daimler AG v.
Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 127. A nonresident defendant may be subject to
the specific jurisdiction of the forum "if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the 'controversy
is related to or "arises out of' a defendant's contacts with the forum.'
[Citations.]" Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 434, 446. This test does not require a "causal relationship
between the defendant's in-state activity and the litigation." Ford
Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017,
1026. The "arise out" of standard "asks about causation,"
but "relate to" does not. Id. "[W]hen a corporation has
'continuously and deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably
anticipate being haled into [that State's] court[s]' to defend actions 'based
on' products causing injury there." Id. at p. 1027.
The court lacks general jurisdiction over Gillion, as
it is undisputed she is a New York resident. 
Altman contends the court has specific jurisdiction
because Gillon purposefully availed herself by soliciting investments from
Altman, knowing he was in California. Altman claims Gillion communicated extensively
by phone and email with Altman in California, and when Gillon issued a refund,
it was sent to California. 
Gillion argues she is a New York resident with no
affiliation with California. Gillion Decl. ¶ 12. She claims to have never
actively sought business from individuals or entities in California, never
worked in the state and has never been a resident. Id. ¶¶ 12-14. Gillon
was a project manager of Perjac, with neither ownership interest nor access to
bank accounts. ¶¶ 2-5.
Defendant Halpern states Gillion was a W-2 hourly
employee of Perjac Inc. for a few months in 2020 and did not work in California
while employed. Halpern Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.
Altman fails to demonstrate Gillion purposefully
availed herself of California’s benefits because the evidence provided does not
establish a connection between Gillion and the agreement. A
nonresident defendant must purposefully direct its activities at the forum
state to invoke the benefits and protections of local law. Hanson v. Denckla
(1958) 357 US 235, 253. 
The evidence does not show Gillion purposefully
directed her actions to California. Altman’s claim arises from the breach of a
venture agreement between Altman and Perjac Inc. Altman Decl. ¶ 2. He bases his
argument for purposeful availment solely on Gillion’s interactions with him. While
Gillion’s role occasionally saw her interacting with vendors and clients, Alman
has not provided evidence that Gillion made similar solicitations to other
potential investors in California. 
Gillion has no ownership interest in Perjac and does
not have access to its bank accounts. Gillion Decl. ¶¶ 3, 5. Gillion did not
negotiate the contract with Altman. Halpern Decl. ¶ 9. The agreement was signed
by Halpern, not Gillion. Id. Exh. A. Thus, based on the evidence
provided Alman has not demonstrated Gillion directed her activities to
California sufficient to establish jurisdiction. 
Alman requests jurisdictional discovery to obtain
evidence of the extent of Gillion's contacts with California and involvement in
the transaction. Gillion does not object. The court will allow limited
discovery in this regard.