 Case Number:  22SMCV01418    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Roth v. Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc., DBA Athens Services, Case No. 22SMCV01418
Hearing Date
August 01, 2024
Roth’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set Two
 
Plaintiff Roth, in
pro per, alleges a sanitation truck belonging to defendant Athens struck his
parked car and drove away. Roth alleges he called Athens to report the
hit-and-run, but Athens employee Caraballo mishandled his claim. On March 22,
2024 Roth served Special Interrogatories, Set Two, on Arakelian and now moves
to compel further responses, arguing Arakelian’s objections to its special
interrogatories Nos. 25-56 contain meritless objections.
 
In California, discovery statutes
“must be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is
clearly improper.” Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.
“Under the discovery statutes, information is discoverable if it is
unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” John B. v. Superior
Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186. “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” Id. 
 
A party to whom interrogatories are
served must respond in writing and under oath by: (1) an answer containing the
information sought to be discovered; (2) an exercise of the party’s option to
produce writings; or (3) an objection to the particular interrogatory. Code
Civ. Proc. §2030.210(a)(1)-(3). “Each answer in response to interrogatories
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.” Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220(a). “If
an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the
extent possible.” Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220(b). “If the responding party does
not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to the interrogatory,
that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220(c).  
 
A party may move for an order
compelling a further response to interrogatories where: (1) an answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the
option to produce documents under CCP §2030.320 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) an objection is without
merit or is too general. Code Civ. Proc. §2030.300(a)(1)-(3).   
 
A party is entitled “to learn
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter.” Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.
“A party may use interrogatories to request the identity and location of those
with knowledge of discoverable matters.” Id. “While the party
propounding interrogatories may have the burden of filing a motion to compel if
it finds the answers it receives are unsatisfactory, the burden of justifying
any objection and failure to respond remains at all times with the party
resisting an interrogatory.” Id. “[O]ur discovery system is founded on
the understanding that parties use discovery to obtain names and contact
information for possible witnesses at the starting point for further
investigations.” Id. at p. 544.  


Meet and Conferral Requirement 
Motions to compel further responses must always
be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Id., §§
2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).)  They must also be accompanied
by a separate statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as
well as reasons why a further response is warranted.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  The separate statement must also be complete in
itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by reference.  (Id.,
rule 3.1345(c).) 
 
Roth’s declaration satisfies the meet and confer
requirement under CCP 2030.300(b). the parties communicated via email, but no
resolution was reached. Roth Decl. ¶¶ 3-4. Roth additionally satisfies the
separate statement requirement by providing a separate statement with the
motion. 
 
Interrogatory 25 
The request seeks
email communications related to the incident, including those with Emily
Harvey. The request is unintelligible, as it is too vague to be understood.
Furthermore, the request is duplicative of RFP No. 2, which was previously
determined to be sufficiently answered per the court’s December 13, 2023 order.
Def. Exh. A & B. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 26 
The request asked
for the identification of Athens Services employees who reported any and all
accidents to the City of Los Angeles. However, this was not clear upon first reading
of the request. The request is not relevant as it does not relate to the
accident underlying Roth’s complaint. Moreover, the request is overbroad
because it does not establish a specific time frame. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory t 27
The request asks
for the identities of individuals who received customer service calls from
Athens Services. The request is not relevant to Roth’s claims because it seeks
the names of third parties who have nothing to do with the accident underlying
Roth’s complaint. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 28
The request asks
for the names of data backups related to Athens Services' data protection. It
is overbroad because it is not relevant to Roth’s property damage claim and unintelligible
because it is too vague to be understood. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 29
The request asks for
each analysis made by Athens Services under President Greg Loughnane's
management in support of the since 2019. The request is unintelligible because
it is unclear what Roth is seeking by this request. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 30
The request seeks
the number of attempts Athens Services made to communicate with Roth via
telephone. The request is relevant because it pertains to Jose Veliz’s prior
testimony. However, Arakelian’s response indicates Veliz reached out to Roth
via email on September 28, 2021. Arakelian does not provide an explanation
showing the quantum of work required to answer in the negative. West Pico
Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.
Arakelian must provide further responses, answering the question and providing
the requisite clarification. GRANTED. 
 
Interrogatory 31
The request asks for
a description of Athens Services' reporting procedures for accidents. The
request is relevant since it seeks information related to further facts
regarding the circumstances surrounding the accident that were discussed
internally. However, the request is overbroad in scope because it seeks reporting
procedures for accidents that have no relation to the accident alleged in the
underlying complaint. The court limits this request to reporting procedures that
deal with motor vehicle accidents involving Athens Services vehicles. GRANTED.
 
Interrogatory 32 
The request asks
for the identity of the person who communicated the reference number 10211426
to Roth when he called on April 6, 2021. This is relevant to Roth’s claim
because it deals with the investigation into the accident. To the extent that
it implicates the privacy rights of third parties, the court is open to a
proposed protective order preventing the disclosure of materials outside the
litigation. GRANTED.
 
Interrogatory 33
The request asks
for all evidence that supports Athens’ inability to produce route documentation
revealed in Alvaro Montufar’s declaration. The request is relevant to the
breach of contract claim. Athens’s response, without waiving its objections, is
that this is not a breach. Athens has sufficiently responded to this
interrogatory because it denies that it breached its contract. DENIED.
 
Interrogatory 34
The request asked for
the dates of each vehicular property damage occurrence communicated to the City
of Los Angeles for Athens Services' entire 10-year contract period. This is irrelevant
and overbroad because it goes beyond well the subject accident and is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and a 10
year time frame is overbroad. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 35
The request asks
Athens Services to state all evidence that it believes supports its argument
that it has not breached its franchise contract regarding data retention of
trucking routes. Athens’s response, without waiving its objections, is that it
is not a breach. The request is not ambiguous because Roth points out that,
according to the Veliz declaration, Athens does not maintain GPS data despite
it being required to do so. Athens's response is sufficient as it denies this
contention. DENIED.  
 
Interrogatory 36
The request asked
for a description of all the alleged evidence supporting Athens’s affirmative
defenses. Athens sufficiently answered the interrogatory, pointing Roth to its
answer, and is unable to state all relevant evidence that might support the
general denials or affirmative defenses asserted. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 37
The request asks
for the identity of the telephone service provider used to communicate with
Roth. This request is irrelevant as it does not relate to Roth’s claims or the accident
and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 38
The request asks
Athens to identify the telephone call Veliz refers to in his declaration. Athens'
response cites Veliz's declaration, which states that he did email Roth on
September 28, 2021, to obtain relevant information to investigate his claim.
Based on this, Athens has sufficiently responded to the interrogatory.
DENIED.   
 
Interrogatory 39
The request asks
to identify the solid resources service truck drivers who operated sanitation
trucks in the 90291-zip code area on August 25, 2020. The request is
duplicative of RFP No. 13, which was previously determined to be sufficiently
answered per the court’s May 2, 2024, order. Def. Exh. B. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 40 
The request asks
for evidence that supports that the software selection that overwrites route
data, does not breach the data maintenance and backup requirements outlined in
provision 10.3.1 of the Athens contract. This request is relevant to the breach
of contract claim and is not totally unintelligible. Athens does not provide any
other valid grounds for sustaining the objection and should respond in good
faith as best it can. GRANTED. 
 
Interrogatory 41
This request asks
to describe all evidence Athens believes supports how its “diligent search of
the responsive documents did not yield responsive documents. This request is
completely unintelligible because it is too vague to be understood. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 42
This request asks
to identify the service addresses for each of Athens's current sanitation truck
routes, including customers in the 90291-area code. It is duplicative of RFP
No. 14, which was previously determined to be sufficiently answered per the
court’s May 2, 2024, order. Def. Exh. B. DENIED.
 
Interrogatory 43
The request asks
for details of any evidence that Athens has not breached the data protection
provision under its contract. Athens’s response, without waiving its
objections, is that there has been no breach. Athens has sufficiently responded
to this interrogatory because it denies that it breached its contract. DENIED.
 
Interrogatory 44
The request asks
to identify all documents related to your employee training materials. It is
duplicative of RFP No. 9, which was previously determined to be sufficiently
answered per the court’s May 2, 2024, order. Def. Exh. B. DENIED.  
 
Interrogatory 45
The request asks
for the person or persons who manage Athens’s data storage. The request is
relevant because it relates to the breach of contract claim, specifically in
how Athens manages its data storage as required under the contract. To the
extent that it implicates the privacy rights of third parties, the court is
open to a proposed protective order preventing the disclosure of materials
outside the litigation. GRANTED.
 
Interrogatory 46 
The request asks
for the identity of Athens’s employees, who are responsible for notifying the
City of Los Angeles of communications when they become known. This is
irrelevant because it goes beyond the subject accident. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 47 
The request asks
Athens to state the legal fees to date in relation to the complaint. The
interrogatory is not relevant to the accident because Athens's legal fees
cannot prove the claims alleged. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 48 
The request asks
for an explanation of the actions taken to search for responsive documents
regarding the Court's 12/13/23 Order Compelling Further Production to
Plaintiffs RFP set ONE. The request is not relevant because it does not relate
to the subject accident. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 49 
The request asks
for details that support Athen’s contention that it did not breach its
agreement. This request is essentially duplicative of Request No. 43. DENIED.
 
Interrogatory 50 
The request asks
for an explanation of how searches for responsive documents to Roth’s RFP, set
One, were done. This request is irrelevant because it does not relate to the subject
accident or the breach of contract action. DENIED.  
 
Interrogatory 51 
This request asks for
the total number of property damage repairs Athens has made between February 1,
2018, and the present. It is overbroad because it seeks information on property
damage beyond the alleged accident. Moreover, it is irrelevant because it asks
for unspecified property damage repairs, not just the ones related to the
alleged accident. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 52
The request asks how
long onboard sanitation truck video data is stored. The request is relevant
because it deals with the breach of contract claim. However, the request is
vague because it is not clear what video data Roth is requesting. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 53
The request asks how
long stop/idle time data is stored for sanitation trucks. The request is
relevant because it deals with the breach of contract claim. However, the
request is vague because it is not clear what video data Roth is requesting.
DENIED.
 
Interrogatory 54
The request asks
for the dates of each property damage repair Athens caused between February 1,
2018, to the present. It is overbroad because it seeks information on property
damage beyond the alleged accident. Moreover, it is irrelevant because it asks
for unspecified property damage repairs, not just the ones related to the
alleged accident. DENIED. 
 
Interrogatory 55
This request asks for
the identification of each property damage claim since Athens’s contract
expired on February 1, 2018. It is overbroad because it seeks information on
property damage beyond the alleged accident. Moreover, it is irrelevant because
it asks for unspecified property damage repairs, not just the ones related to
the alleged accident. DENIED.
 
Interrogatory 56
The request seeks
the names of the individuals who aided in providing Athens’s responses to the
interrogatories. Athens sufficiently answered the interrogatory, which was itself
and its counsel of record. DENIED.
 
Defendants to
produce further documents in accordance with the rulings above within 30 days
or, if no further documents exist, provide a verified statement that a diligent
search has been conducted. No sanctions will be issued as there is no evidence
that the objections were made in bad faith. 
 