 Case Number:  BC722638    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SHAMA ENTERPRISES, LLC, a Nevada Limited Liability Company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CLINICA MEDICA SAN MIGUEL I.P.A. MEDICAL GROUP, A MEDICAL
  CORPORATION; MAHFOUZ M. MICHAEL, an individual; and DOES 1 through 15
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC722638
 Hearing Date:   10/31/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Shama
  Enterprises, LLC’s Motion for Enforcement of Settlement Agreement.



 
Background
Plaintiff Shama Enterprises, LLC
sued Defendants Clinica Medica San Miguel I.P.A. Medical Group, Mahfouz M.
Michael, and Does 1 through 15 pursuant to a February 6, 2019 First Amended
Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Alter Ego.
The claims—really, a single claim
with an alter ego component—arose from allegations that Defendants leased from
Plaintiff commercial property and that Defendants defaulted on their lease in
the amount of $313,678 as of the filing of the FAC. 
On June 30, 2020, the Court held a
final status conference, mandatory settlement conference, and jury trial in
this action, which only Plaintiff’s counsel attended. Plaintiff’s counsel
represented to the Court that the parties had settled the case. The Court
therefore vacated its hearings, ordered the FAC dismissed without prejudice,
and retained jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all terms of
settlement, including judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
664.6.
On October 5, 2023, more than three
years later, Plaintiff Shama Enterprises filed and served a motion to enforce
the settlement agreement, i.e., seeking to enforce the settlement insofar as
Defendants defaulted on the settlement in April 2023.
Defendants have failed to oppose
this motion, which is now before the Court.
 
Motion to Enforce Settlement
Legal
Standard
If
parties to pending litigation stipulate in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court for settlement of the case, the court,
upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement, and if
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).)
Order
Enforcing Settlement: GRANTED.
Here,
on February 18, 2020, Plaintiff Shama Enterprises, Defendant Clinical Medical
San Miguel, and Defendant Mahfouz M. Michael entered a settlement agreement,
pursuant to which Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiff the total sum of $250,000,
with $30,000 to be paid to Plaintiff as of February 15, 2020 and sixty monthly
installment payments of $3,500, with the final payment including an additional
balloon payment of $10,000. The settlement includes terms for liquidated
damages of 10% for any payments not made within ten days of the first of the
month, default interest of 15% on unpaid amounts, entitlement to costs
enforcing the settlement, and entitlement to attorneys’ fees. The settlement also
includes a term that if Defendants default on the agreement—such as by failing
to make any payment when that payment becomes due and payable—Plaintiff may
accelerate all remaining installments and declare the entire unpaid balance
immediately due and payable. The settlement further includes clauses providing
that this Court retains jurisdiction to enforce the settlement and the
addresses where notice should be served when needed. Plaintiff signed the
settlement on March 10, 2023, while Defendants signed it on February 18, 2023.
(Mot., Ex. 1, pp. 1-3, §§ 1-1(f) [settlement amount, late charge, default
interest], 2 [fees], 4-4(a) [default], 10 [costs incurred collecting settlement
monies], 12 [jurisdiction], 16 [addresses for notice purposes] and p. 7
[signatures].) 
Also
on February 18, 2020, MSP Properties, LLC, MSP Properties V, LLC, and MSP
Properties VIII, LLC (Guarantors) jointly and severally executed a guaranty
agreement, in favor of Plaintiff Shama Enterprises as beneficiary, guaranteeing
the monies to be paid under the settlement agreement. The guaranty includes a
waiver to jurisdiction of any court in any suit, action, or proceeding, a
stipulation to where notice should be served, and a stipulation to fees. (Mot.,
Ex. 2; see also Mot., Ex. 2, §§ 4(r) [jurisdiction], 5(l) [addresses for notice
purposes], 5(o) [fees].)
The
October 5, 2023 motion explains that Defendants complied with the terms of the
settlement agreement until April 2023, when Defendants ceased making their
monthly payments under the settlement. As a result, Plaintiff seeks $97,607.25,
which includes (1) the $90,500 balance remaining on the $250,000 settlement,
(2) $700 in liquidated damages based on late payments for February and March
2023, (3) default interest of $3,675, (4) service charges of $357.25, and (5)
attorney’s fees of $2,375. The motion also attaches a proof of service showing
service on Defendants and Guarantors at the agreed-upon Panorama City,
California address. (Mot., pp. 1-3.)
The
motion is supported by copies of the settlement agreement, the guaranty, and
the Court’s June 30, 2020 orders. (Mot., Exs. 1-3.)
The
motion is also supported by the declaration of Karen Kalatian, treasury manager
of Arjuna Associates, LP (the co-manager of Shama Enterprises) and the person
in charge of the day-to-day accounting of Shama Enterprises. Ms. Kalatian
provides that Defendants’ last payment on the settlement agreement was made in
April 2023, in the amount of $7,000, as payment for the months of February and
March 2023—$3,500 for each month. Ms. Kalatian provides that Defendants have
failed to make further payments, leaving $90,500 in outstanding payments that
have been accelerated and come due. The declaration also supports the $700
liquidated damages award and the $3,675 default interest award. (Mot., Kalatian
Decl., ¶¶ 1-11.)
The
motion is further supported by the declaration of Margaret M. Kame, Plaintiff’s
counsel. This declaration establishes the procedural history for this case and
supports the attorneys’ fees award. (Mot., Kame Decl., ¶¶ 1-11.)
The
service charges of $357.25 are the only award not directly supported by the
declarations and appear to involve charges incurred for service of these
papers.
Defendants
and Guarantors have failed to oppose this motion.
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Shama Enterprises, in part.
As
to Defendants, pursuant to (1) the above cited terms of the settlement
agreement, (2) the supporting declarations accompanying this motion, and (3)
the Court’s June 30, 2020 minutes, the Court finds it proper to grant the Order
requested by Plaintiff.
However,
Guarantors are not parties to this action, and though they have agreed to the
jurisdiction of this Court in any action, suit, or proceeding, there must first
be a judgment in this action, after which Guarantors can be added to the action
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 187.
Plaintiff’s
motion is thus GRANTED as to Defendants Clinica Medica San Miguel I.P.A.
Medical Group and Mahfouz M. Michael.
However,
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED as to Guarantors MSP Properties, LLC, MSP
Properties V, LLC, and MSP Properties VIII, LLC. (See Proposed Judgment
[failing to include these guarantors].)
 

Conclusion
Plaintiff Shama Enterprises, LLC’s Motion for Enforcement of Settlement
Agreement is GRANTED, in Part, and DENIED, in Part: (1) GRANTED as to order enforcing the settlement and for an entry of
judgment, against Defendants Clinica Medica San Miguel I.P.A. Medical
Group and Mahfouz M. Michael, pursuant to the terms of the February 18, 2020
settlement agreement; and  (2) DENIED as to MSP Properties,
LLC, MSP Properties V, LLC, and MSP Properties VIII, LLC. Plaintiff Shama Enterprises, LLC is ordered to provide an updated
proposed judgment itemizing the amount due and owing, the liquidated damages, interest, service costs, and
attorneys’ fees thereon, and any other relevant terms to the settlement
agreement’s entry as a judgment.