  Case Number:  23STCV01630    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  34 Defendant Ha-Rakhamon Farhod
Azizi’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication, is DENIED.
Background
            On January
25, 2023, Plaintiffs Eliyaho Schefres (“Schefres”) and Ramish Manglani
(“Manglani”) filed their complaint against Defendant Ha-Rakhamon Farhod Azizi
(“Azizi”) (erroneously sued as Azizi Ha Rakhamon Farhod) arising from a fire that
originated in Azizi’s property damaging Schefres’ properties alleging causes of
action for: 
1.              
Negligence (by Schefres as to Azizi);
2.              
Negligence (by Manglani as to Azizi);
3.              
Negligence per se;
4.              
Trespass;
5.              
Conversion; and
6.              
Strict Liability.
On April 21, 2023, Azizi filed his answer
to the complaint.
On May 24, 2023, Azizi filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Peter Velasquez Hernandez, Daniel Anselmo Arroyo, and
Cali Exotic Rentals. 
On January 5, 2024, by request of
Schefres and Manglani, the Clerk’s Office dismissed Manglani with prejudice from
the complaint.
On February 22, 2024, Azizi filed this
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.
On March 20, 2024, the court granted
the parties’ Ex Parte Application to continue the hearing on Azizi’s Motion for
Summary Judgment.
On December 20, 2024, Schefres filed
an opposition to Azizi’s motion. On December 26, 2024, Azizi filed a reply.
Legal Standard
“A party may move for summary judgment
in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action
or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any
earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(1)(a).)
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. That is because of the
general principle that a party who seeks a court’s action in his favor bears
the burden of persuasion thereon. There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.)
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment
standards in Aguilar to motions for summary adjudication].)
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.)
“The trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a fact finder to determine whose version is more
likely true. Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the
court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder, supra, at p. 840,
citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Dep’t of Transp.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)
Discussion
Evidentiary Objections
The court
declines to rule on Schefres and Azizi’s evidentiary objections found in the opposition
and reply to Azizi’s Motion for Summary Judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (q) (i.e., “[i]n granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion”).
Request for Judicial Notice
            Azizi’s request for judicial notice is granted. “A court may properly take judicial
notice of its own records. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (e).)” (Garcia v.
Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 21.) Judicial notice may also be
taken of “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code §§ 452, subd. (c),
(h).)
Merits
            On
September 5, 2022, a fire originated in the property located at 2843 E. 11th
St., Los Angeles, CA 90023 (“2843 property”), owned by Azizi, affecting the
properties located at 2833 and 2835 E. 11th St., Los Angeles, CA 90023
(“2833-2835 properties”), owned by Schefres and occupied by Manglani. (Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”), Nos. 1-3.)
Schefres alleges that the fire was caused by the operation of an “illegal
marijuana grow business” at the 2843 property. (Id., No. 8.)
            Azizi
moves for summary judgment against Schefres’ complaint arguing that no triable
issue of material facts exists. In the alternative, Azizi moves for summary
adjudication against each cause of action brought by Schefres.
The elements of a negligence claim are
duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages. 
(Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 404, 411.)[1]
 
Azizi argues that he did not breach
any duty of care owed to Schefres under the first cause of action for
negligence. (MSJ, at p. 9.) Azizi contends that the portion of the 2843
property where the fire originated was leased to and under the exclusive
control of Azizi’s tenant, Daniel Arroyo Anselmo (“Anselmo”). (Ibid.; Azizi Decl., ¶¶
9, 11, Exh. H.) Additionally, Azizi argues that he had no knowledge of any
“illegal marijuana grow business” or any other dangerous activity at the 2843
property. (MSJ, at p. 9; Azizi Decl., ¶¶ 16,
19.) Azizi argues that as landowner of the 2843 property, Azizi owed no
duty of care to a third party, like Schefres, as Schefres was injured when Anselmo
was the sole tenant in possession, absent notice of a dangerous condition. (MSJ,
at pp. 9-10.)
“[B]efore liability may be thrust on a landlord for a third party's injury due
to a dangerous condition on the land, the plaintiff must show that the landlord
had actual knowledge of the dangerous condition in question, plus the right and
ability to cure the condition.” (Ibid., quoting Salinas v. Martin,
supra, 166 Cal.App.4th 412 (internal citations and quotation marks
omitted).) In addition, Azizi argues that he also did not owe the duty to
inspect, which arises only if the landowner had some reason to know there was a
need for an inspection. (Id., at p. 10, relying on Garcia v. Holt
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 600, 605.) Thus, as Azizi had no knowledge of any
“illegal marijuana grow business” in the 2843 property, Azizi did not owe
Schefres any duty that could be breached. (Id., at p. 10.)
Based on the evidence presented by Azizi, the court finds
that it creates the inference that Azizi did not have any actual notice of a
dangerous condition that triggered a duty owed to Schefres. Therefore, Azizi has
met his initial burden to show that there is no triable issue of material fact
as to whether Azizi had a duty and breached. Consequently, the burden now
shifts to Schefres to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether Azizi had a duty and breached it. 
In opposition, Schefres
contends that Azizi owed a duty of care to manage his property in a manner that
avoided creating an unreasonable risk of harm to others. (Opp., at p. 4.)
Schefres argues that Azizi had a duty of care to manage, inspect, and address
dangerous conditions on his property in a reasonable manner. (Id., at p.
5.) Schefres contends that Azizi retained possession and control of the 2843
property for his personal use as storage, evidenced through the lease agreement
for the 2843 property and Azizi’s testimony. (Franco Decl., Exh. 2; UMF, No. 4.)
Thus, Schefres argues that the 2843 property was not under the exclusive
possession of Anselmo and, as an occupant of the property, Azizi had a duty to avoid
exposing others to dangerous conditions that arise on the property under the
landowner’s control. (Opp., at p. 6, relying on Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37 (holding that those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm).) 
 
As such, Schefres
argues that Azizi breached his duty by failing to keep the 2843 property in a
reasonably safe condition, conduct inspections, and discover the hazardous grow
operation. (Opp., at p. 6.) Schefres contends that Azizi admitted to have never
inspected the 2843 property during Anselmo’s tenancy which Azizi had a duty to do
as he retained possession of the property. (Id., at p. 8; Franco Decl., Exh. 2.) Schefres
argues that had Azizi carried out his duty, Azizi would have discovered the hazardous
condition and materials stored consistent with a marijuana grow operation
present in the 2843 property as seen in the photos taken by the Los Angeles Fire
Department forensic photographer, Harry Gavin. (Opp., at pp. 3, 7; Franco Decl., Exh. 4.) Additionally,
Schefres provides evidence showing that such materials and conditions create a
substantial fire hazard. (Franco Decl., Exhs. 3, 5; Rappaport Decl., ¶ 5.) Lastly,
Schefres argues that Azizi did not require actual notice of the grow operation
for a duty to arise since constructive notice is sufficient as Azizi retained
possession of the 2843 property. (Opp., at p. 9.) 
 
In reply, Azizi argues
that Schefres did not present any evidence that the fire was caused or spread
by an “illegal growth operation” at the 2843 property aside from the expert
testimony of Robert Rappaport and deposition testimony by the Los Angeles Fire
Department lead investigator, Robert McLoud. (Reply, at pp. 4-5.) Azizi also
argues that the evidence shows that Azizi was not in possession or control of
the 2843 property portion leased to Anselmo where the fire had likely originated
from. (Id., at pp. 5-6.)
            On summary judgment,
the opposing party’s affidavits or declarations are liberally construed. (Corwin
v. Los Angeles Newspaper Service Bureau, Inc. (1971) 4 Cal.3d 842,
851-852.) Therefore, the court finds that the evidence provided by Schefres
creates a question of fact as to whether Azizi owed a duty to Schefres and
breached it by retaining possession of the 2843 property and failing to inspect
it. Schefres’ evidence also creates a question of fact as to whether Azizi had
some form of notice regarding the alleged marijuana grow operation and whether
it could have been the cause of the fire.
            Moreover,
Azizi moves for summary judgment on the ground that Schefres is unable to
establish causation as a matter of law. (MSJ, at p. 10.)[2] However,
as found above, the issue of whether Azizi owed a duty to Schefres and breached
it are matters that are best left to be resolved by a jury. Consequently, the
court is precluded from finding as a matter of law that Azizi was neither the
direct cause nor the proximate cause of Schefres’ damages. Therefore, the court
finds that Azizi has failed to meet its burden in showing that there are no
triable issues of material facts as to whether Schefres is able to establish
the element of causation.  
Accordingly, the court
denies Azizi’s Motion for Summary Judgment. The Motion for Summary Adjudication
as to Schefres’ causes of action is also denied as the questions of fact found
above invertedly create triable issues of material facts pertaining to the
remaining causes of action. 
Conclusion
Defendant Ha-Rakhamon
Farhod Azizi’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative,
Summary Adjudication, is DENIED.


