 Case Number:  23STCV30527    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 25, 2024                               TRIAL DATE: July 22, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         John & Sheryl Associates d/b/a
Discovery World Early Education Center v. CYP LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30527            
 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant CYP LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff John
& Sheryl Associates d/b/a Discovery World Early Education Center. 
 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on December 14,
2023. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, as the landlord of property leased by
Plaintiff, refused to approve Plaintiff’s request to install new playground
equipment without adequate justification. 
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with respect to the first cause
of action without leave to amend and otherwise DENIED.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings is the functional equivalent of a general demurrer.  (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic
Indemnity Co. of Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198).  Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the
pleadings challenge the legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their
veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994). Any defects must either appear on the
face of the pleading, or else be taken by judicial notice.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
316, 321-22).  The parties’ ability to
prove their respective claims is of no concern. 
(Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995,
99.)  Though the Court must accept the
allegations of the complaint and answer as true (Gerawan Farming, Inc. v.
Lyons (2000) 24 Cal.4th 468, 515), it will not do so for “conclusions of
law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or
[judicially noticed] facts…” (Stevenson Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB
Richard Ellis Real Estate Servs., Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215,
1219-20).
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion for
judgment on the pleadings and file a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds to grant
or deny a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of David Ching in
support of the Motion states that the parties met and conferred electronically
on April 8, 2024 and by video conferencing on April 10, 2024. (Declaration of
David Ching ISO Mot. ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) The declaration does not state the outcome
of those discussions, but the Court infers from Plaintiff’s full-throated
opposition to the motion that these efforts were not successful. The Court
therefore finds that Defendant has therefore satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer
obligation.
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Defendant
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the first cause of action for breach
of contract. 
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and finally the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.) Further, the complaint must indicate
whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 430.10(g).) General allegations stating that defendants violated a contract
are insufficient, and plaintiffs must state facts showing a breach. (Levy v.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5-6.) For
breach of a written contract, the essential terms must be set out verbatim in
the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached
and incorporated by reference. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.,
supra, 166 Cal.App.3d at 459.)
 
Defendant contends that the first
cause of action is fatally deficient because the contractual provision on which
it rests does not impose a duty on Defendant. As alleged in the Complaint,
Plaintiff John & Sheryl Associates, doing business as Discovery World Early
Education Center, has been a tenant at the subject property at 550 Deep Valley
Drive, Rolling Hills Estates, CA 90274 since 2006. (Complaint ¶ 6.) Although
ownership of the property has changed hands multiple times, the tenancy remains
governed by the original commercial lease agreement dated May 24, 2006. (¶¶ 6,
10.) Defendant has been the current owner of the property since October 2022
and has assumed all rights and obligations as the Landlord under the 2006 Lease
Agreement. (Complaint ¶¶ 6-7.) As relevant here, section 7.1 of the Lease
Agreement states:
 
Tenant shall, at its
sole cost and expense, install first class new trade fixtures and equipment
required to operate its business. All trade fixtures, signs or other personal
property installed in the Premises by Tenant shall remain its property and may be
removed at any time, provided that Tenant is not in default and that the
removal thereof does not cause, contribute to or result in Tenant's default
hereunder. The term “trade fixtures” excludes carpeting, floor coverings,
lighting fixtures, wall coverings or similar Tenant improvements, all of which
shall become the property of Landlord upon surrender of the Premises. Tenant
shall perform no structural work, no exterior work and no other work costing
more than Two Thousand Five Hundred and No/l00ths Dollars ($2,500.00) in the
aggregate per Year, without the prior written approval of Landlord. Any
work permitted shall be at Tenant's sole cost and expense, shall be done in a
good and workmanlike manner in compliance with all governmental requirements
and the Handbook and shall be done without any liens attaching to the Premises
or the Project. Upon the conclusion of any work by Tenant, whether or not
Landlord's consent thereto is required, Tenant will promptly provide Landlord
with a copy of a then current set of “as-built” plans with respect to the
Premises.
 
(Complaint ¶ 10 [Emphasis added].) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant breached this term by denying Plaintiff an approval to install new
outdoor playground equipment “[w]ithout any valid reason or business
justification.” (Complaint ¶¶ 26-27.) Defendant argues that this contention is
inadequately pled because section 7.1 does not impose a requirement for a
“valid reason” or “business justification” to withhold approval. 
 
“When a dispute arises over the
meaning of contract language, the first question to be decided is whether the
language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by the party.
If it is not, the case is over.” (S. Cal. Edison Co. v. Super. Ct.,
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 839, 847-48.) “If
the court decides the language is reasonably susceptible to the interpretation
urged, the court moves to the second question: what did the parties intend the
language to mean? ... Thus, where contract language is clear and explicit and
does not lead to absurd results, we ascertain intent from the written terms and
go no further. If the contract is capable of more than
one reasonable interpretation, it is ambiguous.”  (Department of Forestry & Fire
Protection v. Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1060, 1066 [internal quotation marks, ellipses, and citations
omitted].) Interpretation of an ambiguous contract requires the consideration
of extrinsic evidence and is therefore not well-suited to resolution via
demurrer. (See Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432-33
[describing evidentiary considerations necessary for determination of the legal
question of the meaning of a contract via motion for summary judgment].)
 
Defendant contends that the express language
of section 7.1 supports only one reasonable interpretation: that Defendant has
discretion whether to approve installation of any fixtures or improvements, and
has no obligations imposed by that section which could be breached. As
Defendant states, a claim for breach of contract is subject to demurrer when
the sole reasonable interpretation of the contract tends to contradict the
plaintiff’s claims. (See Baldwin v. AAA N. Cal., Nev. & Uta Ins. Exch. (2016)
1 Cal.App.5th 545, 553 [finding on appeal from demurrer that an insurance
contract was not ambiguous and its sole reasonable interpretation defeated
plaintiff’s claim for breach of contract].) 
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, contends that Baldwin
is factually distinguishable from this case because the contractual term at
issue specified alternative actions which the defendant insurance company could
take. Plaintiff’s argument on this point is misplaced, as Defendant offers the
citation to Baldwin for general rules of contract interpretation on
demurrer, not for its factual application. Plaintiff also asserts that
discovery is necessary to examine Defendant’s reasons for denial of approval—an
assertion which is entirely unsupported by legal authority justifying the
request. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to address the central question on this
motion: whether the contract is subject to a reasonable interpretation which
imposes an obligation on Defendant with which Defendant has not complied. On
this central issue, Plaintiff offers no substantive argument beyond the extraordinary
claim that the Court should permit extrinsic evidence to aid in the
interpretation of an agreement even if the agreement does not appear ambiguous.
Although Plaintiff cites Walter E. Heller Western Inc. v. Techrim Corp.
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 149 at page 158 in support of that contention, a cursory
review of that opinion reveals that it states the exact opposite. This is
unsurprising, as the standards for contract interpretation on dispositive
motions are long-established by our Supreme Court. (See Walsh v. Walsh
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 439, 443.) Plaintiff cannot escape its obligation to present
an alternative reasonable interpretation of section 7.1 which supports its
contentions by claiming that this section could be ambiguous. Rather,
Plaintiff must demonstrate, through citation to some part of the contract, that
section 7.1 is ambiguous. Plaintiff has not done so. 
 
            The
sole term of the Lease Agreement at issue on the first cause of action plainly
states, in its entirety, that “Tenant shall perform no structural work,
no exterior work and no other work costing more than Two Thousand Five Hundred
and No/l00ths Dollars ($2,500.00) in the aggregate per Year, without the prior
written approval of Landlord.” This language, on its face, imposes no express
obligations on Defendant with respect to that approval. As Plaintiff has not
demonstrated an alternative reasonable interpretation, the Court finds that the
sole reasonable interpretation precludes a claim for breach of contract
premised on section 7.1 of the Lease Agreement because this provision creates
no obligations which could be breached by Defendant. Defendant is therefore
entitled to judgment on the pleadings with respect to the first cause of
action.
 
Second Cause of
Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing
 
            Defendant also moves for
judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
“There is an implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing in every contract that neither party will do
anything which will injure the right of the other to receive the benefits of
the agreement.” (Comunale v. Traders & General Ins. Co. (1958) 50
Cal.2d 654, 658 [internal citations omitted].) “The covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one
contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive
the benefits of the agreement actually made. The covenant thus cannot ‘“‘be
endowed with an existence independent of its contractual underpinnings.’”’ It
cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties beyond
those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.” (Guz v.
Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350 [internal citations
omitted, emphasis in original].) 
 
            The second
cause of action is premised on the same facts as the first cause of action but
alleges that Defendant’s refusal to approve the installation of outdoor
playground equipment was done in bad faith as an attempt to gain improper
leverage in a separate proceeding and force Plaintiff to vacate the property.
(Complaint ¶ 32.) Defendant argues that this cause of action is deficient
because Plaintiff is purportedly attempting to force Defendant to “choose one
option over the other” (Motion p.5:14) because Defendant has discretion whether
to approve the installation or not. In support of this position, Defendant
relies on Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP, a 2019 Court of Appeal
decision reviewing a judgment and fee award following a jury verdict on a
contract dispute between residents of a mobile home park and the park’s owners.
(Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, L.P. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 230, 233.)
With respect to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, the Court of Appeal concluded that the claim could not be
premised on the owners offering buyers of mobile homes owned by the park to
rent space in the park at lower rates, while requiring buyers of resident-owned
homes to assume the seller’s existing lease which had higher rent, because both
actions were permitted by express terms of the lease agreements. (Id. at
255-56.) The Court stated that “[t]he implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing cannot be read to require defendants to take a particular action that
is discretionary under the contract when the contract also expressly grants
them the discretion to take a different action.” (Id. at 256.) Defendant
argues that, as in Bevis, Plaintiff is attempting to apply the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing to “obliterate a right expressly given
under a written contract.” (Id. [internal citations omitted].) 
 
            The Court
disagrees with Defendant with respect to this claim. The Court of Appeal’s
ruling in Bevis was premised, in relevant part, on the existence of a
separate express term of the contract upon which the application of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing would have interfered. (Bevis,
supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 256.) Here, however, Defendant has not identified
any similar term. Moreover, unlike the relevant provision in Bevis,
section 7.1 does not clearly establish that Defendant has absolute discretion
to withhold approval by stating, for example, that approval may be given or
withheld “at [Defendant]’s sole option” or by otherwise reserving rights. (See Bevis,
supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 237 fn. 6.) The Court therefore does not conclude
that Plaintiff’s claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing is deficient in this respect. Defendant is therefore not entitled
to judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of action.
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate how they can amend their pleadings to state their claims against a
defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
“Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the
complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiff
has not demonstrated how the complaint might be amended to cure the deficiency with
respect to the first cause of action. Moreover, as the Court has found that section
7.1 of the Lease Agreement unambiguously does not impose any express
obligations on Defendant, the Court finds that it is not possible to amend the
first cause of action to state a claim for breach of contract premised on that
contractual provision. The Court therefore does not find that leave to amend is
warranted in this instance with respect to a claim for breach of contract
premised on section 7.1 of the Lease Agreement. This ruling is without
prejudice to any other potential claims which Plaintiff’s might assert,
including claims for breach of contract premised on any other relevant
provision of the Lease Agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with respect to the
first cause of action without leave to amend and otherwise DENIED.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 25, 2024                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 