  Case Number:  22STCV18323    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 25, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: June 3, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Jeff Shin v. James Lai, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18323            
 
(1)  
MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE
(2)  
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL FOR JEFF SHIN
(3)  
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL FOR JC BUSINESS CENTER, INC.

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiff Jeff Shin; (2)-(3) Attorney Brad H. Lee,
counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jeff Shin and Cross-Defendant JC Business
Center, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendants
James Lai, Kevin Lai, & Broadway Hill Investment Group, LLC; (2)-(3) No
response on eCourt as of 10/23/24,
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/06/22: Complaint filed.
·        
06/08/22: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
07/08/22: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
10/23/23: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
09/11/24: Complaint filed in JC Business
Center, Inc. v. Broadway Hill Investment Group, LLC, et al.; Case No.
24STCV23433.
·        
09/17/24: Cases deemed related. This case
(22STCV18323) designated as lead case. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud and breach of contract arising out of a
commercial lease dispute. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached the lease
agreement by not allowing Plaintiff unfettered access to the rental property.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jeff Shin
moves to consolidate this action with the related case JC Business Center,
Inc. v. Broadway Hill Investment Group, et al. Case No. 24STCV23433.
Attorney Brad H. Lee, counsel for Plaintiff Shin and Cross-Defendant JC
Business Center Inc., also moves to be relieved as counsel. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED. The action JC Business Center, Inc. v.
Broadway Hill Investment Group, et al. Case No. 24STCV23433 is consolidated
with this case for all purposes. This case is designated as the lead case.
Moving party to give notice. 
 
            Attorney Brad H. Lee’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jeff Shin is GRANTED. This
ruling is STAYED until the Motion for Summary Judgment set for November 7, 2024
at 9:00 AM is resolved. This ruling is also conditioned on Moving Counsel
giving notice to all parties and filing proof of service with the Court. 
 
            Attorney Brad H. Lee’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for JC Business Center, Inc. is GRANTED. This ruling is
STAYED until the Motion for Summary Judgment set for November 7, 2024 at 9:00
AM is resolved. This ruling is also conditioned on Moving Counsel giving notice
to all parties and filing proof of service with the Court. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Consolidate
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Jeff Shin moves to consolidate this action with the related case JC Business
Center, Inc. v. Broadway Hill Investment Group, et al. Case No.
24STCV23433.
 
Legal Standard for Consolidation
 
When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters
in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a), bold emphasis added.) 
 
Procedural Requirements 
 
A motion to consolidate must satisfy the requirements of
California Rules of Court Rule 3.350, which provides, in relevant part: 
 
(a)
Requirements of motion 
 
(1) A
notice of motion to consolidate must: 
 
(A) List
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record; 
 
(B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and 
 
(C) Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The
motion to consolidate: 
 
(A) Is
deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing
fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed
only in the lowest numbered case; 
 
(B) Must be
served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
 
(C) Must
have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.350(a).) 
 
The moving party has not listed the parties who have
appeared in each case in the notice of motion, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(A). That said, Plaintiff sets forth each involved party in the body
of the motion, though he does not state whether each party has appeared. Plaintiff
merely recites the abbreviated case names with docket numbers for each of the
cases at issue. (See Notice of Motion p.2.) The moving party also has not
listed the names of the respective attorneys of record, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(A). 
 
The moving party has not included the captions of both
cases, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(B). Further, the notice of motion was
not filed in the related action, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(C).  
 
It appears that the moving party served the attorneys of
record for each party, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(2)(B). As noted, however,
the moving party did not comply with the other procedural requirements.
Nevertheless, since the opposing parties did not raise objections to these
procedural deficiencies and both actions concern the same parties, the Court
will consider the motion on its merits.  
 
Consolidation of Actions for All Purposes
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to consolidate the later-filed action JC Business Center, Inc. v.
Broadway Hill Investment Group, et al. Case No. 24STCV23433 with this case
for all purposes, on the basis that both cases concern the same dispute over
the same commercial lease agreement for the same property. Comparison of the
Second Amended Complaint in this action and the Complaint in the related action
bear this out, as both pleadings allege the same substantive breach of
contract—i.e., that Defendants failed to provide unfettered access to the
rental property. (SAC ¶ 10-15; Complaint filed 09/11/24 ¶ 10-15.) The principal
difference between the two pleadings is that this action is brought by
Plaintiff Jeff Shin in his individual capacity, and the related action was
brought by JC Business Center Inc., for whom Jeff Shin is alleged to be the
principal. (Id.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that consolidation is improper because Plaintiff Shin lacks standing to
bring his claims against Defendants because he is not the proper party to the
lease agreement. This contention is entirely irrelevant. Whether Plaintiff’s
claims in this action have merit do not bear on whether, as alleged,
they arise out of the same transaction and involve common questions of law or
fact. The pleadings, on their face, evidence that the two cases concern
substantively identical disputes, and Defendants’ bare conclusions to the
contrary are not persuasive. The Court therefore finds that there are common
questions of law and fact to both actions and that they should be consolidated
for all purposes. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED. The action JC Business Center,
Inc. v. Broadway Hill Investment Group, et al. Case No. 24STCV23433 is
consolidated with this case for all purposes. This case is designated as the
lead case. 
 
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Jeff Shin
 
            Attorney
Brad H. Lee moves to be relieved as counsel for Jeff Shin, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant in Case No. 22STCV18323. 
 
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) and filed proofs of service with the Court. Moving counsel
served the motion on Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Shin by mail at his last known
address, and confirmed the address was current by conversation. (MC-052 ¶
3(b).) 
 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause so long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
            Moving Counsel states that
withdrawal is necessary because there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. (MC-052 ¶ 2.) Here, trial in this matter is set
for June 3, 2025, and the next hearing on the matter is a Motion for Summary
Judgment scheduled for November 7, 2024, at 9:00 AM. There is also a discovery
motion on calendar for March 5, 2025, at 1:30 PM, and a Final Status Conference
on May 19, 2025, at 9:00 AM. The only other hearing on calendar is a Status
Conference Re: Arbitration set to coincide with this hearing. With respect to
the trial, the Court finds that there is a low risk of prejudice to Plaintiff.
However, the Court finds a substantial risk of prejudice to Plaintiff Shin with
respect to the pending Motion for Summary Judgment. Given the unusual
procedural posture of the case and the timing of this motion, the Court finds
good cause to permit withdrawal, but will stay that relief until after the
Motion for Summary Judgment has been resolved. The Court will entertain
argument from moving counsel and from Plaintiff, who has been ordered to appear
(see October 11, 2024, Minute Order) as to whether there are any issues
that would prevent moving counsel from defending Plaintiff on that motion. 
 
            Accordingly, Attorney Brad H. Lee’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jeff Shin is
GRANTED. This ruling is STAYED until the Motion for Summary Judgment set for
November 7, 2024, at 9:00 AM is resolved. This ruling is also conditioned on
Moving Counsel giving notice to all parties and filing proof of service with
the Court. 
 
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for JC Business Center, Inc.
 
            Attorney
Brad H. Lee moves to be relieved as counsel for JC Business Center, Inc.,
Cross-Defendant in Case No. 22STCV18323 and Plaintiff in 24STCV23433.
 
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) and filed proofs of service with the Court. Moving counsel
served the motion on the client by mail at its last known address, and
confirmed the address was current by conversation. (MC-052 ¶ 3(b).) 
 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause so long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
Moving Counsel states
that withdrawal is necessary because there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. (MC-052 ¶ 2.) Here, trial in this matter is set
for June 3, 2025, and the next hearing on the matter is a Motion for Summary
Judgment scheduled for November 7, 2024, at 9:00 AM. There is also a discovery
motion on calendar for March 5, 2025, at 1:30 PM, and a Final Status Conference
on May 19, 2025, at 9:00 AM. The only other hearing on calendar is a Status
Conference Re: Arbitration set to coincide with this hearing.
 
For the reasons stated
above with respect to the Motion as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Shin, the
Court finds good cause to permit withdrawal following the resolution of the
Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
            Accordingly, Attorney Brad H. Lee’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for JC Business Center, Inc. is GRANTED. This
ruling is STAYED until the Motion for Summary Judgment set for November 7, 2024,
at 9:00 AM is resolved. This ruling is also conditioned on Moving Counsel
giving notice to all parties and filing proof of service with the Court. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED. The action JC Business Center, Inc. v.
Broadway Hill Investment Group, et al. Case No. 24STCV23433 is consolidated
with this case for all purposes. This case is designated as the lead case.
Moving party to give notice. 
 
            Attorney Brad H. Lee’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jeff Shin is GRANTED. This
ruling is STAYED until the Motion for Summary Judgment set for November 7, 2024,
at 9:00 AM is resolved. This ruling is also conditioned on Moving Counsel
giving notice to all parties and filing proof of service with the Court. 
 
            Attorney Brad H. Lee’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for JC Business Center, Inc. is GRANTED. This ruling is
STAYED until the Motion for Summary Judgment set for November 7, 2024, at 9:00
AM is resolved. This ruling is also conditioned on Moving Counsel giving notice
to all parties and filing proof of service with the Court. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
Dated: October 25, 2024                                 __________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 