  Case Number:  22SMCV00854    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Royal Lee LLC,
et al., v. 1055 Shadow Hill LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00854
MOTION:                  Motion
to Disqualify Counsel
HEARING DATE:   7/2/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Every
court shall have the power to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with
a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto. (CCP
§128(a)(5).) The authority to disqualify an attorney stems from the trial
court's inherent power to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto. (Zador
Corp. v. Kwan (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1285.) The
State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct govern attorney discipline, not
standards for attorney disqualification in courts; however, courts may look to
the Rules of Professional Conduct for guidance regarding attorney
disqualification. (Great Lakes
Const., Inc. v. Burma (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1347.)
 
Disqualification
is a drastic measure that is only justified where the misconduct will have a
continuing effect on judicial proceedings. (Sheller v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1697, 1711.)
“[D]isqualification motions involve a conflict between the clients’ right to
counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of
professional responsibility.” (Kennedy v. Eldridge (2011) 201 Cal. App.
4th 1197, 1204; see Khani v. Ford
Motor Company (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 916, 920 [in the successive
representation context, “the trial court must balance the current client's
right to the counsel of its choosing against the former client's right to
ensure that its confidential information will not be divulged or used by its
former counsel”].) Thus, a disqualification motion may involve such considerations as:
(1) a client's right to chosen counsel, (2) an attorney's interest in
representing a client, (3) the financial burden on a client to replace
disqualified counsel, and (4) the possibility that tactical abuse underlies the
disqualification motion. (In re Complex Asbestos Litigation, (1991)
232 Cal.App.3d 572, 586.)
 
To bring a motion to disqualify counsel, the moving party must
demonstrate a “an invasion of a legally cognizable interest” that is “(a) concrete and particularized, and (b)
actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.” (Great Lakes, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at 1356, 1358.) “A
motion to disqualify will not be granted when only a hypothetical conflict
exists.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 294, 302.) A legally cognizable interest for disqualifying an
opposing attorney may arise from generalized policy concerns surrounding the
rule of professional conduct, e.g., the integrity of the process. (A.F. v.
Jeffrey F. (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 737, 746 [reversed trial court ruling
disqualifying counsel, where mother and child were represented by an attorney
that successively represented mother in prior dissolution of marriage
proceeding].)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the Browning declaration are
OVERRULED.
 
Defendants opening
memorandum of points and authorities is 18 pages.  California Rules of Court, rule
3.1113(d) explicitly states that “Except in a summary judgment or summary
adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages.
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(e) required Plaintiff to “apply to the
court ex parte but with written notice of the application to the other parties,
at least 24 hours before the memorandum is due, for permission to file a longer
memorandum.” However, Plaintiff completely failed to do so despite making
another ex parte application to have the motion advanced. Consequently,
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(g) requires that “A memorandum that
exceeds the page limits of these rules must be filed and considered in the same
manner as a late-filed paper.” (emphasis added). “A trial court has broad
discretion under rule 3.1300(d) of the Rules of Court to refuse to consider
papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a prior court order finding
good cause for late submission.” (Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 755, 765.)  Here, the court exercises
its discretion and strikes pages 16 through 18. 

 
Analysis
 
Defendants 1055 Shadow Hill LLC and
Steve B. Mikhov (“Defendants”) move the court for an order disqualifying David
Schack, Esq. and the law firm of Barnes and Thornburg LLP, as counsel for Royal
Lee LLC ("Plaintiff").  In support
of their request, Defendants cite the advocate witness rule. A motion to
disqualify can be made on the ground that the attorney is likely to be called
as a witness by their own client or by the opposing party at trial. (CRPC
Rule 3.7(a); Smith, Smith & Kring v. Superior Court (1997) 60
Cal.App.4th 573, 578–79.) California’s current version of the advocate-witness
rule provides: “A lawyer shall not act as an advocate in a trial in which the
lawyer is likely to be a witness unless: (1) the lawyer’s testimony relates to
an uncontested issue or matter; (2) the lawyer’s testimony relates to the
nature and value of legal services rendered in the case; or (3) the lawyer has
obtained informed written consent from the client.” (CPRC 3.7(a).) The court has
discretion, notwithstanding the client’s consent, to disqualify counsel who
seeks to both testify and serve as advocate in order to protect the opposing
party from being prejudiced. (CA Rules
Prof. Conduct, rule 3.7, comment 3; see Lyle v. Superior Court (1981)
122 Cal.App.3d 470, 482 [under prior rule, discretion to disqualify where there
is “convincing demonstration of detriment to the opposing party or injury to
the integrity of the judicial process”].)
 
The advocate-witness rule is intended, in
part, to prevent fact-finder confusion regarding whether an advocate-witness’s
statement is to be considered proof or argument. (People v. Donaldson
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 916, 928-29; see People ex rel. Younger v. Super. Ct.,
(1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 180, 196 [“the jury may have difficulty keeping properly
segregated the arguments of the attorney acting as advocate and his testimony
as a witness”].) The rule seeks to avoid “the jurors’ tying [counsel's]
persuasiveness as an advocate to his credibility as a witness ....” (Id.
at 196.)  In exercising its discretion to
disqualify counsel under the advocate-witness rule, courts must consider: (1)
whether counsel's testimony is, in fact, genuinely needed; (2) possibility
opposing counsel is using the motion to disqualify for purely tactical reasons;
and (3) the combined effects of the strong interest parties have in representation
by counsel of their choice, and in avoiding the duplicate expense and
time-consuming effort involved in replacing counsel already familiar with the
case. (Doe v. Yim, (2020) 55 Cal. App. 5th 573, 582–583.)
 
In Doe v. Yim, an ex-wife
represented her adult daughter in filing action against ex-husband, alleging
that ex-husband had sexually abused the daughter when she was a minor. (Id.
at 576-577.) The trial court properly disqualified the ex-wife from
representing the daughter where the ex-wife would be a “key witness at trial” based on the issues
presented by the pleadings. (Id. at 584.) The ex-wife’s dual role posed
the risk of prejudice to the ex-husband, in that the jury would be misled into
accepting her assertions during closing argument as evidence based on her
personal knowledge as a witness. (Id.) 
 
Here, Defendants cite the fact that
Mr. Schack is a percipient witness to the transactions underlying the dispute. Defendants
present evidence that Schack, as counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants since
at least 2019, handled nearly all communications regarding the events that “gave
rise to this Action,” including: handling all of the negotiations regarding the
lease and the amendments; negotiating with Defendants’ agents regarding finding
a subtenant; insisting on a 60 day notice to terminate the sublease; reviewing
and approving the MLS listing for the Property; advising Simmons regarding all
issues relating to the rental; evaluating potential subtenant candidates; retained
Defendants’ security deposit; and appointed Yemini as manager of Plaintiff. (Browning
Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 71, 165; Ex. 2 at pp. 168, 179, 187, 201, 204.) Defendants
reason that Mr. Schack would necessarily have knowledge of whether Plaintiff
delayed listing the Property after Defendants advised in November 2021 they
were moving out of the Property. Defendants insist this will make Schack “a
crucial witness at trial.”
 
Defendants argue that Schack is the
“only” witness with personal knowledge about “the events that led to this
Action[.]” Yet, Defendants do not explain why any of the above events would
reasonably be in dispute, such that counsel’s testimony on those subjects are
necessary. Any testimony as to the terms and negotiations of the lease are not germane
to Plaintiffs’ or Cross-Defendants’ pleadings. The complaint seeks damages
related to breach of the rental agreement, asserting that Defendants owe
approximately $625,000.00 in back rent. The first amended cross-complaint
alleges that Cross-Defendants took no steps to mitigate their damages by
adequately marketing the Property to find a suitable tenant, failed to take up
Cross-Complainants’ subtenancy offers, failed to return the $110,000.00 security
deposit, and failed to provide an itemized statement as required under statute
and contract. At best, Mr. Schack could be one of many witnesses who could provide
information on the negotiations, as well as foundation and authentication for
the lease, notices and appointment. The Court, however, questions whether such
foundational facts are in dispute, especially in light of Plaintiffs’ offer to stipulate
to such facts. As to the other facts, Defendants do not explain why Schack’s approval
of the MLS listing would be in dispute. Similarly, Defendants do not explain
how Schack would have unique knowledge that Cross-Defendants retained the
security deposit. Further, Defendants imply that they intend to seek
attorney-client privileged communications related to Schack’s advice to Simmons
regarding the rental. Importantly, Defendants themselves could provide much of
the above information. Therefore, the Court is not persuaded that Schack’s
testimony is genuinely needed. To the extent that his testimony would be, the
testimony would not relate to issues that are reasonably in dispute.  
 
Defendants also delayed in bringing this
motion despite knowing for years that Schack represented Plaintiffs throughout
the tenancy, suggesting a tactical purpose to this motion. This action was
initially brought over two years ago, on June 8, 2022. Defendants first
appeared in this action on August 5, 2022. Following an overruled demurrer,
Defendants answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint on December 16,
2022. At that point, Defendants already knew that Mr. Schack
“handled nearly all the communications” for Plaintiff regarding Defendants’
breach of the lease and unsuccessful search for a replacement tenant because
all of Mr. Schack’s communications regarding those topics were with Defendants’
representatives. (Schack Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) Thus, since the inception of this
action, Defendants/Cross-Complainants have been aware that Schack was a
percipient witness. Instead of promptly moving to disqualify at the outset,
Defendants waited until almost two years into the action to raise the issue.
 
The Court also finds that the risk
of Mr. Schack being called as a witness on any of the undisputed facts listed
above would be unlikely to create confusion, such that Defendants would be
prejudiced. On the contrary, if this motion is granted, then Defendants’ delay in
bringing this motion would cause clear prejudice to Plaintiffs, as
they would have to endure the duplicate expense and time-consuming effort involved in
replacing counsel already familiar with the case, so late into the case.
 
            Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.
 
            Finally,
after reading excerpts from the two depositions supplied by defense counsel, the
Court stresses to counsel that civility and effective advocacy are not mutually
exclusive ideals.  You can be a zealous
and aggressive advocate for your client without being rude or demeaning.  Counsel, however, must refrain at a deposition
from instructing his witnesses from answering non-privileged questions, inserting
lengthy speaking objections, or inserting demeaning commentary about opposing counsel.  While these issues are only peripherally
before the Court as to this motion, the Court stresses that civility and
evidentiary rules will be enforced in this courtroom, and urge counsel to take
note.       
 