 Case Number:  24SMCV01816    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Afsar, et al.,
v. Marrari Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV01816
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to Amend to File Second Amended Complaint
HEARING DATE:   7/2/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
If a party
wishes to amend a pleading after an answer has been filed, or after a demurrer
has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has
already amended the pleading as a matter of course, the party must obtain permission
from the court before amendment. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.) 
 
Motions
for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the
court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . ..” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP §
576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed
matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments
to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.”
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is
sought to add entirely new claims, the court may grant leave to amend if the
new claims are based on the same general set of facts, and the amendment will
not prejudice the opposing party. (Austin
v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding
trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint,
which originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction
where the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].)
 
Although
denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party. (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the
amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical
evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [leave properly
denied where plaintiff sought leave on the eve of trial, nearly two years after
the complaint was originally filed and gave no explanation for the delay which
prejudiced defendant who did not discover or depose many of the witnesses who would
support the new allegations and had not marshaled evidence in opposition of the
new allegations].)
 
Procedurally,
a motion for leave to amend must state with particularity what allegations are
to be amended. Namely, it must state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted and/or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,
and line number. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).) The motion must be accompanied
by a declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).) The motion must also be
accompanied by the proposed amended pleading, numbered to differentiate it from
the prior pleadings or amendments. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1).) It is within the
court’s discretion to require compliance with Rule 3.1324 before granting leave
to amend. (Hataishi v. First American Home Buyers Protection Corp. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1469.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Samaz Afsra, MSK, AK, and Saied Kashani
move for leave to file a proposed Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  Plaintiffs provide a copy of the proposed SAC
and a declaration in support. The declaration shows the effects of the
amendment. The SAC would not add any new parties or new causes of action. The
SAC seeks to add (a) alter ego allegations against the three defendants (see
SAC ¶¶ 2-3); and (b) facts supporting the claim for fraud, which came to light
only after the FAC was filed on May 9, 2024 (see SAC ¶¶ 87-90). Plaintiffs
assert that post-May 9, 2024, testing proved that Marrari lied to Plaintiff
that the original fuel pump on the subject vehicle needed replacement, and then
replaced the parts incorrectly, causing the subject fire. Plaintiffs demonstrate
that the proposed amendments could not reasonably have been brought sooner.
Plaintiffs also observe that the additional fraud allegations seek to correct
any deficiencies identified in the FAC by Defendants’ motion to strike.
 
Defendants oppose, asserting that
this motion is an attempt to delay this litigation by rendering their motion to
strike moot and bogging down this matter in the pleadings stage. Defendants argue
that any amendment would be prejudicial given that this case has trial
preference and trial is set for September 9, 2024. However, Defendants fail to identify any prejudice they would
suffer as a result of granting leave. First, the SAC does not expand any
issues, and thus does not implicate any delays for new discovery. Defendants
claim that this motion would keep the litigation in the pleading stages. Yet,
Defendants do not explain how this has or will prejudice their substantive defense.
Defendants may conduct discovery as normal whether or not the case is “at issue.”
Second, there is no reason to believe that this amendment is calculated to
delay this action. Defendants presumably believe that their motion to strike
will be successful, and result in the court striking the punitive damages
prayer in the FAC. The Court would then have to assess leave to amend, keeping
in mind the policy of liberality in amendment. Through the proposed SAC,
Plaintiffs shows a reasonable probability of successfully pleading a claim for
punitive damages under the statutory definition of fraud. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)
The SAC provides more details concerning the subject fraudulent
misrepresentations, including the falsity of the misrepresentations. (SAC ¶¶ 88-90.)
The Court would therefore
be obliged to provide Plaintiffs leave to file the proposed SAC if the motion
to strike was granted. On the other hand, if Defendants’ motion is unsuccessful,
the Court would still have to grant leave to file the SAC as requested by
Plaintiffs. Therefore, the interests of justice and judicial economy favors
amendment here. 
 
            As there is no
delay in amendment, and Defendants show no prejudice stemming from amendment,
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. 