 Case Number:  24SMCV01272    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Druz v. Green, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   24SMCV01272
MOTION:                  Motion to Strike 
HEARING DATE:   5/21/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants James Green and Joyce Green move to strike Plaintiff
Danielle Druz’s  request for punitive
damages. 
 
Here, the complaint does not plead sufficient facts to support a
claim of punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294. Section 3294 defines
malice as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,”
or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.) Despicable is a
powerful term used to describe circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or
“contemptible.” (Coll. Hosp. v. Superior Ct. (1994) 9 Cal.4th 704, 726.)
The statute “plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
“malice” requires more than a “willful and conscious” disregard of the
plaintiffs' interests. The additional component of “despicable conduct” must be
found.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s generic allegations concerning Defendants’
negligence do not rise to the level of despicable conduct for malice that has
been recognized in habitability claims. The complaint generally alleges that
Plaintiff is a tenant at the subject property, and that the dwelling unit
“suffered from defects that render it untenantable. Most serious
amongst these defects is the presence of mold, caustic-conditions, throughout
the Property created an untenantable situation as well as potential and/or
actual exposure. Despite notice of the condition by third parties, Defendants
have failed to promptly remedy situation, and instead retaliated against and
caused damage to Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶7.) The Complaint then provides for
conclusory allegations of the elements of negligence, breach of the warranty of
habitability, and an anti-harassment ordinance. Each cause of action generally
claims that Defendants failed to timely address habitability issues. (See
Compl., ¶¶ 12, 18, 22.) Caselaw requires a higher degree of
factual specificity and reprehensible conduct to plead punitive damages claim.
 
 For example, in Stoiber, the court
found that a plaintiff could recover punitive damages for numerous persistent
uninhabitable conditions where she repeatedly notified the defendants. (Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921.) The plaintiff alleged
specific conditions, including heavy cockroach infestation, broken interior
walls, broken deteriorated flooring on front porch, falling ceiling,
deteriorated, overfused electrical wiring, lack of proper plumbing connection
to sewage system in bathroom, sewage under bathroom floor, leaking roof, broken
windows, and fire hazard. (Ibid.) Despite notice, the defendants
knowingly, intentionally and willfully failed to correct the defective
conditions by not even attempting to repair the defects, except on one occasion
where they sent a plumber in response to a complaint regarding the toilet. (Id.
at 913.) In Erlach, punitive damages were appropriately pled against
a landlord that had turned off tenant's utilities and prevented the
tenant from returning to the property. (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing,
LLC¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281.)
 
The complaint does not allege any facts
showing that the maintenance of the unhabitable conditions was intentional or
willful. Moreover, negligent maintenance of a premises does not sound in malice
or oppression, absent further facts showing an intent to harm or truly despicable
conduct. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike
is GRANTED with leave to amend.