 Case Number:  20STCV38944    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV38944




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order to Compel Adrian Hernandez to Appear for a Mental
  Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants County of Los Angeles, Justin
  Ortiz, and the Los Angeles Dodgers Foundation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Adrian
  Hernandez  



 
 
MOTION
 
            On October 13, 2020, Plaintiff
Adrian
Hernandez, a minor (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging injuries after
being struck in the face with a baseball bat on June 21, 2019. 
 
             Defendants County of Los Angeles, Justin
Ortiz, and the Los Angeles Dodgers Foundation (“Defendants”) now move to compel
Plaintiff to submit to a mental examination with Lev Gottlieb, Ph.D, a licensed
neuropsychologist, on December 3, 2024. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply.

 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
“If the
place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person
to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the
following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The
court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved.
(2) The
order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable
expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.320(e).) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Kaelyn L. Keller, Defendants’ counsel, states that
on September 6, 2024, an attorney from the office sent a meet and confer letter
regarding the exam. (Keller Decl. ¶ 13, Exh. 15.) No further effort to meet and
confer is described. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, on July 26, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’
previous motion to compel Plaintiffs mental examination, finding that
Defendants “failed to sufficiently describe why Dr. Gottlieb is necessary for
the examination” given that his office is over 75 miles from Plaintiff’s
residence. (Min. Order, 7/26/24.) The Court also found that the motion did not “set
forth the scope and nature of the examination with particularity” such as the
diagnostic procedures and tests to be conducted. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants
do not discuss the propriety of seeking leave for the mental examination after
the July 26, 2024 motion was denied. Code of Civil Procedure section 1008
limits a party’s ability to file repetitive motions. (Le Francois v. Goel
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1104.) “This section specifies the court's jurisdiction
with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1008(e).) The burden under Section 1008 for a motion to renew “is comparable
to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered
evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13; Even
Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement
of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but
also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the
new or different information earlier…”].) 
 
Nevertheless,
even if the motion is proper, Defendants have not shown good cause of the additional
distance.
 
Defendants again argue there is good cause for Plaintiff to travel beyond
the 75-mile limit to Dr. Gottleib’s office. Dr. Gottlieb’s office is in Santa
Monica and Plaintiff lives in Palm Springs. The distance between the two is 119
miles, which is 44 miles over the 75-mile limit; Defendants assert the
additional distance is not burdensome or unrealistic. Defendants again contend
good cause exists to allow the examination since Plaintiff filed this action in
Los Angeles County where the incident occurred and was living in the City of
Los Angeles when the incident occurred. They also assert that Dr. Gottlieb can
only conduct the exam in his office. (Motion, 13.) Defendants also point out
that Plaintiff’s retained neuropsychologist expert is located in Seal Beach,
which they contend is farther than Dr. Gottlieb’s office.[1]
Lastly, they argue that Dr. Gottlieb is located 16 miles from this courthouse,
which will allow him to testify at trial. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff again does not object to the mental
examination, but rather its location since it is over 75 miles from his
residence. Plaintiff also asserts that Defendants have not adequately described
the tests to be performed. 
 
Here, Defendants have adequately listed the tests to be performed.
(See Motion, 9.) In light of Plaintiff’s position that there is no objection to
Dr. Gottlieb performing the examination, the parties are ordered to further
meet and confer. 
 
 


