 Case Number:  20STCV15459    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV15459




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval of Compromise for Person with a Disability 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Christel Reyna




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on October 22, 2024 by Petitioner Christel Reyna (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Rafael Reyna, age 51, a person with a disability. The Court denies the petition without
prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner is the conservator of Claimant’s estate and
person. 
 
Petitioner
must complete item 11b(2), 11b(3), and 11b(4). 
 
Petitioner requests attorney fees. The attorney
declaration must contain more discussion of the factors in California Rules of
Court, rule 7.995(b) in order to justify the amount.
 
Petitioner must complete items 14 and 15.
 
Since it appears the attorney is representing another
party in this case, the response in item 17e must be changed and attachment 17e
must be provided. 
 
In the Proposed Order (MC-351), item 8a(1) should be
marked. The amount in item 8a(5) should be written in item 8a(2), instead. Item
8a(5) should instead contain the sum of values in 8a(1)-8a(3). Item 8b(2)
should also describe the method (and value) stated in item 18a(1) of the
petition. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 