 Case Number:  22STCV02588    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV02588




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Nakeithia Robinson




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court
has reviewed the petition filed on October 24, 2024 by Petitioner Nakeithia
Robinson (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Khalon Madison, age 16. The Court denies the petition without
prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
On
September 26, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion to remove Tavis Lurry
as the guardian ad litem for Khalon Madison, and instructed Plaintiffs to file
a new application to appoint a guardian ad litem. The application filed on
October 16, 2024 was rejected. (See Notice of Rejection, filed 10/16/24.)
Therefore, Petitioner must make the corrections identified in the Notice of
Rejection and file a new application to appoint a guardian ad litem. 
 
In the
event Petitioner is appointed guardian ad litem in the future, Petitioner must
file a petition using the most updated form MC-350 (revised Jan. 1, 2021). Note
the item numbers in the updated form will vary from this petition. This is the
second time this defect has been identified. (See Min. Order, 4/9/24.) Additionally,
the Court notes the following defects: 
 
This case involves a motor vehicle
accident that occurred on January 23, 2020, while Claimant was a passenger on a
tour bus. The medical records show that on the date of the accident, Claimant
was transported by ambulance to Long Beach Memorial, suffering from head trauma
and visible bleeding. Claimant then left the hospital against the advice of
medical providers because Claimant’s mother stated they needed to make their
return flight home to Florida. Upon returning to Florida, Claimant was seen at
the emergency room on January 27, 2020 complaining of mid-back pain and
headache. Claimant was prescribed ibuprofen and discharged. Petitioner also
includes a medical report from Chiropractic Clinics of South Florida P.L.,
dated March 10, 2020, diagnosing Claimant with traumatic cervicalgia injury and
traumatic lumbago injury and recommending treatment. This is the most recent
medical record. Therefore, Petitioner must include recent records, or
other evidence verifying that Claimant is fully recovered from his injuries.

 
The amount in item 11a must
be the total settlement offered to Claimant, which according to 11c is $10,000.

 
Petitioner requests $4,000 in attorney fees which
represents 40% of the gross settlement. However, the Court finds this amount is
not supported by the declaration of counsel. The Court would approve 33% based
on the information provided. 
 
Since Petitioner selected
item 15a, she should not complete the values in 15b. 
 
Petitioner checks item 19a, stating there
is a guardianship of the estate of the minor. It does not appear on the face of
the record that there is a guardianship of the estate (this is different from a
guardian ad litem). If this is true, then Petitioner should select 19b2, and
provide attachment 19b2.   
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), item 6b
must be marked, and the gross settlement ($10,000) must be written in item 6.
The $263.43 in non-medical expenses to be reimbursed should be
written in item 8a(2). The value for item 8a(5) must be completed. Item 9a must
be completed. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the
petition without prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give
notice and file a proof of service of such.
 