 Case Number:  22STCV36104    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV36104




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Discharging Stakeholders and for Orders Awarding Costs and Fees,
  and for Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants That’s Your Ballgame LLC and
  Matthew Todd Cooper




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a consolidated action stemming from an incident that occurred on
August 28, 2022 at the Move for MDS Walk in Griffith Park, Los Angeles. (See
Min. Order, 3/19/24.) All the plaintiffs allege injuries that occurred after an
LED wall allegedly fell on attendees. 
 
The four consolidated cases are 22STCV36104 (Iraca et al. v. That’s
Your Ballgame LLC, et al.), 22STCV36727 (Geltch v. That’s Your Ballgame,
LLC, et al.), 23STCV03426 (Butchko v. TSV Sound & Vision LLC, et al.),
and 23STCV04630 (Cottrell, et al. v. TSV Sound & Vision LLC, et al.)
 
Defendants That’s Your Ballgame LLC and Matthew Todd Cooper
(“Defendants”) now move for an order to deposit their settlement of $1,020,000
with the Court until the Plaintiffs in the consolidated cases agree on an apportionment;
that they be discharged from further liability; dismissed from the cases; and
be awarded $2,250 in costs and attorney fees. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 386, subdivision (b) provides
that: “Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom
double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more persons
which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability, may
bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate
their several claims.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).)  “When
the person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom such
claims are made, or may be made, is a defendant in an action brought upon one
or more of such claims, it … may bring a separate action against the claimants
to compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.  The
action of interpleader may be maintained although the claims have not a common
origin, are not identical but are adverse to and independent of one another, or
the claims are unliquidated and no liability on the part of the party bringing
the action or filing the cross–complaint has arisen.”  (Ibid.) 
“Where the only relief sought against one of the defendants
is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be wrongfully withheld,
such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere stakeholder with no
interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands have
been made upon him for the amount by parties to the action, upon notice to such
parties, apply to the court for an order discharging him from liability and
dismissing him from the action on his depositing with the clerk of the court
the amount in dispute and the court may, in its discretion, make such
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 386.6 adds, in pertinent part:
 
“A party to an action
who follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his
motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the discharge
of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and
reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited
with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make
such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or
more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 386.6, subd. (a).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants and Plaintiffs in the Iraca, Geltch, Butchko,
and Cottrell actions, have agreed to a settlement for $1,000,000 and
$5,000 medical expense coverage per claimant. (Pardo Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) However,
the agreement has not been executed because Plaintiffs have not agreed on an
apportionment of the settlement funds. (Id. ¶ 6.) According to
Defendants, the Plaintiffs have agreed to interpleading the funds until the
apportionment is resolved. (Id., Exh. E.) 
 
It appears notice has been served on each of the adverse claimants to
the funds pursuant to section 386.5. The supporting declaration for this motion
states that “Movants claim no interest in the money described above and wish to
deposit the same with this Court and to be discharged from any further
liability to any of said claimants.” (Pardo Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
No opposition has been filed. Therefore, because Defendants have
disclaimed any interest in the settlement funds, the motion to deposit the
funds with the Court, be discharged from liability, and dismissed, is granted. 
 
Defendants also seek $2,250 in reimbursement for attorney fees under
section 386.6. This represents a $450 hourly rate for five hours of work. The
Court finds this amount is excessive given the type of motion and because it is
unopposed. Therefore, the Court reduces attorney fees to $900 (two hours at the
$450 hourly rate). Because this amount will be subtracted from the $1,020,000
settlement, the new amount to be deposited with the Court is $1,019,100.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Motion for Order Discharging Stakeholders and for
Orders Awarding Costs and Fees, and for Dismissal is GRANTED. Defendants may
deposit the $1,019,100 settlement funds with the Court. 
 
Upon
deposit, Defendants will be dismissed from the above consolidated action. Defendants
shall file and serve a proposed order upon deposit.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 