 Case Number:  20STCV43582    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV43582




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and All Trial-Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  City of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Alejandro Nieves, Jr. 



 
MOTION
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) moves to continue trial
and all related dates.[1] Plaintiff
Alejandro Nieves, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on November
12, 2020. Trial was initially set for May 12, 2022.
 
            The first amended complaint (“FAC”)
was filed on January 19, 2021. 
 
            Defendant’s answer was filed on
March 11, 2021. 
 
            On May 6, 2022, the Court granted
Defendant’s ex parte application and continued trial and all related dates to
May 18, 2023. The Court noted: “[n]o further continuance of the trial absent
sufficient good cause.” (Min. Order, 5/6/22.) 
 
            On June 6, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s ex parte application and continued trial to September 20, 2023. All
discovery remained closed except for the completion of agreed upon physical
examinations of plaintiffs and completion of expert witness depositions. The
pre-trial discovery motion cut-off remained in effect except for motions
related to physical examinations and expert witness depositions. (Min. Order,
6/6/23.) 
 
            On August 24, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application and continued trial to July 15, 2024. All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut off dates were associated with the new trial
date. The Court noted: “[n]o further continuance of the trial date absent
sufficient good cause.” (Min. Order, 8/24/23.)
 
            On June 11, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to November 4,
2024. The Court also ordered: “[n]o further continuance absent sufficient good
cause.” 
 
            On October 4, 2024, the Court
continued trial to December 3, 2024. All discovery deadlines remained
associated with the previous trial date. (Min. Order, 10/4/24.)
             
             On November 5, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference. The trial for this case remained set
for December 3, 2024, but shall not proceed later than March 5, 2025. (Min.
Order, 11/5/24.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
In determining whether to reopen
discovery, the court must consider the necessity of and reasons for the
additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the party seeking to
reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to the cutoff,
whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going forward on
the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past continuances
of the trial date.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)¿¿¿ 
 
“Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party's attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.
Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one
continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (f).) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant asks the Court to continue trial and all related dates to
January 13, 2025 or a later date convenient for the Court. 
 
Defendant argues that its lead counsel, Joshua Quinones, developed
kidney stones and was forced to take medical leave for approximately one month
starting September 1, 2024, which delayed the final discovery needed in this
case. When Mr. Quinones returned to work on October 1, 2024, he discovered that
Plaintiff’s former teachers from Kipp Academy, Cheyenne Wallace and Tiara
McCain, are no longer employed with Kipp Academy. Defendant seeks a continuance
to depose these individuals and identify other witnesses that have personal
knowledge of Plaintiff’s academic performance after the incident. Plaintiff is
alleging a traumatic brain injury. However, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant
knew that Plaintiff attended Kipp Academy as early as August 2023. (Opp., 5;
Valerio Decl., Exh. 1.) Though Defendant argues in reply that while its counsel
knew of Plaintiff’s attendance at Kipp, he necessarily did not know it was
important. (See Reply, 4.) However, Defendant’s supporting declaration to the
motion shows that he knew of Plaintiff’s traumatic brain injury claim as early
as August 2023. (Quinones Decl. ¶ 9.) Therefore, he fails to adequately explain
why he should not have known that Plaintiff’s teachers would be relevant to
Plaintiff’s damages claim. 
 
Defendant also seeks to investigate Plaintiff’s treatment at Centre
for Neuro Skills (“CNS”). According to Defendant, in August 2024, Plaintiff
represented that Plaintiff never enrolled in the CNS program; yet, on September
16, 2024, Plaintiff designated two individuals from CNS as expert witnesses.
Defendant notes this was served during Mr. Quinones’ unplanned leave. However,
in opposition, Plaintiff asserts that on October 16, 2024, Plaintiff’s expert
from CNS was deposed, undermining the need for further discovery. (Opp., 2.)
Furthermore, Plaintiff contends he never treated at CNS, but merely underwent
an evaluation. 
 
Based on the procedural history above, the discovery deadlines are
associated with the November 4, 2024 trial date. (See Min. Order, 10/4/24.)
Therefore, all discovery deadlines have now passed. While Defendant asks for a
continuance of trial and all trial-related dates to conduct additional
discovery, it has not cited or discussed section 2024.050 to also reopen
discovery, in its motion.[2]
 
Therefore,
Defendant has not made an adequate showing that reopening discovery is
warranted. In particular, Defendant has not adequately explained the necessity
for the discovery or its diligence in seeking it. The remaining two factors,
the likelihood that permitting the discovery will prevent the case going to
trial, and the length of time that has elapsed, weigh in favor of Plaintiff.
 
As
a result, the motion to continue trial, which is based on the need to reopen
discovery, is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue trial and all related
dates.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 


