  Case Number:  20STCV10499    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV10499




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval
  of Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Ernesto G. Martinez, Jr. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition for approval of compromise for
a person with a disability filed on October 31, 2024 by
Petitioner Ernesto G. Martinez, Jr. (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Kimberly
Martinez, age 33. The Court
denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner requests $166,666 in attorney fees which represents
33.33% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be reasonable.

 
Petitioner must correct the following
defects pertaining to the proposed trust instrument:¿ 
 
·       When seeking
approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice of the hearing and service of
the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the Dept. of
Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care
Services.  (Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). The agencies require
15 days’ notice by mail. Here, there is no such proof of service indicating
service upon the state agencies and service is incomplete. This is the second
time this defect has been identified by the Court. (See Min. Order, 10/24/24.)
Petitioner must provide the appropriate notice in the subsequent petition.
 
The following deficiencies are present in
the Proposed Order (MC-351):¿ 
 
The General Trust orders made in item 13
of the proposed order should be included in an extra attachment, rather than attempting
to fit all the information in the limited space. Therefore, what is written in
item 13 should be written in the attachment, along with the additional
corrections described below.
 
The required Probate Code 3604(b)
findings should be included in the proposed order.
Item 13 states the court should set an OSC
in approximately 60 days. Instead, Petitioner should include language that an “OSC in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse is set for _____” (and include
blank spaces for the date/time).  
 
The Proposed Order correctly requires a $358,000 bond submitted
by the trustee to this department.   
 
To the extent a SNT is no longer
requested, Petitioner must correct the above deficiencies regarding the
petition.¿ 
 
¿ 
Accordingly, the Court continues
the hearing to December 18, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. A revised petition must be filed and served by December 3,
2024.¿ 
¿ 
Petitioner
shall give notice and file a proof of service of such.¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 