  Case Number:  21STCV05201    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                                                         Wednesday, October 11, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                                                                    Calendar No. 14
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Liam Umer, et al. v. Newvac Lift, LLC, et al.
            21STCV05201 
1.      RD
Waldman Construction, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment       
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            RD
Waldman Construction, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is denied. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed
the Complaint on February 9, 2021. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs
were on the premises located at 441 23rd Street, Manhattan Beach, CA 90266. Plaintiff
Liam Umer, a minor, was using an elevator installed by Defendant RD Waldman
Construction, Inc. Plaintiff Liam Umer’s left arm was caught on the metal
framing of the PVE vacuum elevator causing him to suffer injuries to his left
arm and hand. Defendants Joseph Odekerken and Joris Dasen were the owners of
the subject property. Odekerken was substituted for DOE 2 on April 5, 2023.
Dasen was substituted for DOE 1 on June 9, 2023. 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
The purpose of a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with
a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for
summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a
prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467.
 
“When deciding
whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that
evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendant RD
Waldman moves for summary judgment on the grounds that the Complaint is barred
in its entirety by the Completed and Accepted Doctrine.  
 
Completed
and Accepted Doctrine
 
As a general
rule, after a contractor completes a task and the owner has accepted the work,
a contractor is not liable to third persons for injury caused by the condition
of the work done, even if done negligently. 
Sanchez v. Swinerton & Walberg
Co. (1996) 47 Cal. App. 4th 1461, 1466. 
However, an exception to this rule exists:
 
“[T]he
contractor is liable if the work done and turned over by him is so negligently
defective as to be imminently dangerous to third persons, provided the
contractor knows, or should know, of the dangerous situation created by him,
and the owner does not know ... and would not discover it by reasonable
inspection.”  Id. at 1466-67.  
 
Therefore, the
liability of a contractor for negligence depends on whether the defect is
latent.  See, Id. at 1470.  The basis
for this doctrine is that “an owner has a duty to inspect the work and
ascertain its safety, and thus the owner's acceptance of the work shifts
liability for its safety to the owner, provided that a reasonable inspection
would disclose the defect.”  Jones v. P.S. Dev. Co. (2008) 166 Cal.
App. 4th 707, 712 (overruled on other grounds in Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 532). 
 
Defendant argues
that there is no triable issue of material fact that the alleged defect herein
– a missing internal safety door - was patent.  “[T]he test to determine whether a
construction defect is patent is an objective test that asks ‘whether the
average consumer, during the course of a reasonable inspection, would discover
the defect....’ This test generally presents a question of fact, unless the
defect is obvious in the context of common experience; then a determination of
patent defect may be made as a matter of law (including on summary judgment).” Creekridge Townhome Owners Assn., Inc. v. C.
Scott Whitten, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 251, 256.
 
In Sanchez, a subcontractor was found not
liable in a slip-and-fall case as the defect created by the subcontractor was a
patent defect, not a latent defect.  See, Sanchez, 47 Cal. App. 4th at
1470.   The defect in Sanchez was a one-half inch deep pool of
water created by a depression in the concrete landing that the contractors
negligently poured.  Id.  The Court in Sanchez found that this defect was
patent as a matter of law as “the presence of standing water … would have been
obvious and apparent to any reasonably observant person, as would the danger
that the water might create slippery surfaces and cause one to slip and fall.”  Id
at 1470.
Defendant argues
that the defect at issue here was patent: the lack of an internal safety door
in the PVE.  However, in the instant
action, a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the alleged
defect was patent or latent.  Plaintiffs
have set forth material disputed facts, supported with evidence, that
Defendants created a defect on the property and that the defect was latent, and
not obvious.
 
Plaintiffs have
provided evidence to establish the existence of a triable issue of material
fact as to whether a reasonable homeowner would have determined that the typical
PVE even included an internal safety door. The average homeowner may not have
been able to determine whether the installation of the elevator was defective
without this safety door. In fact, Plaintiffs provide evidence that the owner
questioned moving Defendant regarding what appeared to be simply a stray
extraneous part (which ultimately, unknown to the owners, turned out to be the
subject missing safety door), and Defendant told the owners to simply throw that
part away.  (Plaintiffs’ Additional
Material Facts and Supporting Evidence, E-M.)
 
Here, a triable
issue of fact exists as to whether the alleged defect was apparent by a
reasonable inspection.  The defect here
was the lack of an internal safety door.  However, an average homeowner may not have
known that an internal safety door was required for this type of elevator.  And, as noted above, the owners in this
instance did not even know that a safety door was not installed and was not
sure what to do about this unknown extraneous part that was left behind.  Making matters worse, moving Defendant told
the owners to simply throw away this essential safety door.  (Plaintiffs’ Additional Material Facts and
Supporting Evidence, E-M.)  
 
Based on the
disputed evidence, the issue of whether the defect in question here is patent
or latent presents a triable issue of fact. 
The defect is not so obvious in the context of common experience that a determination
that the defect in question is patent can be made as a matter of law to grant
summary judgment in favor of Defendant.  Thus,
it is for the trier of fact to determine if an owner, upon a reasonable
inspection, would have discovered the dangerous condition upon a reasonable
inspection.   Therefore, whether or not the defect is patent presents a
question of fact.  Creekridge Townhome
Owners Association v. C. Scott Whitten, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 251,
256 (stating that the test of whether the defect is latent or patent generally
presents an issue of fact).  
 
Thus, a triable
issue of fact exists as to whether this alleged defect is a patent defect or a
latent defect, and as to whether the alleged defect would have been apparent
through a reasonable inspection.  “If an
owner, fulfilling the duty to inspection cannot discover the defect, then the
owner cannot effectively represent to the world that the construction is
sufficient, he lacks adequate information to do so.”  Neiman
v. Leo A. Daly Co. (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 962, 969.   
 
 Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
have met their burden to provide specific facts to show the existence of a
triable issue of material fact as to their causes of action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2). Thus, Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment is denied.
 
Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice of this ruling.