 Case Number:  23STCV30231    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
FREDDY
  BONILLA, an individual, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
JUAN
  MANUEL LOPEZ, an individual, and DOES 1 through 100 inclusive, 
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV30231
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 12/12/2023
Trial
  Date: TBD
 
 



 
Hearing date:              September 26, 2023
Moving Party:             Alfred M. Freitas (Attorney);
Responding
Party:      Freddy Bonilla (Plaintiff)
 
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
 
The court has
considered the moving papers.  
The motion is GRANTED
Background
             Counsel Alfred M. Freitas (Counsel) moves to
be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Freddy Bonilla (Plaintiff).
Legal Standard 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 284 states that an attorney in an
action may be changed at any time before or after judgment: (1) upon the
consent of both client and attorney; or (2) upon the order of the court, upon
the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the
other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284; Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1362.) The court has power
to permit withdrawal of an attorney within its sound discretion.¿(Jones v.
Green¿(1946) 74 Cal.App.2d 223, 230.) An attorney may withdraw without
cause as long as the withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to
the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point, but
if the case is not at a critical point withdrawal is permitted because the
client will not be prejudiced.¿(Ramirez v. Sturdevant¿(1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
Counsel
must make a motion to be¿relieved¿as attorney of record. The form, content and
service of such motion are governed by the Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to
be¿Relieved¿as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed
Order (MC-053).
Discussion
             Counsel has filed the proper documents
regarding the client. Although the proposed order does not include the hearing
for Status Conference re Default Judgment on 10/28/2024 the court may correct
this error. The proposed order also incorrectly states that counsel personally
served the client, however, counsel has filed proof of service of the documents
upon the client via certified first-class mail. Again, the court can correct this.
The declaration submitted in connection with the motion confirms that Counsel
has served Plaintiff at a current address, confirmed as current in a meeting
with Plaintiff within the past 30 days. This is sufficient. 
            Counsel
also provides the grounds for the motion. He states he must be relieved because
“[t]here has been an irremediable breakdown in the relationship between
attorney and client wherein client is no longer cooperating in providing
assistance in the defense of the action. The precise nature of the breakdown
cannot fully be disclosed without potentially violating the attorney- client
privilege or the duties owed by attorney to client.” (Freitas Decl., at p. 1.)
The court finds counsel has presented sufficient good cause to grant the
motion. Further, it does not appear that the client will be unduly prejudiced
by the relief requested. 
            As
such, the motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
            Counsel
Alfred M. Freitas is relieved as counsel for plaintiff Freddy Bonilla effective
upon filing proof of service of this order. 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
September 26, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court