  Case Number:  23STCV11535    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Daniel Meza,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:

 


 
23STCV11535




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




 
American Honda
  Motor Co., Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: July
11, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Bifurcate
Moving Party: Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Daniel Meza
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS GRANTED IN PART.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing.
            The Court considers the moving
papers and opposition. No reply has been received.
BACKGROUND
            
            On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff Daniel Meza sued Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc., asserting causes of action for (1) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) fraudulent inducement –
concealment. 
 
            Defendant
moves to bifurcate trial.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Civil Code § 3295(d) provides, “[t]he court shall, on application of any
defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant's profits or
financial condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for
plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section 3294. Evidence of
profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to the defendant or
defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be guilty of malice,
oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be
presented to the same trier of fact that found for the plaintiff and found one
or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.”


Defendant
moves for an order bifurcating trial between a liability/compensatory damages
phase and a punitive damages phase. Defendant also seeks an order prohibiting “any
reference, comment, argument and/or evidence related to Defendant’s profits or
financial condition during the first phase of the trial, such as arguments to
the effect that Defendant “deserves to be punished” or should be ‘made an
example of.’”
Pursuant
to Civil Code § 3295(d), the Court will bifurcate the amount of punitive
damage, which will be determined in a Phase 2. No evidence of Defendant’s profits
and financial condition will be admitted in Phase 1. The jury will determine
entitlement to punitive damages in Phase 1. The Court will address any other requests
to exclude evidence made in a motion in limine. 
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is GRANTED IN PART.
 
 