  Case Number:  22BBCV01288    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 24,
2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01288

 



MP:  


Burbank Community YMCA (Defendant)




RP:  


W. Roe (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is
requesting oral argument on this matter.  Parties are requested to address
the issue of “foreseeability” and the application Youth Soccer, infra and
DCFS, infra to this summary judgment. 
Given the request for argument and that the Court is unexpectedly
handling two civil courtroom calendars, the matter will be heard at 10:00 AM.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
W. Roe (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Burbank Community YMCA (YMCA). Plaintiff alleges
that he regularly attended the YMCA in 1987 to swim after school. Plaintiff
alleges that during this time he became acquainted with a lifeguard at the YMCA
identified here by the name “Steve”. Plaintiff claims that one day in 1987 Steve
sexually assaulted Plaintiff. 
 
Before the Court is
motion for summary judgment brough by YMCA. Plaintiff opposes the motion and
YMCA replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff
states three causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligent Hiring, (3)
Negligent Supervision. 
 
In
order to prevail in his negligence action against YMCA Plaintiff “…must show
the defendant owed a legal duty to her, the defendant breached that duty, and
the breach proximately caused injury to the plaintiff. A defendant does not owe
a legal duty to protect against third party conduct unless there exists a
special relationship between the defendant and the plaintiff. In that
circumstance, in addition to the special relationship there must also be
evidence showing facts from which the trier of fact could reasonably infer that
the defendant had prior actual knowledge, and thus must have known, of the
offender's assaultive propensities. In short, the third party's misconduct must
be foreseeable to the defendant.” (Doe v. Los Angeles County Dept. of
Children & Family Services (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 675, 682.) "In
cases involving minors, courts generally have recognized a special relationship
where adults and organizations acted as 'quasi-parents' by assuming
responsibility for the safety of [minors] whose parents were not present."
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal. App. 5th
657, 671 (quoting United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.
App. 5th 1118, 1130).
 
Likewise,
to prevail in his causes of action for negligent hiring and negligent supervision,
Plaintiff must show “(1) the employer’s hiring,
retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or
unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist
because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs.” (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th
828, 836-837.)
 
YMCA
brings this motion for summary judgment, arguing that no triable issue of fact
exists as to the foreseeability of Plaintiff’s abuse at the hands of Steve.
Indeed, foreseeability is a required factor to be shown in each of Plaintiff’s
causes of action. YMCA argues that no evidence exists as to whether Steve’s
abuse of Plaintiff was “foreseeable” as established by Rowland. (See Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113 [A departure from this
fundamental principle involves the balancing of a number of considerations; the
major ones are the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff…].) 
 
The
foreseeability determination under Rowland has been clarified by the
more recent Supreme Court ruling in Regents of the University of California
v. Superior Court (Regents). There the court held that “in examining
foreseeability the court's task is not to decide whether a particular
plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a particular
defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether the category
of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of
harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed.” (Regents of
University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 629
[internal citations and quotation marks omitted].) Thus, the question this
motion presents is not whether the evidence shows YMCA was aware of Steve’s
propensity to sexually abuse children, it is instead whether the evidence shows
that YMCA was aware that the abuse of children in their care was reasonably
foreseeable in general. 
 
In
looking at the Rowland factors, courts start by determining whether it
was foreseeable that an employee would sexually abuse another. An affirmative
duty to take action to control the wrongful acts of an employee is imposed only
in instances where the conduct can be reasonably anticipated. In other words,
the reasonableness standard test is predicated upon the degree of
foreseeability.  If the foreseeability is
high enough, then courts will impose on a defendant the duty to act on it. “Courts
use a ‘sliding-scale balancing formula’ under which ‘imposition of a high
burden requires heightened foreseeability, but a minimal burden may be imposed
upon a showing of a lesser degree of foreseeability.’ (Delgado v. Trax Bar
& Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 243.) Heightened foreseeability can be
shown by evidence of prior similar criminal incidents or “other indications of
a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults … .” (Doe v.
United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1131.)
 
In
the context of child sexual abuse, California Courts have issued a wide variety
of opinions discussing foreseeability. The case primarily relied upon by YMCA
is Doe v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Children & Family Services (DCFS).
The plaintiff in DCFS alleged that she had been assaulted by members of
the foster family with whom she had been placed by the non-profit agency Children’s
Institute. (DCFS supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at 679.) The court first
acknowledged that in order for Children’s Institute to have a duty for purposes
of a negligence action, it was necessary to establish that a special
relationship existed between themselves and plaintiff. (Id. at 682.)
Having established that the plaintiff and Children’s Institute had such a
relationship, the court turned to considerations of whether evidence of
foreseeability had been shown. (Id. at 683.)  
 
Children’s
Institute argued that the evidence of the case pointed to the opposite of
foreseeability, as the plaintiff had told DCFS directly that this placement was
“the best one she had ever had” (Id. at 684.) Plaintiff maintained that
despite the lack of actual knowledge by Children’s Institute, the harm to her
was still foreseeable by virtue of Children’s Institute failing to institute
safeguards to protect from child sexual abuse in general. (Id.) In
making this argument, plaintiff relied upon the holding in Doe v. United
States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (Youth Soccer). As Youth Soccer
is a case relied upon by Plaintiff here, the Court finds a summary would be
helpful. 
 
Youth Soccer concerned a plaintiff
asserting a cause of action for negligence against her soccer organization
after she was sexually abused by one of her instructors. (Doe v. United
States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1122.) The
defendant did not deny that a special relationship existed between themselves
and the plaintiff, but they did argue that the harm was not foreseeable under Rowland.
(Id. at 1131.) The court observed that “California courts have
frequently recognized special relationships between children and their adult
caregivers that give rise to a duty to prevent harms caused by the intentional
or criminal conduct of third parties.” (Id. at 1129.) However, the court
also held that “a duty to take affirmative action to control the wrongful acts
of a third party will be imposed only where such conduct can be reasonably
anticipated. Basically, the reasonableness standard is a test which determines
if, in the opinion of a court, the degree of foreseeability is high enough to
charge the defendant with the duty to act on it.” (Id. at 1131 [internal
quotation marks and citation omitted.] 
 
The Youth
Soccer court held that the evidence indicated abuse of minors participating
in the program was indeed a foreseeable occurrence. The Youth Soccer plaintiff
had presented evidence that the organization was “aware of incidents of
physical and sexual abuse of US Youth Soccer's members by its coaches at a
steady yearly rate of between 2 and 5 per year.” (Id. at 1132.) Further,
the court considered the fact that the organization had issued literature and
created programs around the potential sexual abuse of their child participants.
(Id.) From these showings, the court concluded that the organization had
ample knowledge of the general risk of sexual abuse of children participating
in their programs. (Id.) 
 
Turning
back to DCFS, the court there contrasted its own evidentiary showings
with those in Youth Soccer. The DCFS court found that the alleged
safeguards that Children’s Institute failed to implement had little to no
propensity to reveal the potential for child sexual abuse. (LADCFS supra 37
Cal.App.5th at 685 [“Children's Institute's failure to conduct a
home study, enforce capacity limits, follow up on the removal of a bed, or
provide adequate training would not have led to information about the Winston brothers’
criminal propensities.”].) The Court contrasted this to the alleged failures to
safeguard in Youth Soccer, which bore a close relationship to the
potential for child sexual abuse. (Youth Soccer supra, at 1137 [“The
connection between plaintiff’s harm and defendants’ failure to conduct a
criminal background check was close. If defendants had conducted a criminal
background check of Fabrizio, his prior conviction for domestic violence would
have been discovered and it would have been highly unlikely that he would have
been hired. Thus, he would have had far fewer, if any, opportunities to
sexually abuse plaintiff.].) 
 
From
DCFS and Youth Soccer it can be understood that a plaintiff with
a cause of action for negligence stemming from child sexual abuse must
demonstrate: 
 
(1)  
Evidence that the harm of child sexual abuse was a
generally foreseeable phenomenon by the employer/organization to be held
accountable, and 
(2)  
That the alleged failures to safeguard by that
employer/organization would tend to prevent such abuse.  
 
The
cases relied upon by Plaintiff reinforce this understanding. Plaintiff cites to
Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (Lawndale). Lawndale concerned
the sexual abuse of a student by a teacher. The student thereafter brought a
negligent hiring action against the school district. (Doe v. Lawndale
Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 129.) Plaintiff
specifically cites the following from Lawndale: 
 
To the extent Doe
v. DCFS suggests that, in all cases where a defendant has a special
relationship with a plaintiff, the defendant has a duty to protect the
plaintiff from third-party assaults or abuse only if the defendant has actual
knowledge of the third party's propensity for assault or abuse, California law
does not support such a proposition.
 
(Id.
at 129.) 
 
The
Court agrees with Plaintiff that the law in California is not that a plaintiff
must prove actual knowledge of a third party’s propensity for abuse. At the
same time, the context of this quotation is crucially important. The Lawndale
court went on to discuss that the lack of foreseeability in DCFS was
informed by the context of the relationship between adults and minors that they
host in their homes. (Id.) The Lawndale court distinguished the
holding from its own facts, which involved the relationship between a school
and its students. (Id.) The Lawndale court’s suggestion that
sexual abuse of minors is generally foreseeable is presented within the context
of that specific school/student relationship. (Id. at 170 citing C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861 (Hart)
[“A school district and its employees have a special relationship with the
district's pupils, a relationship arising from the mandatory character of
school attendance and the comprehensive control over students exercised by
school personnel, analogous in many ways to the relationship between parents
and their children.”].) 
 
As
this case does not concern a school, the principles of Hart and Lawndale
are informative, but not directly applicable. DCFS and Youth
Soccer make clear that outside of school/student relationships, a plaintiff
is required to show some foreseeability of child sexual abuse beyond general
awareness. As will be analyzed below, the Court finds the evidence in this case
does not support such a finding. 
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court finds the evidence supports the existence of a
special relationship between Plaintiff and YMCA. Plaintiff’s mother testified
that she paid YMCA for after school care for Plaintiff during the 1986-1987
school year. (Exh. 2, D.H. Decl ¶ 2-3.) It was Plaintiff’s mother’s
understanding that her son would be taken care of under the supervision of
YMCA. (Id. at ¶ 4.) YMCA presents no testimony or evidence to
refute the claim that YMCA was paid to watch Plaintiff after school. YMCA’s
assertion that at some point Plaintiff was told he did not need to pay to swim
at YMCA is not equivalent to such a refutation. (Exh. B., Roe Depo. at 48:13-
49:3, 51:20-52:20.) From these allegations it is sufficient to say that
Plaintiff was in the custodial care of YMCA in some capacity. The question thus
becomes whether the evidence shows YMCA’s prior knowledge of the potential for
child sexual abuse. 
 
The
record is bereft of evidence from which the Court could conclude that YMCA had
actual knowledge of Steve’s propensity for child abuse. Plaintiff testified in
his deposition that before the incident he was not afraid of Steve and was
always treated kindly by him. (Exh. B. Roe Depo at 54:12-18.) Plaintiff has
presented no evidence that Steve was acting inappropriately before the incident
or that YMCA would have otherwise been aware. As such, the Court must determine
whether there is any evidence that YMCA was more generally aware of the risk of
child sexual abuse.  
 
With
respect to potential safeguards or programs, no evidence is presented by either
party. Instead, Plaintiff submits evidence suggesting no safeguards were in
place.  YMCA’s Aquatics Director at the
time of the incident, George Saikili (Saikili), merely stated that he “found no
policies or any membership documents or any documents whatsoever that pertain
to the plaintiff’s allegations. (Exh. 5, Saikili Depo. 10:17-22.) Nor could
Saikili recall any policies or procedures from that time or whether YMCA had
any. (Id. at 47:2–5, 58: 3-7.) As concerns policies and procedures for
employees supervising young children, Saikili only posited that it seemed
likely YMCA would have had them at the time of the incident but did not recall
what they might have been. (Id. at 65:11–16.) 
 
In
contrast to the cases he relied upon, here there is no evidence that YMCA was
aware of the risk of child sexual abuse by third parties. For example, in Doe
v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (Archbishop), the
plaintiff presented ample evidence that the defendant was well aware of sexual
abuse of minors by member of the clergy. (Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop
of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 676.) This is similar to the
plaintiff in Youth Soccer showing that the organization was aware of and
took some measures to prevent sexual abuse of minors. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has made no showing that YMCA, either its Burbank chapter or
nationally, was aware of the risks of child sexual abuse by its employees prior
to the incident. Plaintiff has not presented any procedures of YMCA as a wider
organization or any incidents of sexual abuse at this or other YMCA locations
prior to the incident. In the absence of this evidence, the Court does not see
how it can be said that a triable issue of fact exists as to whether the
incident was reasonably foreseeable by YMCA. The lack of safeguard procedures
only becomes relevant once YMCA had prior knowledge of the need to implement
those procedures. 
 
In
short, the Court finds that Plaintiff has presented no evidence which could
establish YMCA’s prior knowledge and thus has failed to demonstrate that the
incident complained of was foreseeable. Given the failure to show
foreseeability, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate a triable issue of fat as
to a key elements of each of his causes of action. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is XXXXXX (TO BE DETERMINED AFTER ARGUMENT). 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
TO BE DETERMINED AFTER ARGUMENT
 
ORDER 
 
Burbank Community
YMCA’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on regularly
for hearing on September 24, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS XXXXXXXX. 
 
. 
 
DATE: 
September 24, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 