 Case Number:  23BBCV01035    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 24,
2024

MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01035

 
MP:     Gibraltar Convalescent Hospital
(Plaintiff)    
RP:      Lucille Mary
Schermerhorn (Defendant)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS/HISTORY: 
 
Gibraltar Convalescent Hospital (Plaintiff) brings this
action against Lucille Mary Schermerhorn (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges
Defendant owes approximately $153,742.24 for skilled nursing care that was
rendered to Defendant’s late husband (Decedent). 
 
On March 22, 2024, the Court heard four motions to compel
further discovery responses brought by Defendant. Defendant sought to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to each of their Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents (RFPD), and Request for
Admissions (RFA). Defendant did not oppose these motions.  
 
Before the Court is a motion brought by Plaintiff requesting
issue, evidentiary, and monetary sanctions. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has
continued to render non-responsive answers to Plaintiff’s RFA and Form
Interrogatories in violation of the Court’s order. Defendant opposes the
motion, stating that she issued further responses on June 11, 2024 and again on
August 13, 2024.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling answers to interrogatories, “the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.300(e).) 
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling further response to request for admissions, “the
court may order that the matters involved in the requests be deemed admitted. In
lieu of, or in addition to, this order, the court may impose a monetary
sanction…” (C.C.P. § 2033.290(e).) 
 
The court maintains
broad discretion in determining an appropriate sanction for misuse of the
discovery process. (See Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New
York (2016) 246 Cal. App.4th 566, 604.) In so doing, the court "should
consider both the conduct being sanctioned and its effect on the party seeking
discovery and, in choosing a sanction, should attempt to tailor the sanction to
the harm caused by the withheld discovery." (Van Sickle v. Gilbert
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516 [internal quotation omitted].) The discovery
statutes prescribe an incremental approach to sanctions. Sanctions "should
be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required
to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery. If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse." (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) 
 
II.           
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendant’s August
13, 2024 Responses 
 
The Court first
addresses what is referred to by Plaintiff as Defendant’s Further Further
Responses, issued on August 13, 2024. (See Yadegar Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff
argues that the Court should entirely disregard these responses, as they were
only served after the filing of the instant motion. The Court finds this
argument unpersuasive. 
 
It is well settled
that the purpose of a discovery sanction is to encourage the fair disclosure of
discovery, rather than to impose punishment on the previously withholding
party. (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988)
203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64.) In other words, the purpose of imposing discovery
sanctions is to ensure that the party requesting those sanctions eventually
receives the discovery they are requesting. To ignore Defendant’s August 13
responses would be to eschew this purpose. Defendant’s failure to render fully
responsive answers to the RFA until after this motion was filed may be
supportive of monetary sanctions, but it does not support the more drastic
remedy of deeming the RFA matters admitted. 
 
This being
established, the Court will review the RFA Plaintiff requests be admitted and
Defendant’s corresponding responses to determine if further production is
needed at this juncture. 
 
RFA 
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court
impose issue sanctions preventing Defendant from arguing any matter related to RFA
Nos. 2, 3, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 23, 27, and 28. In the
alternative, Plaintiff requests that each of these RFA be deemed admitted. 
 
The
Court notes that C.C.P. § 2033.290(e), concerning RFA, does not authorize issue
sanctions. The statute only permits the Court to deem RFA matters admitted for
failure to follow a court order. As such, the Court will review this motion
only on grounds of whether Plaintiff’s RFA should be deemed admitted. 
 
 For sake of clarity the Court reproduces the
relevant RFA and Defendant’s responses below. 
 
---
 
RFA
No. 2 “Admit that YOU were married to Craig Schermerhorn at all times between
the dates of January 7, 2019 and June 23, 2022” 
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Admit to being married in the colloquial
sense.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Answer: Admit to being married between
January 7, 2019 and June 23, 2022 (fn. The portion “in the colloquial sense”
has now been removed because opposing counsel is stating the prior response was
not code compliant. However, this is not to suggest the question being answered
is necessarily whether responding party was ‘legally’ married in the event it
is implied by this request.) 
 
RFA
No. 3: Admit that Craig Schermerhorn was a patient at Sunset Manor Convalescent
Hospital from January 7, 2019 and June 23, 2022.
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Admit that decedent was unwillingly a
patient at Sunset Manor against my express wishes and Sunset Manor refused to
transfer decedent to a facility closer to me that supports end of life care.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Admit decedent was a patient at Sunset
Manor Sunset Manor between January 7, 2019 and June 23, 2022. (fn. To the
extent this request implies decedent was legally a patient at Sunset Manor with
proper authorization, this response is not to suggest decedent was legally
admitted as a patient.) 
 
RFA
No. 4: Admit that Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital sent to You a contract
entitled “California Standard Admission Agreement for Skilled Nursing
Facilities and Intermediate Care Facilities.”
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Answering party lacks information and
belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter and therefore denies.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Admit that Sunset Manor sent to Defendant
a contract entitled “California Standard Admission Agreement for Skilled
Nursing Facilities and Intermediate Care Facilities”
 
RFA
No. 7: Admit that You received bills from Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital
for the charges incurred for Craig Schermerhorn’s care at Sunset Manor
Convalescent Hospital.
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Defendant admits receiving bills from
Sunset Manor for Decedent, but Decedent was there against her wishes prior to
and upon admission to Sunset Manor. Sunset Manor refused to transfer Decedent
out of their facility for anything upon admission until final removal from
their facility Defendant did not authorize.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Defendant admits receiving bills from
Sunset Manor for Decedent. 
 
RFA
No. 8: Admit that Craig Schermerhorn’s medical insurance did not provide for
coverage at Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital during Craig Schermerhorn’s stay
there.
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Unable to admit or deny as Defendant is
not in a position to know whether any insurance payments were ever received by
Plaintiff, although she can assume no payments were received because Sunset
Manor didn’t care about any insurance Decedent had. Sunset Manner just wanted
him to be on Medi-Cal. Defendant never provided insurance information to Sunset
Manor, because she never authorized for Decedent to be there.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Deny (fn. Upon further review of
documents that have already been produced, Sunset Manor sent a billing
statement for June 19, 2020 that shows payments were received on May 28, 2020
from Anthem Blue Cross in the amounts of $116.28 and $383.48.) 
 
RFA
No. 12: Admit that You had a duty to pay for Craig Schermerhorn’s necessaries
of life.
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Answering party lacks information and
belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter and therefore denies.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Answering party lacks information and
belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter.
 
Defendant’s
response is the same for RFA Nos. 13, 14, 16, 17, and 19.  
 
RFA
No. 20: Admit that there is an outstanding balance of $153,742.24 on Craig
Schermerhorn’s account at Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital for skilled
nursing care and treatment provided to Craig Schermerhorn by Sunset Manor
Convalescent Hospital.
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Answering party lacks information and
belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter and therefore denies, other than to admit
Sunset Manor was trying to bill her for $153,742.24 for their confinement of
Decedent against her wishes and authorization. Whatever alleged care was
provided for and billed to Decedent’s account was without authorization from
Defendant. She never authorized Decedent to be admitted to Plaintiff’s Care or
to their facility.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Admit as to a purported balance of
$153,742.24 being claimed by Sunset Manor; Deny as to the assertion that the
balance is “outstanding”; With respect to “for skilled nursing care and
treatment provided to Craig Schermerhorn by Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital”
responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge to admit or deny
after a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in this particular portion of
the request, and the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to
enable responding party to admit this portion of the request.
 
RFA
No. 23: “Admit that Craig Schermerhorn was on a ventilator and feeding tube and
trachea; he also received dialysis every other day while he was a patient at
Sunset Manor Convalescent Hospital. 
 
·        
6/11/24 Response: Answering party lacks information and
belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter and therefore denies, as she doesn’t know if
Decedent received dialysis every other day while at Sunset Manor. He was
supposed to but Defendant cannot verify they did or not.
 
·        
8/13/24 Response: Answering party lacks information and
belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter.
 
---
 
Having
reviewed Defendant’s responses the Court finds that the August 13, 2024
responses are largely adequate. The Court’s primary basis for previously compelling
further responses to the RFA was Defendant’s conflicting statement of an
inability to comply while simultaneously denying each of RFA Nos. 1-28. The Court found that Defendant’s responses were
incomplete by virtue of both stating an inability to respond and yet responding
regardless.
 
Here, Defendant appears to have cured
this defect in her August 13 responses, at least as concerns RFA Nos. 7,
8, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 23, 27, and 28. The Court notes that several of the June 11 responses still asserted
an inability to comply while simultaneously denying the RFA, but this defect appears
to have been rectified with the August 13 production. Each of these RFA are now
sufficiently answered with a response of Admit, Deny, or Unable to Comply. 
 
What remains are RFA Nos. 2 and 3. Plaintiff
maintains that the August 13 responses remain improper as to these RFA because
they are not a straightforward declaration of admit or deny. Indeed, Defendant’s
responses to these interrogatories are qualified by footnotes disputing the
meaning of the RFA on definitional grounds. 
 
With respect to RFA No. 2, Defendant
maintains that her response of “admit” to whether Defendant was married to
Decedent is not meant as an admission that the parties were “legally” married. This
is unacceptable.   What is before the
Court is a legal matter, and the issues which must be resolved are legal
ones.  The Court acknowledges that
Plaintiff’s RFA does not contain a definition for the word “married” however, that
term is defined by law.  Family Code §300
states, “Marriage is a personal relation arising out of a civil contract
between two persons, to which the consent of the parties capable of making that
contract is necessary. Consent alone does not constitute marriage. Consent must
be followed by the issuance of a license and solemnization as authorized …
“  For over 120 years, California does
not accept the doctrine of common law marriage which was abolished in
California by statute in 1895 (see Norman v. Thomson (1898) 121 Cal.
620, 628; Elden v. Sheldon (1988) 46 Cal.3d 267.)  Defendant’s engaging in a semantic argument
as to whether she was “legally” or “colloquially” married to Decedent is
inconsistent with the RFA.  The question
was straight forward, the term “marriage” is well known in the law, both
statute and case law.  Accordingly, the
Court orders the Defendant to answer the question as to whether Defendant was
legally married.  Had the Plaintiff
sought to inquire whether Defendant believed she was in a five court days in
which to file a code compliant amended response. 
 
With respect to RFA No. 3, Defendant’s
August 13 response constitutes an admission to the RFA posed. The RFA requests
Defendant to admit that Decedent was a patient at Plaintiff’s facility. In the
Court’s view, the June 11 response admitting that Decedent was an “unwilling
patient” constituted an evasive response. Whether Decedent was present at
Plaintiff’s facility willingly or unwillingly is a matter entirely unrelated to
the question of whether he was patient in the first place. Regardless,
Defendant August 13 response appears to rectify this defect by stating an
unqualified admission. Defendant’s inclusion of the footnote asserting that
Decedent was not a willing patient at the facility may be an irrelevant
inclusion, but it does not render the “admit” response inadequate. Further,
there would be no point in deeming this RFA admitted considering Defendant has
already admitted its truth in her August 13 responses. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is CONTINUED
in part and DENIED in part. The matter will be continued for compliance with
the Court’s order or RFA 2 will be deemed admitted.
 
Form Interrogatory
15.1 
 
Plaintiff also moves
for evidentiary sanctions precluding Defendant from introducing evidence which
would have been responsive to Form Interrogatory 15.1. Form Interrogatory 15.1
requests Defendant identify all facts, witnesses, and documents supporting each
of her 33 Affirmative Defenses. 
 
Defendant’s initial
response to this interrogatory was a simple objection. Defendant’s June 11
response appears to rectify this issues by identifying a number of facts,
witnesses, and documents which are responsive to the request. (Wilson Decl.
Exh. K.) Plaintiff argues that this response remains insufficient because it is
not stated as to each of Defendant’s affirmative defenses, instead the
information is identified in the aggregate. Defendant’s August 13, 2024
responses attempt to rectify this insufficiency by asserting the same
substantive response as in the June 11 responses but repeated 33 times. 
 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff that the same information is unlikely to be responsive to each of
Defendant’s 33 affirmative defenses.  For
example, the Court does not see how information which is responsive to
Defendant’s affirmative defense of “Laches” would be identical to those
responsive to Defendant’s affirmative defense of “Consent” (See Yadegar Decl.
Exh. B.) 
 
Regardless, the Court
does not view these responses as warranting evidentiary sanctions. It is clear
that Defendant is attempting to provide responsive information, even if her
copy/paste approach is insufficient. As such, the Court believes the
appropriate remedy would be to issue further monetary sanctions and compel
Defendant to issue another response to Form Interrogatory 15.1. This response
must identify individualized information for each of Defendant’s further
responses. The Court reserves the right to reconsider evidentiary sanctions
should Defendant fail to comply with this order within the next 30 days. 
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
Despite the Court’s
refusal to order issue or evidentiary sanctions, it is clear that Plaintiff’s
filing of this motion was necessary to obtain appropriate responses. Further,
Defendant’s response to Form Interrogatory 15.1 remains insufficient. Given the
foregoing, the Court finds monetary sanctions are appropriate in this
circumstance. The Court awards sanctions in the amount of $2,900 as against Defendant’s counsel. This amount is
commensurate with 8 hours of attorney work at a rate of $355 per hour, plus the
$60 filing fee for this motion. (Wilson Decl. ¶ 18.) 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gibraltar Convalescent Hospital’s Motion for Sanctions came on
regularly for hearing on September 24, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED IN PART
AND DENIED IN PART. PLAINTIFF IS TO PREPARE A PROPOSED ORDER FOR THE COURT’S
SIGNATURE DEEMING RFA NO. 2 ADMITTED.  
 
DEFENDANT
IS ORDERED TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSE TO RFA #2 and FORM INTERROGATORY 15.1
WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,900.00 AS AGAINST
DEFENDANT’S COUNSEL.
 
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
RE: DISCOVERY COMPLIANCE IS SET FOR OCTOBER 24, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.   PLAINTIFF TO TAKE THE MATTER OFF CALENDAR IF
COMPLIANCE HAS BEEN RECEIVED.
 
ALL SANCTIONS,
INCLUDING THOSE PREVIOUSLY AWARDED, ARE TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES
WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 