  Case Number:  24STCV14388    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Rose, et. al. vs. Hyundai Motor America, et. al.,
Case No. 24STCV14388
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Hyundai Motor America (Defendant) moves
for an order compelling Dianna Rose and Michael Goldsmith (Plaintiffs) to
submit their claims to binding arbitration and stay this action pending
resolution of the arbitration. The motion is denied.
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)
A proceeding to compel arbitration is
in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party
to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).) 
            A motion to compel arbitration
requires the facts to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary
evidence with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ.
Proc., §1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The motion
must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration
clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by
reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215,
218.)  
            Once the moving party alleges that
an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the responding party to
prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication
is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the
agreement is challenged, “[movant] bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal, supra, p. 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
Defendant
argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists. A party moving to compel
arbitration may meet its initial burden by providing a copy of the signed
arbitration agreement. (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165–166 (Gamboa).) The opposing party may produce
evidence to challenge the agreement in response. (Ibid.) Then, the moving
party must use admissible evidence to show a valid agreement. (Ibid.)
Here, Defendant provides evidence of a Bluelink Services Agreement (Agreement)
that it claims binds Plaintiffs to arbitration through Plaintiffs’ checking a
digital box. (Rao Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) 
 
Plaintiffs
challenge the existence of the Agreement in pointing out that Defendant has not
provided a signed agreement and by objecting to the Declaration of Vijay Rao.  Plaintiffs’ objection is sustained.  While declarant Rao may have personal
knowledge regarding how a customer would sign up for the Bluelink subscription,
he offers no admissible evidence to establish that Plaintiffs did in fact sign
up for the service.
 
In
addition, Plaintiffs challenge the applicability of the agreement to Plaintiffs’
present claims. Vehicle sale contracts are governed by Civil Code sections 2981
et seq. Every sale contract shall be in writing and “contain in a single
document all of the agreements of the buyer and seller with respect to the
total cost and the terms of payment for the motor vehicle.” (Civ. Code, §
2981.9.) “An exact copy of the contract or purchase order shall be furnished to
the buyer by the seller at the time the buyer and the seller have signed it.” (Ibid.)
Additionally, vehicle sale contracts are excluded from the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act. (Id., § 1633.3, subd. (c).) These rules are designed
to provide protections to purchasers of motor vehicles, and a contract that
does not substantially conform to the requirements is unenforceable. (Kunert
v. Mission Financial Services Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 242, 248 (Kunert).)
Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs entered an agreement to arbitrate all future
claims regarding the subject vehicle when they agreed to be bound by Hyundai’s
Bluelink services comprehensive service agreement. (Rao Decl. ¶ 4.) The
Agreement provides that “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and all
disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement,
Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle,
use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or
seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via
the sites or through mobile application, 
except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not subject
to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. This agreement
to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and
claims between us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by
law.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2.) The agreement extends to “claims based in contract,
tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory;
claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s
argument that a binding arbitration agreement exists fails because the
Agreement does not cover Plaintiffs’ claims. Even if it did, the Agreement
would not be enforceable because Defendant failed to comply with Civil Code
section 2981.
 
Plaintiffs’
claims arise out of various mechanical issues with the vehicle, including a
foul odor emitted by the HVAC system, various recalls, a problem with the
invertor coolant warning light, battery failure, a malfunctioning power window
system, and an inoperative fast charger. (Compl. ¶ 10.) None of these issues are
related to Bluelink services. The Agreement allegedly completed by Plaintiffs is
titled “Connected Services Agreement.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2.) The Agreement
begins, in bold, with the words “Welcome to Hyundai Bluelink for your Hyundai
Vehicle.” (Ibid.) In doing so, it immediately sets Bluelink apart as
separate from the vehicle itself, signifying that the rest of the Agreement will
apply specifically to Bluelink services. The Agreement then discusses various
electronic services in depth. (Ibid.) 
 
Section
15, subsection (C) of the Agreement on page 14 includes the relevant
arbitration agreement. The Agreement states that “you agree to arbitrate any
and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, your
Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase,
enroll in or seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or
Customer, via the sites or through mobile application.” (Ibid.) The
structure of the Agreement makes clear that it is not meant to apply to claims
unrelated to Bluelink services. Rather, the signor agrees to arbitrate any
disputes and claims arising out of or relating to the Agreement concerning
Bluelink services and any issues with those services in the signor’s vehicle. No
reasonable person reading the Agreement would understand it to be an agreement
to arbitration concerning any future separate mechanical defects with the
vehicle unrelated Bluelink services. Indeed, “a contract may be explained by
reference to the circumstances under which it was made, and the matter to which
it relates.” (Civ. Code, § 1647.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the Agreement
does not apply to Plaintiffs’ claims.
 
Even
if the Agreement contained language making it explicitly applicable to
Plaintiffs’ claims, it would still violate section 2981. Defendant failed to
provide a physical copy of the contract or obtain a physical signature as
required under section 2981.9. Such failures would make the Agreement
unenforceable as a matter of law under Kunert. Thus, Defendant has
failed to establish the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate covering
Plaintiffs’ claims. 
 