 Case Number:  22STCV15379    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  14 Guffey v. RokitCase Background
 
This is a combination class and
PAGA action in which Plaintiffs allege violations of wage and hour laws.
 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Willful Misclassification,
(2) Failure to Pay Wages, (3) Failure to Provide Meal Breaks, (4) Willful
Misclassification, (5) Failure to Pay Wages, (6) Failure to Provide Meal
Breaks, (7) Failure to Provide Rest Breaks, (8) Waiting Time Penalties, (9)
Failure to Provide Sick Leave, (10) Failure to Provide Wage Statements, (11)
Failure to Maintain Accurate Records, (12) Failure to Provide Copies of Signed
Documents, (13) Failure to Reimburse, (14) Unfair Competition, (15) PAGA Violations
against Defendants Rokit Inc., Rokit Drinks LLC, Rokit Imports Inc., Rokit
Drinks Imports Inc., Rokit Drinks Resources Inc., Rokit Distillery Inc. (collectively
“Rokit”), Rokit Launch, Inc., Rokit Launch Resources, Inc. (collectively “Launch”),
Daniel Lewis (“Lewis”), Jonathan Kendrick (“Kendrick”), Dean Becker (“Becker”),
and DOES 1-10. 
 
Defendant Kendrick has not yet
been served.
 
On December 16, 2022, this court
granted a motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendants Rokit, Lewis, and Becker.
The court ordered the case stayed pending arbitration.
 
On June 8, 2023, this court vacated
the order compelling Plaintiff Jeffrey Moore (“Moore”) to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98. The court also lifted the stay on
Plaintiff Moore’s claims.
 
On October 17, 2023, this court
vacated the order compelling Plaintiff Jack Guffey (“Guffey”) to arbitration pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98. The court also lifted the stay on
Plaintiff Guffey’s claims.
 
On the same date, this court
ordered Plaintiffs to fill out the Complex Civil Case Questionnaire and seek
admission to the court’s Complex Litigation Program pursuant to Local Rule
3.3(k)(6). On October 26, 2023, Plaintiffs did so. On November 1, 2023, Judge
David S. Cunningham III reviewed the Questionnaire and denied the case
admission to the Complex Litigation Program. The case remains assigned to this
department.
 
No trial date is currently set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendants Launch
now demur to the FAC, on the grounds that (1) this court lacks subject matter
jurisdiction, (2) Plaintiffs lack capacity, (3) there is another action
pending, (4) there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, (5) the FAC fails to
allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action, and (6) the FAC is
uncertain. 
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants
Launch identify six possible statutory grounds for a demurrer in their notice.
However, the memorandum only presents arguments which address three of those
grounds: lack of capacity, failure to state a cause of action, and uncertainty.
The court need address only arguments which are actually raised in the
memorandum. See California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(a). Because the last
argument presented in the demurrer is the broadest, it will be addressed first
here.
 
Class Certification
 
            Defendants
Launch suggest that Plaintiffs cannot adequately represent their alleged class.
It is not clear that this question is properly addressed by way of demurrer. Defendants
say that the court’s ability to handle this question at this stage is “firmly
established,” but the citation they provide discusses a substantial split of
authority. Tucker v. Pacific Bell Mobile Services (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
201, 211-215. 
 
            The court
need not choose a side on that split, however, because Defendants rest their
argument on documents that are outside the four corners of the FAC. Defendants assert
that these items are judicially noticeable. But no request for judicial notice
was submitted in connection with this pleading. Instead, Defendants ask the
court to refer to other requests filed in connection with other hearings at other
times. (Demurrer p. 7:9-13). The court is not willing to do so.
 
            The court
may freely sift through its file to determine what arguments were made and
positions taken by any given party, in the interest of bringing consistency and
fairness to the proceedings. However, the court may not use its file to create
a substantive evidentiary record on behalf of one of the parties. Prior to
trial, evidence is offered and taken at certain times for certain purposes;
that does not mean it can automatically be used at other times for other
purposes. Setting aside the court’s own need for clarity in its records, the
opposing party is entitled to notice and an opportunity to object. Therefore,
if any party wishes the court to take judicial notice of something in
connection with any given hearing, a separate request must be made for that
hearing, pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 3.1306(c).
 
            The court
lacks an adequate record to decide any issue relating to class certification at
this time. 
 
Statute of Limitations - PAGA
 
            Defendants
Launch argue that Plaintiff Guffey’s PAGA claims are time-barred.[1]
Plaintiff Guffey resigned his employment effective January 24, 2022. (FAC
¶ 32). Pursuant to Labor Code § 2699.3(a)(1)(A), Plaintiff Guffey
filed and served notice of the alleged violations on March 3, 2022. (FAC
¶ 49). That notice did not name Defendants Launch and was not sent to
them. (FAC Exhibit 1). The LWDA did not respond, so Plaintiff received the
right to sue by operation of law on May 7, 2022. (FAC ¶ 50). Plaintiff
Guffey filed the original complaint in this case on May 9, 2022. That complaint
did not include Defendants Launch. Plaintiffs did not name Launch as Defendants
in this case until the filing of the FAC. 
 
            The
limitations period on a PAGA claim is one year (Code of Civil Procedure
§ 340(a)), plus whatever time elapses between the service of the PAGA
notice on a defendant and Plaintiff’s reception of the right to sue (Labor Code
§ 2699.3(d)). Since the original notice did not include Defendants Launch,
they argue that Plaintiff Guffey’s time to sue them ran out no later than
January 24, 2023 – one year after his resignation.     Defendants Launch seem to be correct. 
 
Plaintiff Guffey argues that the limitations
period should be tolled during the time this case was stayed. He cites to Code
of Civil Procedure § 356, which provides for tolling where “the commencement
of an action is stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition.” But the court’s
stay in this case did not prevent Plaintiff Guffey from commencing an action
against Defendants Launch; it prevented Plaintiff Guffey from prosecuting his
case, as then pled, in this particular forum. Defendants Launch were not party
to this case during the time of the stay. Therefore, they were not included in
the stay, and Plaintiff Guffey could have commenced action against them at any
time.
 
Next, Plaintiff Guffey contends
that the two Launch entities are not really “new defendants,” just new names adopted
by two of the Rokit entities: Rokit Drinks, LLC became Rokit Launch, Inc., and
Rokit Drinks Resources, Inc. became Rokit Launch Resources, Inc. According to
Plaintiff Guffey, the name change occurred during the pendency of this case. The
problem with this argument is that the FAC identifies and names each one as a
separate defendant. And there is a procedure for updating the name of a defendant
if it changes while litigation is ongoing – the plaintiff should obtain an
order from the court to substitute the new name for the old one. See Form LACIV
105. It is not appropriate to name both separately in the complaint as if they
are different parties.
 
If it is Plaintiffs’ theory that
(a) Rokit Drinks, LLC became Rokit Launch, Inc. and (b) Rokit Drinks Resources,
Inc. became Rokit Launch Resources, Inc., then Plaintiffs need to amend their
caption and list of defendants to include only the current name. Plaintiffs
should plead the former name using the “formerly known as” convention. They may
also wish to state when the name change occurred.
 
First Cause of Action: Misclassification
 
            Defendants
Launch argue that there is no private right of action for violation of Labor Code
§ 226.8, other than a PAGA claim. Plaintiffs agree. To that extent, the
first cause of action is duplicative of the PAGA claim and should be removed. See
Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135.
 
Eighth Cause of Action: Failure to Maintain Records
 
            Defendants
Launch argue that there is no private right of action for violation of Labor Code
§ 1174(d), other than a PAGA claim. The parties appear to be somewhat
confused by the structure of the FAC, which identifies 15 causes of action in
its caption, but pleads only 12 in the body. The court is somewhat confused by
this as well. 
 
            The body of
this claim, at paragraphs 151-159 of the FAC, does not help. Paragraph 153
contains a block quotation from Labor Code § 1174(d). But Plaintiffs now argue
that they are not seeking penalties for a violation of that section. It is not
clear, then, why that section has been included. 
 
Eleventh Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
 
            Plaintiff’s
pleading of this claim consists simply of quoting Bus. & Prof. Code
§ 17200 (FAC ¶ 175), generically identifying the three different ways
a claim can be maintained (FAC ¶¶ 176-178), and then the conclusory
statement that “Defendants’ business practices violate all three prongs” of the
statute (FAC ¶ 179). That is not sufficient to plead this claim. While it
is true that the pleading need not contain all the particulars required in the
case of common law fraud, it must still be stated with “reasonable”
particularity. Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19
Cal.App.5th 1234, 1261. Plaintiff has provided none at all.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
should plead their complaint against the entity, not the name. Therefore, if it
is Plaintiffs’ theory that certain Defendants have changed their names during
litigation, the amended complaint should substitute the new names for the old
rather than add the new names to the old. For this and other reasons given
above, the demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
(2)       OSC re:
Payment of Fees
 
            At a prior
case management conference, this court deemed the case complex pursuant to California
Rules of Court Rule 3.402(b) and Local Rule 3.3(k)(5). The court ordered
counsel to pay their complex litigation fees pursuant to Government Code
§ 70616 within 30 days. (Minute Order of December 14, 2023).
 
            Plaintiffs paid
their complex case fee on December 14, 2023. As of February 6, 2024, Defendants
had not paid theirs. Therefore, this court set the instant OSC re: Payment of
Fees. As of this date, Defendants have neither responded to the OSC nor paid
their fees.
 
            As noted above,
there appears to be some confusion as to whether all the parties named as
defendants are in fact separate entities. This may affect the amount of the
fees due. Therefore, this OSC is CONTINUED to April 2, 2024, at 8:30 am.
Defendants are ordered to file a Response to the OSC by March 21, 2024.
 
(3)       Case
Management Conference
 
            After
deeming this case complex, the court also ordered counsel to meet and confer
and lodge a proposed case management order. (Minute Order of December 14,
2023).
 
            Counsel met
and conferred over email, but could not agree on a proposed case management
order. Each side served a proposed order of their own on January 26, 2024. 
 
            The court
reviewed these documents at the previous case management conference on February
8, 2024, and offered counsel additional instruction. 
 
Counsel have now made a second
attempt but are still unable to agree. And while the court appreciates counsel’s
continued efforts, the court is still unable to sign the version proposed by
either party.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Item No. 5 (and Defendants’ corresponding Item No. 4) need not be included in
the case management order. While the court does encourage counsel to utilize
the model protective orders available on its web site, it does not expect to be
involved in the drafting or modification of such a protective order. Item No. 9
includes the court’s suggestion that counsel stipulate around the statutory
discovery deadlines. While that suggestion still stands, it should not be part
of a case management order.
 
            Defendants’
proposed “redline” modifications to Item Nos. 2-3, and deletion of Item 4, would
not be adopted. As to Item No. 2, discovery on class issues and on the merits
will necessarily overlap, and any attempt to separate the two will cause more
problems than it will solve. As to Items 3-4, potential class members must be
identified and notified, and this is the standard method for doing so.
 
            On the
other hand, Defendants’ proposed deletion of the text of California Rules of
Court Rule 3.300 would be accepted. The rule is available to counsel and need
not be quoted verbatim in this court’s orders.
 
            Counsel
also seem to disagree on future dates and deadlines for various things. What
follows is a target for counsel to aim at, but which the court is not requiring
counsel to follow exactly. The court expects that any given Defendant will be
able to file their Answer no later than 30 days after either (a) the operative
complaint is filed or (b) their demurrer has been overruled. The court expects
that any motion for class certification will be filed no later than May 9,
2025, when this case will be three years old. The court does not anticipate
holding intermediate status or case management conferences to monitor counsel’s
progress. Finally, the court expects counsel to provide an anticipated trial
date some time in the year 2025.
 
            The case
management conference is CONTINUED to April 2, 2024, at 8:30 am. Counsel are to
meet and confer and prepare a proposed case management order in light of the
guidance offered above. The proposed order should be submitted by noon on March
21, 2024. 


