 Case Number:  23STCV27333    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  14 Lugo v. VEVO LLC, et alCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was
passed over for promotion, and ultimately fired, because she rejected the
romantic advances of her immediate superior.
 
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed
her Complaint for (1) Discrimination, (2) Harassment, (3) FEHA Retaliation, (4)
Failure to Prevent, (5) Labor Code § 1102.5 Retaliation, (6) Wrongful
Termination, (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (8)
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention, (9) Unfair Competition, and (10) Declaratory
Relief against Defendants Vevo LLC (“Vevo”), Jesse Judelman (“Judelman”),
Andrea Zapata (“Zapata”), and DOES 1-20. 
 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff
voluntarily dismissed her seventh cause of action, without prejudice.
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendants now
demur to the second and tenth causes of action in the Complaint on the grounds
that the facts alleged are insufficient to support those claims.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action: Harassment
 
            As pled,
this cause of action is uncertain, for two reasons. First, Plaintiff pleads
that she was harassed based on her sex or gender, and that she was harassed
based on race. These are two distinct factual theories, which should be
separated into two different causes of action so that they can be evaluated separately.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff’s actual pleading of this cause of action, at paragraphs 51-61 of the
Complaint, simply recites the elements of a FEHA harassment claim. Plaintiff
needs to identify which of the individual facts in her story (told in detail in
paragraphs 17-34) support this claim. It is not enough to tell a general
factual story, then say ‘there’s a harassment claim in there somewhere.’
 
Tenth Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
            Only
Defendants Judelman and Zapata demur to this cause of action. The parties treat
this claim as derivative of the second cause of action. Given that that claim
is uncertain, this one is too.