 Case Number:  23STCV15030    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  14 Kneeland v. Roman SalesCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
refused to accommodate her disability, fired her, then refused to pay her the severance
pay agreed upon.
 
On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed her
Complaint for (1) Disability Discrimination, (2) Disability Harassment, (3)
Failure to Reasonably Accommodate a Disability, (4) Failure to Engage in the
Good Faith Interactive Process, (5) FEHA Retaliation, (6) Labor Code
§ 98.6 Retaliation, (7) Failure to Issue Accurate Itemized Wage Statements,
(8) Failure to Pay All Vested Vacation Time on Termination, (9) Waiting Time
Penalties, and (10) Unfair Competition against Defendants Roman Sales, Inc. (“Sales”),
Michael Roman (“Roman”), and DOES 1-50. 
 
On August 8, 2023, Defendants Sales
and Roman filed their joint Answer.
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Defendants Sales
and Roman now move this court for an order permitting them to file a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff for recording conversations without consent. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED. Defendants are to file their Cross-Complaint by March 6, 2024.
 
Governing Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 426.50
provides:
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements
of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or
other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file
a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms
as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint,
to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of
causes of action.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 428.50 provides that:
 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court
has set a date for trial.
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”
 
“Under California's compulsory
cross-complaint statute, a party is prohibited from asserting a claim if, at
the time the party answered a complaint in a prior suit, it failed to allege in
a cross-complaint any related cause of action against the plaintiff. (§ 426.30,
subd. (a) (§ 426.30(a).)) The phrase “ ‘[r]elated cause of action’ ” is defined
as “a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the
plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (§ 426.10, subd. (c).) Additionally, in
order for a cross-complaint to be compulsory, the related cause of action must
have existed when the answer was served. (§ 426.30(a).) If it was not, the
failure to assert it is not a bar under the statute.” ZF Micro Devices, Inc.
v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69, 81.
 
“The legislative mandate is clear.
A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of
causes of action is imposed on the trial court. A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during
the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party
is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” Silver Organizations
Ltd v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 (emphasis added). There must
be a “strong showing” of bad faith supported by substantial evidence. Sidney
v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
opposes this motion on three bases. First, she argues that Defendants have
failed to comply with California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324. But, as Defense
points out in their reply, Rule 3.1324 does not apply to this motion. This is a
motion for leave to file a new pleading, not a motion for leave to amend an
existing one.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that the cross-complaint will be barred by the statute of
limitations. This is not the time for the court to decide whether Plaintiff has
a defense to the claims raised. Even if Plaintiff is right and ultimately will
prevail on a statute of limitations defense, the issue is whether Defendant has
acted in bad faith, not whether the claim is likely to succeed. The situation
might be different were the proposed cross-complaint obviously fatally
defective in some incurable way, but that is not the state of the present record.
 
            Third and finally,
Plaintiff argues that this will delay the litigation. That may prove to be
true. However, this case is only eight months old. No trial date has been set.
Any delay that may occur will not be significant.
 
Conclusion
 
            This is a
compulsory cross-complaint. Defendants have a right to file it, and there is
not sufficient evidence to show that they are exercising that right in bad
faith. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED. Defendants are to file their
Cross-Complaint by March 6, 2024.