 Case Number:  23STCV12059    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ELIO VALLECILLO RIVERA, Plaintiff(s), vs.  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV12059  ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. June 4, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Elio Vallecillo Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”), the City of Los Angeles (Doe 1), and Does 2 to 20 for damages arising from an alleged failure to secure a ramp. On November 17, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s petition to file a late claim against LACMTA.  LACMTA now moves for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that Plaintiff has yet to dismiss it from the action despite Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the Government Code requirements for him to be able to maintain a cause of action against it. As of May 21, 2024, no opposition has been filed.   II. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE LACMTA requests the Court take judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s complaint in this matter, (2) the Court’s November 17, 2023 Minute Order denying Plaintiff’s petition for relief, (3) LACMTA’s Answer to the complaint, (4) Metro’s Request for Admissions, set one, served on Plaintiff, and (5) the Court’s February 26, 2024 Minute Order deeming LACMTA’s request for admissions, set one, admitted against Plaintiff.  The unopposed requests are GRANTED. (Evid. Code §452(d), (h).)  III. MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS Legal Standard A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (C.C.P. §438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself. [Citation.]”  (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (Citations Omitted).)  The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)  Analysis: Government Tort Claims  California Government Code § 945.5 provides, “No suit for damages may be maintained against a public entity unless the claim has been presented to it.” “The failure to timely present a proper claim … bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity. [Citation.]”  (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.) “The filing of a claim is a condition precedent to the maintenance of any cause of action against the public entity and is therefore an element that a plaintiff is required to prove in order to prevail.” (Del Real v. City of Riverside (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 761, 767.)   Here, it is undisputed that based on the matters judicially noticed, Plaintiff is barred from maintaining a cause of action against LACMTA due to his failure to timely present a tort claim. This defect is not subject to cure, because Plaintiff’s petition to file a late claim has already been denied. (Min. Order, Nov. 17, 2023.)   IV. CONCLUSION Accordingly, LACMTA’s unopposed motion for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s complaint is GRANTED without leave to amend.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    