 Case Number:  22STCV18690    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ANTOINETTE GAYTAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  STAPLES CENTER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV18690  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 4, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Antoinette Gaytan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Staples Center, L.A. Arena Company, LLC (“L.A. Arena”), and Does 1 to 25 for injuries arising from an overly intoxicated patron falling onto Plaintiff. (SAC at ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges defendants failed to implement appropriate safeguards and crowd control measures to prevent overly intoxicated and potentially aggressive patrons from injuring others. (Id. at ¶ 10.) The SAC sets forth three causes of action for (1) general negligence, (2) premises liability, and (3) negligent hiring and retention. On January 27, 2023, the Court sustained L.A. Arena’s demurrer to the first and third causes of action without leave to amend. (Min. Order, Jan. 27, 2023.) As to the second cause of action for premises liability, the Court found that, although unartfully pled, the premises liability claim states a cause of action as to the allegation that the seating area posed an unreasonable risk of tripping and falling to patrons, whether intoxicated or not. (Ibid.) Thus, the demurrer as to the second cause of action was overruled due to that specific allegation of a dangerous condition of the property. (Ibid.) L.A. Arena now moves for summary judgment on the grounds that there is no evidence that any defect in the property caused another patron to fall on Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and L.A. Arena filed its reply. Moving Argument L.A. Arena avers the case was allowed to proceed on the issue of whether the rows in which Plaintiff sat were overly narrow, such that it created an unreasonably dangerous condition. L.A. Arena argues Plaintiff and her husband admit that she does not know why the man fell on her, and that there is no evidence beyond speculation that a design defect caused the person to fall on her. L.A. Arena asserts it is entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff’s claim rests upon speculative causation.  B. Opposing Argument Plaintiff argues L.A. Arena has not met its burden of proof, and even if so, there exists a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff relies upon her expert, Enrique Rivera (“Rivera”) and Brad Avrit (“Avrit”), arguing their opinions raise a reasonable inference that the subject seating area presented a substantial fall hazard for visitors because the configuration violated the 1996 City of Los Angeles Building Code that was in effect when the property was permitted for construction.  Reply Argument L.A. Arena argues that the code violation does not exist because Plaintiff misclassifies the subject building and misinterprets the code. Further, L.A. Arena avers that even if there was a code violation, Plaintiff’s tying of the alleged code violation to the incident is conjectural in terms of causation.  II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Plaintiff submits an evidentiary objection to Defendant’s Exhibit B: Plaintiff’s Deposition Transcript at 111:16-21. The objection is overruled. L.A. Arena submits an evidentiary objection to the declaration of Avrit at paragraphs 9 through 12. The objections are sustained on the grounds of lack of foundation.   III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)       The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)    “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) B.  Premises Liability  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm. (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  If a dangerous condition exists, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition reasonably safe for their use or to give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.” (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.)  Here, L.A. Arena does not make any arguments regarding whether a dangerous condition existed. Whether or not a dangerous condition existed, L.A. Arena argues there is no evidence that any condition of the property caused a drunken patron to fall on Plaintiff, and that Plaintiff’s contention is purely speculative. “ ‘[C]ausation ... is ordinarily a question of fact which cannot be resolved by summary judgment. The issue of causation may be decided as a question of law only if, under undisputed facts, there is no room for a reasonable difference of opinion. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Kurinji v. Hanna & Morton (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 853, 864.) Causation must be established by nonspeculative evidence. (Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 774; Montague v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1525, 168 Cal.Rptr.3d 123 [“speculative inferences do not raise a triable issue of fact”].) Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal. App. 5th 201, 212, review denied (Apr. 27, 2022).  The parties do not dispute the following facts. Plaintiff was watching a concert at the “Staples Center” (now known as “Crypo.com Arena”) when an overly intoxicated man suddenly fell on her. Plaintiff does not know why the unidentified man fell on her. The man who fell on Plaintiff provided no explanation as to why he fell. Indeed, "to demonstrate actual or legal causation, the plaintiff must show that the defendant's act or omission was a “substantial factor” in bringing about the injury." (Saelzler v. Advanced Grp. 400 (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 763, 774 (Saelzler).) Thus, L.A. Arena has met its prima facie burden that no condition caused the man to lose his balance and fall on Plaintiff.  In opposition, Plaintiff primarily relies on her expert Avrit to support her contention that the subject area presented a substantial fall hazard for visitors based on the seating configuration. However, the Court finds that Plaintiff merely presents an abstract negligence claim pertaining to the seat design. The Court already sustained L.A. Arena’s objection to Avrit’s declaration on the grounds that he lacks foundation for his opinion. Avrit opines that the seats back-to-back measurement does not meet the 33-inch requirement in violation of the 1996 City of Los Angeles Building Code, because the rise between the rows was constructed at 24-1/8 inches. (Avrit Decl. ¶ 10.) Avrit’s declaration fails to provide any foundational support that the City of Los Angeles 1996 amendments “was in effect when the property was permitted for construction.” (Ibid.) No evidence or specific date was provided as to when the property was permitted for construction, when the property was built, or why this building code is even applicable beyond a broad unsupported statement. The copies of the 1994 edition and 1996 amendments to the Uniform Building Code highlight certain sections, yet there is no explanation tying its applicability to the subject property. Even if, in arguendo, the 1996 City of Los Angeles Building Code was applicable to the construction of Crypo.com Arena, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the seating height bore any causal connection to her injury even if a duty of care was breached. (Saelzler, 25 Cal. 4th 763 at 773.)  In Saelzler, the California Supreme Court analyzed the issue of causation, and found Noble v. Los Angeles Dodgers, Inc. (1985) 168 Cal. App. 3d 912, Constance B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal. App. 3d 200, and Nola M. v. Univ. of S. California (1993) 16 Cal. App. 4th 421 to be particularly instructive. The California Supreme Court summarized the salient points of those cases as follows:   “In Noble, the plaintiff was assaulted in a parking lot at Dodger Stadium and sued the stadium owner on the theory it failed to provide adequate security for its patrons. At trial, the plaintiff's expert witness opined that the owner should have employed more security guards to patrol the area, and the jury awarded the plaintiff substantial damages. On appeal, the court reversed, holding that “abstract negligence,” without proof of a causal connection between the defendant's breach and the plaintiff's injury, is insufficient to sustain the award. [Citation].”  In Constance B., the plaintiff was assaulted at night in the restroom at a state highway rest area. The appellate court affirmed a grant of summary judgment in defendant state's favor, holding that the plaintiff, who saw her attacker watching her when she entered the restroom, failed to submit evidence showing that additional lighting would have prevented the attack. (Citation) The court observed that “If liability may be premised solely on this notion [that criminals are generally deterred by strong lighting], proprietors will become the insurers of the safety of persons on their premises, subject only to the caprice of particular juries. [Citation.]” (Citation)   In Nola M., the plaintiff was raped on a college campus and sued the college on the theory it should have provided more campus security. On appeal from a judgment in the plaintiff's favor, the Nola M. court reversed. The court assumed for purposes of argument that the plaintiff had submitted sufficient evidence that the defendant breached a duty of care toward her, but concluded that she failed to prove the breach was a legal cause of the assault. (Citation.) The court observed that to demonstrate actual or legal causation, the plaintiff must show that the defendant's act or omission was a “substantial factor” in bringing about the injury. (Citations). Nola M. concluded that the plaintiff must do more than simply criticize, through the speculative testimony of supposed security “experts,” the extent and worth of the defendant's security measures, and instead must show the injury was actually caused by the failure to provide greater measures. (Citation.) The court observed that a different rule would “make the landowner the insurer of the absolute safety of everyone who enters the premises.” (Citation.)”  (Saelzler, 25 Cal. 4th at 773–74.)  Similarly, the Court finds that Plaintiff speculates that the seating caused the patron behind Plaintiff to fall on her. There is no evidence that any change to the seating arrangement would have prevented the unidentified intoxicated man from falling on Plaintiff, such that it would not cause her injury. To hold otherwise would essentially make L.A. Arena the insurer of the safety of all persons for any falls that occur at its stadium, especially in the absence of any evidence for the fall. Thus, Plaintiff has not demonstrated a triable issue of material fact that, “more probable than not,” a change in the seating measurement would have prevented the intoxicated patron from falling on her. (Saelzler at 776.) The mere possibility that it may have caused or contributed to the man falling is not enough to establish causation.   IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, L.A. Arena Company, LLC’s motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff’s SAC is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   