 Case Number:  22STCV05251    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSE SIERRA, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,   Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV05251  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 4, 2024  I. BACKGROUND & PROCEDURAL HISTORY Plaintiffs Jose Sierra, individually and as successor in interest to the Estate of Jose Jesus Sierra III, and Jessica Sierra (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, State of California, Savannah Lee Johnson, Elecnor Belco Electric, Inc., Elecnor, Inc., The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision. The trial date is currently set for September 10, 2024.   On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed amendments to complaint naming Southern California Transportation & Tours Inc. as Doe 21 and SoCal Transportation as Doe 22. On December 20, 2023, Southern California Transportation & Tours Inc. dba SoCal Transportation (Doe 21 and Doe 22) (collectively, “SoCal”) filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint, and filed a cross-complaint against Diaz & Co, LLC (“Diaz”) and Zoes 1 through 25. SoCal now moves to continue the trial date so that its motion for summary judgment may be heard prior to trial. SoCal’s motion was previously denied on May 7, 2024 on the grounds that SoCal had reserved a motion for summary judgment hearing date without having filed the motion. On this renewed motion, SoCal has since filed its motion for summary judgment. SoCal requests the trial date be continued to April 15, 2025, or to a date thereafter.  As of May 21, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  II. MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL Here, there is good cause to continue the trial date. SoCal filed its MSJ on May 22, 2024, and a trial court cannot refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of CCP § 437c. (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918. 919.) Further, SoCal filed this motion to continue trial on May 8, 2024, which is four before the current trial date as opposed to waiting until the eve of trial. There are no alternative means identified to address these issues, and there is otherwise no prejudice shown to any party if trial is continued, especially as no parties oppose the motion.   III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, SoCal’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The September 10, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The August 27, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.¿ If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance.¿ Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   