 Case Number:  22STCV04326    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LIZZA SCHLUMBRECHT, Plaintiff(s), vs. KAREN SOLOMON, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 22STCV04326  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO QUASH   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 4, 2024  I. BACKGROUND  Plaintiff Lizza Schlumbrecht (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Karen Solomon (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle incident. Plaintiff now moves to quash Defendant’s deposition subpoena for production of business records issued and served on San Clemente Police Department (“SCPD”) and on Orange County Sherriff’s Department (“OCSD”). Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply. Moving Argument Plaintiff argues Defendant’s deposition subpoena for business records seeks any and all police reports from February 2020 filed against Yazdan Tora (“Tora”). Plaintiff argues the subpoenas are overbroad, irrelevant, and encroaches upon Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy. Plaintiff contends she may have reported a domestic violence incident with Tora to SCPD and OCSD, but that she suffered no injuries, and that the subpoena seeks reports unrelated to Plaintiff’s injuries arising from the automobile collision. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to serve Tora with a consumer notice.  Opposing Argument Defendant argues Plaintiff testified that in February 2020, she was involved in an altercation with her brother-in-law Tora, who hit her head and caused a bruise. Police were called regarding the incident, and reported to a medical provider that she had a persistent headache from the incident. Defendant contends the police reports are relevant for investigating the mechanism of injury, because Plaintiff claims similar injuries from the February 2020 incident. Defendant also contends that she was not required to service a notice to consumer because Tora is not a consumer since Defendant is not seeking personal records.  Reply Argument Plaintiff asserts Defendant has not demonstrated that there are less intrusive means of obtaining the information, and that Defendant fails to justify a fishing expedition into records that are beyond the February 2020 incident. Plaintiff reiterates that the subpoenas are overbroad and not relevant.   II. MOTION TO QUASH  Legal Standard California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.¿ In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”¿ “[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.”¿ (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)¿ Code Civ. Proc., section 1985.3 provides that a party whose records are being sought by a subpoena duces tecum must serve notice of the motion to quash at least five days before the production date. However, the court retains jurisdiction to hear a motion to quash even if it is brought after the production date. (Slagle v. Superior Court (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1312.) Analysis Defendant issued a subpoena to OCSD on March 8, 2024 seeking: “Any and all Police Report from February 2020 filed against Yazdan Tora. Any and all police and or accident records, including but not limited to investigation file, police report, witness statements, 911 calls/dispatch logs, photographs, negatives, body cam footage, video/digital CD’s, tapes, diagrams, measurements, notes and/or any other documents maintained in your files pertaining to the record subject.” (Habbas Decl; Exh. 1.) Defendants subsequently issued two additional subpoenas on March 11, 2024 with the same above language, except for the addition, “Scope of records limited to: 01/01/2014” as to the subpoena served on SCPD, and the addition of the language “Scope of records limited to: 01/01/2014 to present only” as to the subpoena served on OCSD. (Habbas Decl.; Exh. 2.) Here, Defendant does not dispute Plaintiff’s contention of a right to privacy, but rather argues that there is a need for the police report because the medical records are not enough. Any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2017.010.) Information is relevant if it might assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or reaching a settlement. (Haniff v Superior Court (2017) 9 CA5th 191, 205.) The Court finds that the subpoenas unreasonably seek information that is not relevant to the subject litigation. The report of domestic violence occurred in February 2020, yet here the subject subpoenas seek all records related to Tora, regardless of the identity of the reporting party, and encompass a broad span of years unrelated to the information sought.  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoenas issued to OCSD and SCPD is GRANTED.  California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).) Although Plaintiff’s motion was granted, the scope of discovery is broad and there was a tangential rationale for Defendant’s subpoenas. The Court therefore denies both parties’ request for sanctions. No sanctions are awarded.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    