  Case Number:  21STCV19670    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  NOLI ALBERTO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CALPERS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV19670  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 4, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On May 25, 2021, Plaintiff Noli Alberto (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants CalPERS, FSP - South Flower Street Associates, Richard C. Lewis, and Allied Universal Executive Protection, Intelligence Services, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for damages arising from an assault and battery, alleging that defendants failed to provide adequate security to protect Plaintiff on the premises. Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint naming Allied Universal Topco, LLC as Doe 1, Universal Protection Service, LP as Doe 2, ABM V Parking Services, LLC as Doe 3, and ABM Industry Groups, LLC as Doe 4.   On September 2, 2022, defendant FSP - South Flower Street Associates (“FSP”) filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. Trial is currently set for March 24, 2025.  FSP now seeks leave to file a permissive cross-complaint against defendant/cross-complainant Universal Protection Service, LP (“Universal”) for equitable indemnity, contribution and apportionment of fault, comparative fault, express contractual indemnity, breach of contract, and declaratory relief. Universal opposes the motion, and FSP filed a reply.  Moving Argument FSP asserts it did not file a cross-complaint earlier due to the transition of counsel and urgency imposed by a looming trial date. FSP argues that on July 7, 2023, its former counsel sent a tender of defense and indemnity to the insurance carrier for Universal based on the terms of the Master Services Agreement executed on March 23, 2018 between FSP and Universal. On July 13, 2023, a substitution of attorney was filed to appoint a new legal representative for FSP. FSP contends that Universal failed to respond to its multiple requests for defense and indemnity, and that it now seeks leave to file a cross-complaint. FSP argues that if leave is not granted, then it will file a separate action against Universal that will require a separate trial, whereas if leave is granted, all controversies may be resolved in the instant action.   Opposing Argument Universal argues the motion should be denied due to the delay and that the motion was brought in bad faith. Universal avers it will be prejudiced because discovery has already been exchanged, and that it would have to conduct discovery as to the cross-complaint to dispute the contractual language, which may necessitate further delay in trial. Universal argues that this permissive cross-complaint would not accrue unless there was a judgment against it.   Reply Argument FSP argues its cross-complaint is related to Plaintiff’s original claims, and that there is still ten months for Universal to conduct discovery. FSP argues it was not dilatory because tender was made in October 2022, and that its current counsel assumed responsibilities in July 2023 and followed up on the tender thereafter.  II. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT  Legal Standard A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.  (CCP §428.50(b).)   If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 94, 99.) Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) Further, where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50 supplements the authority provided generally to amend pleadings.  Discussion Here, FSP’s proposed cross-complaint against Universal is permissive, and leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) The proposed cross-complaint is related to Plaintiff’s underlying action, since the contractual agreement between FSP and Universal is only at issue due to Plaintiff’s claim for damages against the parties. The Court will not analyze the the merits of the proposed cross-complaint on a motion for leave when it is not, on its face, improper. The Court is not persuaded by Universal’s claim of prejudice due to additional discovery, as Universal does not specify how much additional discovery would be necessitated to be prejudicial. Further, the trial date is currently set for March 24, 2025. There is still nearly nine months prior to discovery cut-off, and the Court finds no reason for any additional discovery to not be completed by then, such that the current trial date may remain undisturbed. Further, bad faith is defined as, “dishonest purpose, moral obliquity, sinister motive, furtive design or ill will.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 100.) There is no substantial evidence of dishonest purpose, moral obliquity, or sinister motive for the Court to make any determination that any delay in seeking leave was in bad faith.   III. CONCLUSION The motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is therefore GRANTED. FSP is ordered to file a separate copy of its proposed cross-complaint within five (5) days of the date of this Order.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   