 Case Number:  21STCV23831    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MELISSA ASHLEY FRIEDMAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WILLIAM THOMAS SLOAN, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV23831  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES AND (2) MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  June 4, 2024  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Melissa Ashley Friedman (“Plaintiff”) propounded (1) form interrogatories, set two, (2) supplemental interrogatories, (3) supplemental request for production of documents, and (4) request for admissions, set one, on defendant William Thomas Sloan (“Defendant”) on January 31, 2024. Plaintiff asserts that verified responses to the outstanding discovery have not been served as of the date of the motion’s filing. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order compelling Defendant to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  In opposition, Defendant argues responses to the discovery requests have been served, without objection, and in substantial compliance with the discovery statute. The Court notes that the referred exhibits in defense counsel’s declaration are absent in its entirety.  In reply, Plaintiff disputes that verified responses had been served. Rather, Plaintiff avers that Defendant served unverified responses that are not in substantial compliance.   II.  MOTION TO COMPEL For a motion to compel initial discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.290, §2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a); §2031.300, subd. (a).)    There is no evidence demonstrating Defendant properly served verified responses, without objections, to the outstanding discovery. Plaintiff’s motion is therefore GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (1) form interrogatories, set two, (2) supplemental interrogatories, and (3) supplemental request for documents, without objections, within twenty (20) days. (CCP § 2030.290 (a),(b); §2031.300 (a),(b).)  II.  MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED Under Code of Civil Procedure 2033.280(b), failure to respond to requests for admission in a timely manner allows the requesting party to “move for an order that…the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted” by the party that failed to respond.  The requesting party’s motion must be granted by the court, “unless [the court] finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)    Plaintiff propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on Defendant on January 31, 2024. Defense counsel’s declaration fails to attach the referenced exhibit, and Plaintiff disputes that verified responses were served. There is no evidence that any responses in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220 were served before the hearing on the motion.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. (CCP §2033.280(b).) Plaintiff’s request for admissions, set one, is deemed admitted against Defendant.    III.  SANCTIONS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. Defendant fails to justify an hourly rate of $1,000 per hour, and there is no reasonable basis for this motion to have taken 8 hours to prepare.   IV.  ADDITIONAL FILING FEES The Court notes that Plaintiff filed a single motion for what should have been four separate motions as to the motions to compel form interrogatories, supplemental interrogatories, supplemental request for production of documents, and request for admissions be deemed admitted. Combining discovery motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees. Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to demand and receive them. (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Thus, Plaintiff is ordered to pay three (3) additional filing fees. This ruling will be final only upon proof of payment of the filing fees.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of June 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   