 Case Number:  23CHCV02873    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-22-24
Case #23CHCV02873 , Protective Insurance Company vs. Angel On
My Shoulder, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND DEFENDANT’S NAME IN JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Plaintiff Protective Insurance Company
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend the judgment to add another name for Defendant.
 
RULING: Motion
is continued.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Judgment was
entered against Defendant Angel On My Shoulder, Inc. (Defendant) on December 5,
2023. Plaintiff Protective Insurance Company (Plaintiff) filed this motion to
amend Defendant’s name in the judgment after Plaintiff’s counsel discovered,
through a search of Defendant’s business records, that Defendant also goes by
Angeles On My Shoulder, Inc. The evidence that Plaintiff’s counsel has
submitted in support of this motion is his own declaration that he discovered
this information and that he is informed that Defendant uses both names
interchangeably. (Booska Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
Plaintiff seeks
to amend Defendant’s name on the judgment so that it reads “ANGEL ON MY
SHOULDER, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION aka ANGELES ON MY SHOULDER, INC., A
CALIFORNIA CORPORATION.”
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
Courts have
held that CCP § 187 gives trial courts jurisdiction to add additional judgment
debtors. (See McClellan v. Northridge Park Townhome Owners Ass’n, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.) Judgments can be “‘amended to add additional
judgment debtors on the grounds that a person or entity is the alter ego of the
original judgment debtor. [Citations.] This is an equitable procedure based on
the theory that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but
is merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant. [Citations.] “Such
a procedure is an appropriate and complete method by which to bind new
individual defendants where it can be demonstrated that in their capacity as
alter ego of the corporation they in fact had control of the previous
litigation, and thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.”’” (Id.)
Successor corporations may also be added to a judgment in a similar manner. (Id.
at 753.)
 
Plaintiff
contends in its motion that what it is not attempting to go so far as to add an
additional judgment debtor or an alter ego entity or a successor corporation.
Instead, Plaintiff is simply trying to add an additional name for the judgment
debtor. 
 
The Court is
concerned that Plaintiff has not provided sufficient evidence that Angeles On
My Shoulder is simply an “aka” of Angel On My Shoulder. The declaration of
Plaintiff’s attorney states that he discovered this through Defendant’s business
records, but does not specify which business records or whether he found the
information on the Secretary of State’s website or someplace else. 
 
On the off
chance that Angeles On My Shoulder is a totally separate and unrelated entity,
the Court will request more information on how Plaintiff’s attorney came by
this information. The Court will continue the hearing and request supplemental
information, with dates for both to be set at the hearing on this motion.
 
Moving party to
give notice.