  Case Number:  22CHCV00728    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-22-24
Case #22CHCV00728,
Albert Gonzales vs. Daniel Torres, et al.
Trial Date: 7-15-24
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Abel Gonzalez
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Daniel Torres
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff is
requesting further responses from Defendant for Special Interrogatory Nos. 25-34
from Special Interrogatories, Set Two.
 
RULING: Parties
are ordered to meet and confer and submit a joint statement of remaining
issues.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION AND ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs Abel
Gonzalez, Albert Gonzalez, Jr., and Albert Gonzalez (Plaintiffs) were
shareholders of Pueblo Restaurant, Inc., (Pueblo) with Defendant Daniel Torres
(Defendant). Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendant took control of the
business and paid out funds to himself and failed to pay the other
shareholders. 
 
On April 3,
2023, Plaintiff Abel Gonzalez (Plaintiff) served his special interrogatories on
Defendant. On May 10, 2023, the Court appointed a receiver to oversee Pueblo. Defendant
claimed in his initial responses to discovery that the appointment of this
receiver prevented him from accessing the relevant documents at Pueblo (though
the Court would note that the receiver was appointed after the 30-day deadline
to respond to discovery).
 
On May 1, 2023,
Defendant filed motions for protective orders rather than respond to the
discovery. These motions were denied on August 30, 2023. On September 1, 2023,
Plaintiff then gave Defendant, at Defendant’s request, 60 days to respond to
the discovery at issue.
 
On October 31,
2023, Defendant served his responses to the special interrogatories. For
Special Interrogatory Nos. 25-34, his answers were boilerplate objections that
claimed that Pueblo alone had access to the documents sought.
 
Plaintiff sent
meet and confer letters to Defendant on November 1, 2023, and November 9, 2023,
but received no response from Defendant. Plaintiff filed this motion to compel
on November 15, 2023. Plaintiff also requested sanctions in the amount of
$1,660.00 with his motion. This motion is set for hearing on May 22, 2024.
 
Over 5 months
after Plaintiff filed this motion, Defendant served supplemental responses on
April 30, 2024. Plaintiff claims that some of these responses were substandard.
The Court would note that each of these supplemental responses state that
Defendant conducted a reasonable search and diligent inquiry and was not able
to locate documents responsive to Plaintiff’s request. Typically, this is a
sufficient response when a party claims to not have responsive documents.
Plaintiff met and conferred with Defendant regarding these supplemental
responses on May 3, 2024.
 
On May 7, 2024,
Defendant provided further supplemental responses to Special Interrogatory Nos.
25, 28, 31, and 34. With these further responses, he also provided some
documents. Plaintiff points out in his reply that this appears to contradict Defendant’s
April 30 responses, which stated that he could not locate any documents.
 
Defendant filed
his opposition to Plaintiff’s motion on May 9, 2024. Defendant argues in his
opposition that he did not have access to any of the documents after the
receiver was appointed for Pueblo, and that the receiver was able to locate the
files. He also argues that he has previously provided Plaintiff with the
location of the documents. Finally, he argues that sanctions are not warranted
against him and that Plaintiff should instead be sanctioned for bringing this
motion.
 
Plaintiff filed
his reply on May 13, 2024. It is not clear from Plaintiff’s reply whether any
of Defendant’s responses to the special interrogatories still require
supplementation. Plaintiff requests that the Court grant the motion, but
Plaintiff does not say which responses require further supplementation.
 
Because the
Court is unable to tell which responses Plaintiff believes still require
supplementation, the Court orders the parties to meet and confer and file a
joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court. The joint
statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments.
 
ORDER  
1. The parties
are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer. 
 
2. The parties
shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described above. The
format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made. 
 
3. The dates
for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the hearing on this
motion. The Court will also determine whether sanctions are warranted at
the status conference.
 
4. Moving party
to provide notice. 
 
 
 