 Case Number:  23STCP02273    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  26   

Fox Capital Group, Inc. v. Cornell Constr. Services
Inc., et al.MOTION TO VACATE
SISTER STATE JUDGMENT

(CCP §§ 1710.30,
et seq.) TENTATIVE RULING:   Judgment  Debtor Robert Anthony Cornell’s Motion to Vacate Sister-State Judgment is  DENIED.       ANALYSIS:   On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff and  Judgment Creditor Fox Capital Group, Inc. (“Judgment Creditor”) filed an  application for entry of judgment on sister-state judgment against Defendants  and Judgment Debtors Cornell Construction Services, Inc., Cornell Consulting  Services, LLC, and Robert Anthony Cornell (“Judgment Debtor Cornell”). The  sister-state court was the Supreme Court of the State of New York County of  Kings, with a total amount of judgment of $16,996.18. On June 29, 2023,  judgment was entered based on the sister-state judgment.   On August 8, 2023, Judgment Debtor  Cornell filed the instant Motion to Vacate Sister-State Judgment. On September  5, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an opposition. On September 18, 2023, the  Court continued the hearing to October 30, 2023; on October 30, 2023, the  action was transferred from Department 25 in the Spring Street Courthouse to  Department 26 in the Spring Street Courthouse. To date, no reply has been  filed.   Discussion   Judgment Debtor Cornell had 30  days from personal service of the notice of entry of the sister state judgment  on July 13, 2023, to make a motion to vacate the judgment.The Motion to  Vacate was timely filed and served on August 8, 2023, which was 26 days from  notice. Code of Civil Procedure section  1710.40, subdivision (a) provides that “[a] judgment entered pursuant to this  chapter may be vacated on any ground which would be a defense to an action in  this state on the sister state judgment, including the ground that the amount  of interest accrued on the sister state judgment and included in the judgment  entered pursuant to this chapter is incorrect.” “Upon the hearing of the motion  to vacate the judgment under this section, the judgment may be vacated upon any  ground provided in subdivision (a) and another and different judgment entered,  including, but not limited to, another and different judgment for the judgment  creditor if the decision is that the judgment creditor is entitled to such  different judgment ….” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1710.40, subd. (c).) “The party  moving under section 1710.40 to set aside the sister state judgment has ‘the  burden to show by a preponderance of the evidence why it was entitled to  relief. [Citation.]  [Citation.]” (Conseco  Marketing, LLC v. IFA & Ins. Services, Inc. (2013) 221  Cal.App.4th 831, 841.) This burden can be met where “the movant proves service  of process in the sister state action was not made or was defective,” rendering  such a judgment “void for lack of fundamental jurisdiction.” (Id.  at p. 841.) Judgment Debtor Cornell argues  that Judgment Creditor failed to properly serve notice on him, a resident of  California, that legal action in the state of New York involving his business  and personal property was being initiated, and subsequently adjudicated on August  9, 2018. However, Judgment Debtor Cornell fails to provide any evidence in  showing that service was not made or was defective. Indeed, the declaration  attached only provides that he had no knowledge that judgment had been entered  against him in the State of New York until he was served with a notice of entry  of judgment on sister-state judgment on July 13, 2023. (Motion, Cornell Decl.,  ¶3.) This is insufficient to render the judgment void since Judgment Debtor  Cornell has not satisfied his burden in proving service of process in the  sister state action was not made or was defective. Similarly, the Motion does  not offer legal authority or analysis on the second ground: that Judgment  Creditor failed to acquire jurisdiction in the State of New York. (Motion, p.  6:17-21.)  Next, Judgment Debtor Cornell  argues that the Judgment of Confession is invalid because it does not  accurately describe the contractual terms of the loan agreement, nor  demonstrate a waiver of personal service or his right to due process. No  authority is cited for these requirements. Judgment Debtor Cornell then argues  that under Code of Civil Procedure section 1132, subdivision (b), the  Confession of Judgment is invalid as a legal instrument in California because  it lacks a declaration from an independent attorney verifying that the  Confession was entered into after advice of counsel. As pointed out in the  opposition, Judgment Debtor has not shown that this is a defense to a judgment  in this state. (Motion, pp. 6:22-7:7.) Finally, the Motion argues that Judgment  Debtor Cornell is filing an affidavit to show cause in New York Supreme Court  but cites no authority as to how this is grounds to vacate the sister-state  judgment. (Id. at p. 7:8-11.)  Conclusion   Judgment Debtor Robert Anthony  Cornell’s Motion to Vacate Sister-State Judgment is DENIED.     Court clerk to give  notice.   