 Case Number:  23PSCV01634    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: Alan Aguilar,
et al. v. Thong H Pham
Demurrer to Answer to Complaint 
TENTATIVE RULING
The Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer to Defendant’s answer with leave to amend as to the Tenth
Affirmative Defense and OVERRULES the demurrer as to the Twenty-Fourth
Affirmative Defense. Defendant must file and serve an amended answer within 30
days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiff is ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND
This
is a habitability case. On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Alan Aguilar and Karina
Cervantes Ruiz (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against Defendant Thong
H Pham (Defendant) and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for violation
of Civil Code section 1942.4, tortious breach of the warranty of habitability, private
nuisance, Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq., negligence, breach
of covenant of quiet enjoyment, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence
per se, violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act California Civil Code section
1750 et seq., intentional influence to vacate, retaliatory eviction Civil Code
section 1942.5. 
On
October 25, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer without leave to
amend as to the Ninth Cause of Action for Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies
Act. On November 3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. On November
13, 2023, Plaintiff demurred to the Tenth and Twenty-Fourth Affirmative
Defenses in Defendant’s answer. On November 29, 2023, Defendant opposed the
demurrer. On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
A
party against whom an answer has been filed may object, by demurrer as provided
in Section 430.30, to the answer upon any one or more of the following grounds:
(a)
The answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.
(b)
The answer is uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible.
(c)
Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer
whether the contract is written or oral. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.) 
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ.
Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the
truthfulness of the pleading; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all
facts pleaded in the pleading are assumed to be true. (See Id.) 
 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].)  
MEET AND
CONFER
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a), the parties were required to meet and confer in person
or by telephone before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a).) The Court finds the parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be
insufficient, as there is no indication counsel for the parties spoke with each
other in person or telephonically. (Partiyeli Decl., ¶ 3.) Nevertheless, the
Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the demurrer
but admonishes the parties to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure going forward. 
CIVILITY
            The
Court finds the tone in the parties’ respective briefs to be uncivil and
unprofessional. “Neither written submissions nor oral presentations should
disparage the intelligence, ethics, morals, integrity or personal behavior of
one’s adversaries, unless such things are directly and necessarily in issue.”
(Ch. 3, Civil Division, Appendix 3.A, subd. (c)(2).) “Counsel should at all
times be civil and courteous in communicating with adversaries, whether in
writing or orally.” (Id., subd. (d)(1).) The Court admonishes counsel
for the parties to be civil and professional toward each other throughout this
action. 
DISCUSSION
            Tenth Affirmative Defense – Statute of Limitations
            “There are two ways to properly plead a statute of
limitations: (1) allege facts showing that the action is barred, and indicating
that the lateness of the action is being urged as a defense and (2) plead the
specific section and subdivision. [Citation.]” (Martin v. Van Bergen
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 84, 91.) “In pleading the Statute of Limitations it is
not necessary to state the facts showing the defense, but it may be stated
generally that the cause of action is barred by the provisions of Section ____
(giving the number of the section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided,
relied upon) of the Code of Civil Procedure; and if such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts
showing that the cause of action is so barred.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 458.) 
            Plaintiff contends Defendant’s
Tenth Affirmative Defense based on the statute of limitations fails to state a
defense because it neither pleads facts showing that the action is barred or
the specific code section and subdivision per Code of Civil Procedure section 458.
The Court agrees. Defendant’s Tenth Affirmative Defense simply alleges that, “The
answering Defendant is informed and believes and thereupon alleges that the
Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the applicable statute of limitations.” (Answer,
¶ 14.) This is insufficient to plead an affirmative defense based on the
statute of limitations. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Tenth Affirmative Defense with leave to amend. 
            Twenty-Fourth Affirmative Defense
– Parol Evidence and Integration
            A demurrer for uncertainty means the pleading is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) ““ ‘[D]emurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.’ ” (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019)
38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) 
Plaintiff
contends Defendant’s Twenty-Fourth Affirmative Defense for parol evidence and
integration is uncertain because it references the First Amended Complaint, yet
the answer is entitled “Answer to the Complaint.” (Answer, Caption Page, ¶ 28.)
The Court finds this argument unavailing. At most, this is poor draftsmanship,
but it is far from being unintelligible and incomprehensible. The answer
specifically states at the outset that it is responding to Plaintiff’s
complaint. (Answer, 1:23-25.) 
Therefore,
the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Twenty-Fourth Affirmative Defense.
However, if Defendant chooses to file an amended Answer, the typo in the
Twenty-Fourth Affirmative Defense should be corrected. 
CONCLUSION
The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to Defendant’s answer with leave to amend as to the Tenth
Affirmative Defense and OVERRULES the demurrer as to the Twenty-Fourth
Affirmative Defense. Defendant must file and serve an amended answer within 30
days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same
within five calendar days of this order.