 Case Number:  22PSCV01143    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Eva  Lopez v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., et al.Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration TENTATIVE  RULINGThe Court GRANTS the motion to compel binding arbitration as to  Defendant D. Longo, LLC, and DENIES as to Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A.,  Inc. The Court STAYS this action pending arbitration.               D. Longo, LLC is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. BACKGROUNDThis is a lemon law case. On September 30, 2022, plaintiff Eva  Lopez (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Toyota Motor Sales,  U.S.A., Inc. (Toyota), D. Longo, LLC (Longo) (collectively, Defendants), and  Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for violations of the Consumer  Legal Remedies Act, breach of implied warranty of merchantability, and  conversion. On February 16, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel binding arbitration.  On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On May 30, 2023, Defendants replied. LEGAL  STANDARD            Parties may be compelled to  arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.  Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,  1060.) “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid., internal quotations  omitted.) This is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring  arbitration agreements under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), which governs  all agreements to arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9  U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140  Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) DISCUSSION            FAA v. CAA            “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not  apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them. [Citation.] [T]he question is not whether the parties  adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the  comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.  The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345, internal quotation marks omitted.)           “[P]revious cases have held that when  an arbitration agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by  California law, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion  to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its  ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to  compel arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC  (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.)             The Court finds that the applicable  law governing this motion to compel arbitration is the CAA because nothing in  the language of the Arbitration Agreement (defined below) states that the FAA  governs its enforcement. (See Beatty Decl., Ex. A; Victrola 89, LLC, supra, 46  Cal.App.5th at p. 346.)           Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a  preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities  Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,  413.) “If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to  enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory  defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of  producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact  necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial  burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a  copy to the motion. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) Defendants have attached a copy of a Retail Installment Sale  Contract (Sale Contract) for the subject vehicle to their moving papers. (Beatty  Decl., Ex. A.) That agreement also contains an arbitration clause (Arbitration  Agreement). (Beatty Decl., Ex. A.) Thus, it is undisputed that Plaintiff signed  an agreement for the sale of the vehicle, which explicitly included an  arbitration clause and an agreement to arbitrate. Accordingly, Defendants have  met their initial burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to challenge the  validity of the Arbitration Agreement. Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the Sales Contract or  the Arbitration Agreement. Instead, Plaintiff contends that Defendants are not entitled  to move to compel arbitration of this dispute per Ford Motor Warranty Cases  (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324. The Court agrees that Toyota may  not move to compel arbitration, but disagrees that Longo may not move to compel  arbitration. The Court notes that this action is proceeding against both Toyota  the manufacturer and Longo the dealer, whereas Ochoa involved only the  manufacturer. Here, Longo is a party  to the Sales Contract and Arbitration Agreement with Plaintiff. The Arbitration  Agreement broadly encompasses disputes between Plaintiff and Longo. (See Beatty  Decl., Ex. A, italics added [“Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort,  statute or otherwise… between you and us or our employees, agents, successors  or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase  or condition of this vehicle…”])[1] Plaintiff does not  dispute that Longo is a party to the Sales Contract and Arbitration Agreement  or otherwise provide much argument regarding Longo being a party to them.  Rather, Plaintiff’s opposition focuses on the issue of equitable estoppel and  third parties, which are inapposite to Longo. Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion  to compel arbitration as to Longo. Equitable EstoppelToyota concedes that it is not a party to the Arbitration  Agreement, but argues instead that it is entitled to enforce the Arbitration  Agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Toyota relies on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, arguing that  Plaintiff’s claims arise out of and are intertwined with the underlying  contract obligations of the Sales Contract. (Id. at p. 495; Boucher  v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262, 271, [“[U]nder  both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may  invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its  claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately  founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”]; Goldman  v. KPMG LLP  (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th  209, 217-218.) In Felisilda, the First  District of the Court of Appeal found that purchasers of a vehicle were  estopped from refusing to arbitrate Song-Beverly Act claims against the vehicle  manufacturer, based on an agreement between the purchaser and the vehicle  dealer. (See Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-499.) The  relevant portions of the subject arbitration agreement in Felisilda are identical to those in the Lease  Agreement: ARBITRATION  PROVISION [¶] ... [¶]1. EITHER YOU  OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT  IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. . . .Any claim or  dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the  interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability  of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,  successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to ... condition  of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship  (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this  contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding  arbitration and not by a court action. . . (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490, italics in  original.)  The Court of  Appeal in Felisilda found that because the plaintiffs  “expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the  vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they  are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the manufacturer].”  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 497.) As such, the Court of  Appeal found the plaintiffs’ claims in that action arose out of the condition  of the vehicle and were covered by the arbitration provision in that contract.  The Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ claims were “founded on or  intimately connected” with the contract in that action because they arose out  of the condition of the vehicle. (Id.  at p. 496.) However, earlier  this year, the Second District of the Court of Appeal rejected application of Felisilda in a similar motion to compel  arbitration by a car manufacturer in a lemon law case. (Ford Motor Warranty  Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal. App. 4th 1324, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611 (“Ochoa”).  Additionally,  on June 26, 2023, the Second District of the Court of Appeal decided the case Montemayor  v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, in which the Court of Appeal  also rejected the holding in Felisilda that equitable estoppel applies  to enable a non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision in a  sales contract like the contract at issue in this case. The Court of Appeal  further rejected Felisilda and followed Ochoa in other recently  issued opinions, such as Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th  614 and Jaclyn Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2023) 94  Cal.App.5th 264. The Second District in Ochoa found that the arbitration  language was insufficient to support the manufacturer’s equitable estoppel  argument. In relevant part, Ochoa expressly  diverged from Felisilda's analysis that "the sales contract was the  source" of the warranties at issue. (Felisilda, supra, 53  Cal.App.5th at 496.) Instead, Ochoa concluded that “manufacturer vehicle  warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the  terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent  of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra, at 619.) Thus, the Court found  equitable estoppel to be inapplicable because the plaintiffs' claims "in  no way rel[ied] on the sale contracts." (Id. at 621.) The  Court of Appeal held that this language in the arbitration clause referring to  arbitration of claims “against third party nonsignatories” cannot mandate  arbitration of the warranty claims. Rather, such language agreed to  arbitrate claims against third parties whose service, etc., are financed under  the sales contract. (Id.) The Second District also found that the warranty claims were not  founded in the sales contracts. The warranty claims arose out of statutory  obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to  repair in accordance with the warranty or related claims. They did not  arise out of any express contractual language in the sales contracts, which  themselves do not include any warranties, or assurance regarding the vehicle’s  performance, or any promise of repairs or remedies if contracts arise. “To  the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the  dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle  that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.” (Ochoa, supra, 89  Cal.App.5th at p. 1335.) In short, “the substantive terms of the sale contracts  relate to sale and financing and nothing more.” (Ibid.) Thus, there is a split of authority on this point of law.  "[W]here there is more than one appellate court decision, and such  appellate decisions are in conflict . . . the court exercising inferior  jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting  decisions." (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Ct. of Santa Clara  Cnty. (1962) 57 Cal. 2d 450, 456.) The Court finds Ochoa and the  cases following it to be the better reasoned cases which more precisely examine  the contract terms and long-standing warranty law distinguishing between  manufacture warranties and retailer sale contracts. (See Ochoa, supra,  at 621-622.) Indeed, the Court finds the same rationale and reasoning in Ochoa  applies here. The substantive terms of the Sales Contract relate to the  sale and financing of the subject vehicle, do not set forth the terms of the  warranties between Toyota and Plaintiff, and directly disclaims any warranties  by the seller, i.e., Longo. (See Beatty Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 12.) Toyota’s obligations  in this context arise under operation of law, not contract. (See Ochoa,  supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334). Thus, the warranties were not  inextricably intertwined with or founded in the Sales Contract for purposes of  equitable estoppel. Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Toyota’s equitable  estoppel theory. Third-Party  Beneficiary           For Toyota’s contention of enforcing the arbitration agreement as  a third-party beneficiary to be true, “the parties to the contract must have  intended the third party to benefit.” (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 27  Cal.4th 516, 524.) To do so, Toyota must show that “(1)…the third party  would in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2)…a motivating purpose of  the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and  (3)…permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action against  a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements must be  satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.” (Goonewardene v.  ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) The Court of Appeal in Ochoa also rejected the auto  manufacturer’s third-party beneficiary argument. Analyzing the Ninth Circuit  Court of Appeal's recent decision in Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (2022) 23 F.4th 942, the Second District agreed that the sales contracts reflect  no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under the Goonewardene factor  – nothing in the sales contracts or their arbitration provision offers any  direct “benefit” to the manufacturer, there was no indication that a benefit to  the manufacturer was a motivating purpose of the contract, and allowing the  manufacturer to enforce the arbitration would be inconsistent with the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1337-1338.) Applying the same reasoning here, there is insufficient evidence  to show a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a  benefit to Toyota. Civil Code section 1559 requires that a contract benefiting  a third party must be made expressly for the benefit of a third person before  that third party can enforce it. (Civ. Code § 1559.) The Court finds no  language in the Sales Contract or Arbitration Agreement indicating an express  intent to benefit Toyota, nor does the Court find that allowing Toyota to  compel arbitration would be consistent with the reasonable expectations of the  contracting parties. Here, the arbitration provision expressly states that only two parties—Plaintiff  Lopez and the Seller-Creditor Longo—may compel arbitration. The contract  defines "you" as Plaintiff Lopez and "we" as the Seller-Creditor  Longo. The provision specifies that "[e]ither you or we may choose  to have any dispute between us decided by arbitration and not in court or by  jury trial." (emphasis added). The clause also states that "[a]ny  claim or dispute . . . between you and us or our employees, agents, successors  or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase  or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or  relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not  sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by  neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action." (emphasis added).  (Beatty Decl., Ex. A.) Though the language allows for arbitration of certain  claims concerning third parties, it still gives only Plaintiff and Longo the  power to compel arbitration. Nothing in the clause or, for that matter, in the  purchase agreement reflects any intention to benefit Toyota by allowing it to  take advantage of the arbitration provision. Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Toyota’s third-party  beneficiary argument as well, and DENIES the motion to compel arbitration as to  Toyota. Given the Court’s decision herein to grant the motion to compel  arbitration as to Longo and deny as to Toyota, the Court exercises its  discretion to stay this action as to Toyota pending Plaintiff’s and Longo’s  completion of arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Id. § 1281.4.) CONCLUSIONThe Court GRANTS the motion to compel binding arbitration as to  Defendant D. Longo, LLC, and DENIES as to Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A.,  Inc. The Court STAYS this action pending arbitration.               D. Longo, LLC is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.      