  Case Number:  22PSCV00898    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Shelly  Serrato, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al. 1.      Motion to  Compel Arbitration and Stay Action; and2.      Motion to  Stay the Entire Action  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES the motion to compel arbitration and stay action.  The Court also DENIES the motion to stay the entire action as moot.                Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a lemon law case. On August 19, 2022, plaintiffs Shelly  Serrato and Peter M. Serrato (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action  against defendants Ford Motor Company (Ford), Colley Ford (Colley), and Does 1  through 10, alleging causes of action for violations of subdivision (d), (b),  and (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2, breach of the implied warranty of  merchantability, and negligent repair.  On December 23, 2022, Ford and Colley filed a motion to compel  arbitration and stay action, and a motion to stay the entire action. On April  26, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed the motion to compel arbitration and stay action. On  May 2, 2023, Ford and Colley replied.               On June 15, 2023, Plaintiffs  dismissed Colley from this action without prejudice.[1]  LEGAL  STANDARD      Parties may be compelled to  arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.  Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,  1060.)    “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et  seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES             The Court notes that Plaintiffs’  opposition is 17 pages long, which exceeds the 15-page limit for opposition  memoranda. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (d).) Memoranda that exceed  their page limit are filed and considered in the same manner as a late-filed  paper. (Id., subd. (g).) Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ opposition is  considered late. Nevertheless, Ford did not raise this issue in its reply  papers. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43  Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal.  Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) The Court exercises  its discretion to still consider Plaintiffs’ opposition, but admonishes  Plaintiffs to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court  going forward.  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             The  Court DENIES Ford’s request for judicial notice. “Although the existence of a document may be judicially noticeable,  the truth of statements contained in the document and its proper interpretation  are not subject to judicial notice if those matters are reasonably disputable.  [Citation.]” (Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 97, 113, italics in original.)              The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice  of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity  of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial  notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION             FAA v. CAA             “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not  apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them. [Citation.] [T]he question is not whether the parties  adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the  comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.  The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345, internal quotation marks omitted.)            “[P]revious cases have held that when  an arbitration agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by  California law, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion  to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its  ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to  compel arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC  (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.)              The Court finds that the applicable  law governing this motion to compel arbitration is the CAA because nothing in  the language of the Arbitration Agreement (defined below) states that the FAA  governs its enforcement. (See Keithly Decl., Ex. A; Victrola 89, LLC, supra,  46 Cal.App.5th at p. 346.)            Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement “[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a  preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities  Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,  413.) “If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to  enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory  defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of  producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact  necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial  burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a  copy to the motion. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.)  Ford has attached a copy a California Motor Vehicle Lease  Agreement (Lease Agreement) for the subject vehicle to its moving papers. (Keithly  Decl., Ex. A.) That agreement also contains an arbitration clause (Arbitration  Agreement). (Id.) Accordingly, Ford has met its initial burden. The  burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to challenge the validity of the Arbitration  Agreement.  Plaintiffs contend that no arbitration agreement exists between  Plaintiffs and Ford. Plaintiffs argue that the parties to the Lease Agreement  are Plaintiffs on the one hand and Colley on the other, and that the terms of  the Arbitration Agreement do not cover warranty disputes or otherwise give Ford  the right to elect arbitration. Plaintiffs further argue that Ford does not fall  into the category of “employees, agents, successors or assigns, subsidiaries,  or affiliates” or “third parties.” (Keithly Decl., Ex. A.) The Court agrees.  First, Ford is not a party to the Lease Agreement or Arbitration  Agreement, which fact Ford does not dispute. (See Keithly Decl., Ex. A.) Second,  since the Court denied Ford’s request for judicial notice, none of Ford’s evidence  shows that it is an affiliate of Ford Motor Credit Company (FMCC) as Ford claims.[2] The Court will address the arguments regarding whether the Arbitration  Agreement covers warranty disputes and whether Ford constitutes a “third party”  in greater depth below.  Equitable Estoppel Ford tacitly concedes that it is not a party to the Arbitration  Agreement, but contends instead that it is entitled to enforce the Arbitration  Agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Ford relies on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, arguing that  Plaintiff’s claims arise out of and are intertwined with the underlying  contract obligations of the Lease Agreement. (Id. at p. 495; Boucher  v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262, 271, [“[U]nder  both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may  invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its  claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately  founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”]; Goldman  v. KPMG LLP  (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th  209, 217-218.)  In Felisilda, the First  District of the Court of Appeal found that purchasers of a vehicle were  estopped from refusing to arbitrate Song-Beverly Act claims against the vehicle  manufacturer, based on an agreement between the purchaser and the vehicle  dealer. (See Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-499.) The  relevant portions of the subject arbitration agreement in Felisilda are somewhat similar to those in the  Lease Agreement:  ARBITRATION  PROVISION [¶] ... [¶] 1. EITHER YOU  OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT  IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. . . . Any claim or  dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the  interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability  of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,  successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to ... condition  of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship  (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this  contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding  arbitration and not by a court action. . .  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490, emphasis in  original.)   The Court of  Appeal in Felisilda found that because the plaintiffs  “expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the  vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they  are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the manufacturer].”  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 497.) As such, the Court of  Appeal found the plaintiffs’ claims in that action arose out of the condition  of the vehicle and were covered by the arbitration provision in that contract.  The Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ claims were “founded on or  intimately connected” with the contract in that action because they arose out  of the condition of the vehicle.   However, earlier  this year, the Second District of the Court of Appeal rejected application of Felisilda in a similar motion to compel  arbitration by a car manufacturer in a lemon law case. (Ford Motor Warranty  Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal. App. 4th 1324, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611 (“Ochoa”).  Additionally,  on June 26, 2023, the Second District of the Court of Appeal decided the case Montemayor  v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, in which the Court of Appeal  also rejected the holding in Felisilda that equitable estoppel applies  to enable a non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision in a  sales contract like the contract at issue in this case. The Court of Appeal  further rejected Felisilda and followed Ochoa in other recently  issued opinions, such as Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th  614 and Jaclyn Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2023) 94  Cal.App.5th 264.  The Second District in Ochoa found that the arbitration  language at issue in that case was insufficient to support the manufacturer’s  equitable estoppel argument, stating that the breach of warranty claims were  not based on the sales contracts with the dealers, but were completely  independent from the terms of the sales contract. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.) The  Court of Appeal held that this language in the arbitration clause referring to  arbitration of claims “against third party nonsignatories” cannot mandate  arbitration of the warranty claims. Rather, such language agreed to  arbitrate claims against third parties whose service, etc., are financed under  the sales contract. (Id.)  The Second District also found that the warranty claims were not  founded in the sales contracts. The warranty claims arose out of statutory  obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to  repair in accordance with the warranty or related claims. They did not  arise out of any express contractual language in the sales contracts, which  themselves do not include any warranties, or assurance regarding the vehicle’s  performance, or any promise of repairs or remedies if contracts arise. “To  the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the  dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle  that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.” (Ochoa, supra, 89  Cal.App.5th at p. 1335.) In short, “the substantive terms of the sale contracts  relate to sale and financing and nothing more.” (Ibid.)  The Court finds the same rationale and reasoning applies here. The  purpose of the Lease Agreement was the financing of Plaintiffs’ lease of the  subject vehicle. The Lease Agreement specifically notes that the warranties at  issue are from Ford, not FMCC, (see Keithly Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 12), and arise  under operation of law, not contract, (see Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th  at p. 1334). Thus, the warranties were not inextricably intertwined with or  founded in the Lease Agreement for purposes of equitable estoppel.  Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Ford’s equitable  estoppel theory.  Third-Party  Beneficiary            For Ford’s contention of enforcing the arbitration agreement as a  third-party beneficiary to be true, “the parties to the contract must have  intended the third party to benefit.” (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 27  Cal.4th 516, 524.) To do so, Ford must show that “(1)…the third party  would in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2)…a motivating purpose of  the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and  (3)…permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action against  a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements must be  satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.” (Goonewardene v.  ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)  The Court of Appeal in Ochoa also rejected the auto  manufacturer’s third-party beneficiary argument. Analyzing the Ninth Circuit  Court of Appeal's recent decision in Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (2022) 23 F.4th 942, the Second District agreed that the sales contracts reflect  no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under Goonewardene –  nothing in the sales contracts or their arbitration provision offers any direct  “benefit” to the manufacturer, there was no indication that a benefit to the  manufacturer was a motivating purpose of the contract, and allowing the  manufacturer to enforce the arbitration would be inconsistent with the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1337-1338.)  Applying the same reasoning here, there is insufficient evidence  to show whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide  a benefit to Ford. Civil Code section 1559 requires that a contract benefiting  a third party must be made expressly for the benefit of a third person before  that third party can enforce it. (Civ. Code § 1559.) The Court finds no  language in the Lease Agreement or Arbitration Agreement indicating an express  intent to benefit Ford, nor does the Court find that allowing Ford to compel  arbitration would be consistent with the reasonable expectations of the  contracting parties.  Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects this argument as well,  and DENIES the motion to compel arbitration and stay action.  Ford’s other motion to stay the entire action is DENIED as moot,  as it was filed to stay this action pending the Court’s decision on the motion  to compel arbitration.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the motion to compel arbitration and stay action.  The Court also DENIES the motion to stay the entire action as moot.                Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.    