 Case Number:  23STCV31055    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Having considered the moving papers,  the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs  Joshua Nassir, individually and as successor in interest to Decedent Soheila Hobebsion,  and Omid Nassir, individually and as successor in interest to Decedent Soheila  Hobebsion, filed this action against Defendants Julius Terrell (“Terrell”),  Mike Levy (“Levy”), and Does 1-20 for wrongful death and negligence.  On January 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  a first amended complaint.  On March 1, 2024, Terrell filed an  answer to the first amended complaint and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Levy and Roes 1-20 for indemnity, apportionment of fault,  comparative fault, and declaratory relief.  On April 8, 2024, Levy filed an answer to  Terrell’s cross-complaint.  On March 11, 2024, Levy filed an  answer to the first amended complaint and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Terrell and Zoes 1-20 for comparative indemnity.  On March 25, 2024, Terrell filed an answer to  Levy’s cross-complaint.  On March 25, 2024, Intervenor  Technology Insurance Company, Inc. filed a Complaint in Intervention. On April  10, 2024, Terrell filed an answer to the complaint in intervention. On May 8,  2024, Levy filed an answer to the complaint in intervention.  On April 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  applications for pro hac vice admission of Jordan T. Dollar and Timothy E.  Dollar to be heard on May 21, 2024.  On  April 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a supporting declaration.  Trial is currently set for June 18,  2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiffs ask the Court to admit  Jordan T. Dollar and Timothy E. Dollar pro hac vice.  LEGAL STANDARD  “A person who is not a licensee of  the State Bar of California but who is an attorney in good standing of and  eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or the highest  court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the United States, and  who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of  this state, may in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written  application to appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an active licensee  of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of record. No person  is eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is:  “(1)   A resident of the State of California;  “(2)   Regularly employed in the State of California; or  “(3)   Regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other  activities in the State of California.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  “Absent special circumstances,  repeated appearances by any person under this rule is a cause for denial of an  application.” (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 9.40(b).)  “A person  desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with  the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in  accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the  application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who  have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at  its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time  prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has  prescribed a shorter period.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).)  “The application must state:  “(1)   The applicant's residence and office address;  “(2)   The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the  dates of admission;  “(3)   That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;  “(4)   That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;  “(5)   The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an  application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding  two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and  “(6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the  State Bar of California who is attorney of record.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)           The applicant  must also pay a fee to the State Bar.   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).)  DISCUSSION  The Court has reviewed the pro hac vice applications and finds that they comply with the requirements  of California Rules of Court, rule 9.40, with one exception.  The proofs of service attached to the  applications do not list Intervenor Technology Insurance Company, Inc., who was a party when  Plaintiffs filed these applications.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1) [“A  person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file  with the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in  accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the  application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who  have appeared in the cause . . . .”].)  The Court continues the hearing and  orders Plaintiffs to file proofs of service of the applications on Intervenor Technology Insurance Company before the next hearing  date.  CONCLUSION  87The Court CONTINUES the applications  for pro hac vice admission of Jordan T. Dollar and Timothy E. Dollar filed by Plaintiffs  Joshua Nassir and Omid Nassir to June 18, 2024, at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28  of the Spring Street Courthouse.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file proofs  of service of the applications on Intervenor Technology Insurance Company before  the continued hearing.  Moving parties are ordered to give  notice of this ruling.  Moving parties are ordered to file  the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.