 Case Number:  BC702305    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On April 11, 2018, Plaintiffs Ana Maribel Garcia
(“Garcia”) and Brian Osorto (“Osorto”) filed this action against Defendants
Jose Alberto Perez (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for vehicular negligence and
negligence per se. 
On October 11, 2019, the Court dismissed Plaintiffs’
complaint without prejudice.  On November
20, 2019, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion to vacate the dismissal. 
On October 14, 2020, the clerk entered Defendant’s
default. 
On March 17, 2022, the Court dismissed the Doe
defendants with prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On September 5, 2023, the
Court vacated the default entered on October 14, 2020. 
 On January 24,
2024, the clerk entered Defendant’s default. 
On March 20, 2024, the Court dismissed this action
with prejudice for failure to bring the case to trial within five years plus the six-month extension resulting from the COVID
pandemic. 
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for
Reconsideration Pursuant to the Mandatory Provisions of CCP 473b of Order Dismissing
Plaintiffs' Case With Prejudice and CCP 583.340. 
No trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUEST 
Plaintiffs ask the Court to reconsider or grant relief
from the dismissal of their complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARDS 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b),
provides in part: 
“ . . . Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the
time within which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section
583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section
583.340 provides: 
“In computing the time within which an action must be
brought to trial pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time
during which any of the following conditions existed: 
“(a) The jurisdiction of the court to try the action
was suspended. 
“(b) Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or
enjoined. 
“(c) Bringing the action to trial, for any other
reason, was impossible, impracticable, or futile. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 483.340.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs ask the Court to reconsider or grant relief
from its March 20, 2024 order dismissing the case for failure to bring it to
trial within five years plus the six-month extension resulting from the COVID
pandemic.  Plaintiffs argue
that Defendant has been in default since October 14, 2020, making it impossible
to bring the case to trial as the court had no jurisdiction over the
non-participating Defendant.  In
addition, Plaintiffs argue that they have been diligent in pursuing a default judgment
against Defendant since 2020 but the Court repeatedly denied Plaintiffs’
applications. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 483.340 does not
require that, in computing the time within which an action must be brought to
trial, the time during which the defendant was in default (here, October 14,
2020 to September 5, 2023 and again since January 24, 2024) must be excluded.  (See Hughes v. Kimble (1992) 5
Cal.App.4th 59, 68-70 [no general mandatory requirement to
exclude from the five-year statute all time in which a defendant is in default].)
Instead, “the time between entry of a default and entry of a default judgment
should be excluded from the five-year time to bring a case to trial if and only
if the court finds that the plaintiff used due diligence to obtain entry of the
judgment, and that in spite of such due diligence, it was impossible,
impracticable, or futile to obtain a judgment.” 
(Id. at p. 71.) 
Despite Plaintiffs’ argument that their inability to
obtain a default judgment resulted from the Court’s errors and not their own,
the Court finds (and a review of the Court’s minute orders confirms) that
Plaintiffs never submitted a default judgment packet suitable for Court
approval.  Entry of default judgment was
not “impossible, impractical, or futile” while Defendant was in default.  Therefore, the time during which Defendant
was in default is not excluded from the time within which Plaintiffs were
required to bring the action to trial. 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiffs Ana Maribel
Garcia and Brian Osorto to reconsider the order dismissing their case. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service
of this ruling with the Court within five days.