 Case Number:  21STCV16313    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 30, 2021, Plaintiff Pacis Goffney (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-3 for negligence. 
On
January 6, 2023, Defendant filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-25 for total indemnity, equitable indemnity on a
comparative fault basis, declaratory relief, and motor vehicle negligence. 
On
April 16, 2024, Defendant filed a “Motion to Compel In Pro Per Plaintiff Pacis
Goffney’s Deposition Pursuant to CCP § 2025.450 and Request for Monetary
Sanctions Against Plaintiff Pacis Goffney in the Amount of $1,150.00.”  On May 14, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of
non-opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 18, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff to appear for a deposition and impose
sanctions of $1,150.00 on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
February 23, 2024, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for March 4, 2024.
Plaintiff did not object to the deposition notice or contact Defendant about
the deposition. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff did not appear for the deposition.
The
Court grants the motion. 
Defendant
seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1),
which provides: “If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or
the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
Defendant
requests sanctions of $1,150.00 based on five hours of attorney’s time at a rate
of $230.00 per hour.  The motion is
unopposed.  The Court grants sanctions of
$460.00 based on two hours of attorney’s time. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to compel Plaintiff Pacis Goffney’s deposition filed by
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.  The Court orders Plaintiff Pacis Goffney to
appear for a deposition within 30 days of the hearing on the motion.  Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Authority is to make all arrangements necessary for the deposition to take
place by this deadline. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s request for sanctions and orders Plaintiff Pacis Goffney to pay
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority $460.00 within 30 days of
the hearing on the motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.