  Case Number:  23TRCV02272    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Thursday, May 16, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 5  



 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Aracely
Herrera v. Loyola Marymount University, et al. 

23TRCV02272
1.      Loyola Marymount University’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.     
Loyola Marymount
University’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Loyola Marymount University’s Demurrer to Complaint is
overruled, in part, and sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part. 
 
Loyola Marymount University’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Complaint is denied, in part, granted with 20 days leave to amend,
in part, and moot, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on July 14, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff suffered injuries while residing
in a dormitory at Loyola Marymount University (“LMU”) following a water leak. Defendant
failed to make necessary repairs to the dormitory and ignored Plaintiff’s
requests for mold testing or a housing transfer. Plaintiff was also employed at
LMU as a student worker. Defendant engaged in employment discrimination by
failing to provide her reasonable accommodations for her disability and by taking
adverse actions against her based on her disability. LMU also reduced
Plaintiff’s potential student worker earnings via penalties yet continued to
report the deductions as earned wages for tax purposes. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1) Negligence 2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress 3) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability 4) Breach of Covenant Quiet
Enjoyment 5) Tenant Harassment 6) Nuisance 7) Premises Liability 8) Negligent Misrepresentation
9) Intentional Misrepresentation 10) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, & Retention
11) Employment Discrimination 12) Unlawful Business Practices. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Decls. Alice Charkhchyan.) 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendant demurs to the second, sixth,
tenth, and twelfth causes of action on the grounds that the causes of action
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and that the
causes of action are uncertain. 
            Second Cause of Action for IIED
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the second
cause of action is overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
 
“A cause of action for IIED requires proof of: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007. 
 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for
breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from
suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if the
landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id.
 
Plaintiff has set forth facts to support the elements
of extreme and outrageous conduct, intent or reckless disregard, and proximate
causation. Plaintiff alleges that she discovered a problem with the property, specifically
the water leak and the subsequent mold, and that Defendant failed to remedy the
issues. Plaintiff also set forth numerous health issues that she suffered.  
 
Plaintiff has specifically alleged that Defendant
abused its position of power, that Defendant knew that Plaintiff was
susceptible to injuries through emotional distress, and that Defendant acted
intentionally or unreasonably knowing that it would likely cause emotional
distress. Importantly, Plaintiff has alleged specific facts that Defendant had knowledge
of the Plaintiff’s susceptibility to emotional distress and that it acted
unreasonably knowing that emotional distress would occur from Defendant’s actions.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 13, 21, 29, 37.)  Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendant was given specific notice of Plaintiff’s health
issues that stemmed from the leak/mold and that Defendant refused Plaintiff’s
requests for mold testing or a transfer to different accommodations. (Id.) Plaintiff
has also alleged that she suffered severe emotional distress. (Complaint, ¶¶ 82-85.)
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of action
is overruled. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Nuisance

The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled.
Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a cause of action and the cause of
action is not uncertain.
 
“Civil Code section 3479 defines a nuisance as
‘[a]nything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.’” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919.    
 
“The elements of an action for private nuisance are:
First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of
his property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and
enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the
plaintiff to suffer ‘substantial actual damage. Third, [t]he interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute
unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,
LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63 (internal citations and quotations
omitted). 
 
“[I]n determining whether a particular activity constitutes a public nuisance,
a court considers three elements: (1) the proscribed act,
(2) whether the result of the act interferes with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property,
and (3) whether
the act affects a sufficient number of persons.”
People v. McDonald (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 521, 535.
 
“A private nuisance cause of action requires the
plaintiff to prove an injury specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of
his or her land.  Pursuant to Civil Code
section 3501, a plaintiff seeking to remedy a private nuisance is
limited to a civil action or abatement. Unlike public nuisance,
which is an interference with the rights of the community at large, private
nuisance is a civil wrong based on disturbance of rights in land.... [T]o
proceed on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove an injury
specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land. The injury,
however, need not be different in kind from that suffered by the general
public.” Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 248, 262 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state
a cause of action based on private nuisance. Plaintiff has alleged facts that
Defendant interfered with Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the property by
failing to promptly remedy the water leak issue and subsequent mold.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 115-121.)  Contrary to the
arguments made in the demurrer, there is nothing to indicate that Plaintiff is
alleging a theory based on public nuisance.
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
overruled.
 
Tenth Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to state
a cause of action.
 
As to the tenth cause of action, the Court recognizes
the following authority. “An employer may be liable to a third person for the
employer's negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or
unfit. Liability for negligent hiring ... is based upon the reasoning that if
an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger
to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by
the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees. Negligence liability will
be imposed on an employer if it knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes. California follows the rule set forth in the Restatement Second
of Agency section 213, which provides in pertinent part: ‘A person conducting
an activity through servants or other agents is subject to liability for harm
resulting from his conduct if he is negligent or reckless: ... [¶] (b) in the
employment of improper persons or instrumentalities in work involving risk of
harm to others[.]’ Liability for negligent ... retention of an employee is one
of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.” Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133. 1139 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
“One who employs another to act for him is not liable
... merely because the one employed is incompetent, vicious, or careless. If
liability results it is because, under the circumstances, the employer has not
taken the care which a prudent man would take in selecting the person for the
business in hand.... [¶] Liability results ... not because of the relation of
the parties but because the employer antecedently had reason to believe that an
undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment.” Federico v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1210,
1213-14. 
 
“[A]n employer can be liable to a third person for
negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation.]
Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or should have known
that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that
particular harm materializes. To establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff
must show that a person in a supervisorial position over the actor had prior
knowledge of the actor's propensity to do the bad act.” Alexander v.
Community Hospital of Long Beach (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 238, 264 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to demonstrate
that Defendants had any advance knowledge of the unfitness of any of its
employees. Plaintiff alleges no facts to support the  conclusion that Defendant had reason to
believe that an unreasonable risk of harm existed in the hiring of any of its
employees. In addition, there are no facts that Defendant negligently trained
any of its employees. Only conclusions are set forth. 
 
The Court does note, however, that Defendant’s
argument that this cause of action must be duplicative of the first cause of
action is incorrect. As noted above, pursuant to the authorities cited, this
can be a distinct and separate cause of action if the proper factual
allegations are alleged. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the tenth cause of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 

 
Twelfth Cause of Action for Unlawful Business
Practices - Violations of Cal. Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the twelfth cause of action is
overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a cause of action and the
cause of action is not uncertain.  
 
“California Business and Professions Code Sections
17000, et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall
mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.” Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618–19. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable. [Citation.] However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is
not prohibited by another statute.” Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v.
Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 835. “The unfair competition
law is independent of the Unfair Practices Act and other laws. Its remedies are
“cumulative ... to the remedies or penalties available under all other laws of
this state” (§ 17205), but its sanctions are less severe than those of the
Unfair Practices Act. Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive
relief and restitution. (§ 17203; see ABC Internat. Traders, Inc. v.
Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1247, 1268 [61 Cal.Rptr.2d
112, 931 P.2d 290].) Plaintiffs may not receive damages, much less treble damages,
or attorney fees.” Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular
Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179.
 
“Restitution under section 17203 is confined to
restoration of any interest in “money or property, real or personal, which may
have been acquired by means of such unfair competition.” (Italics
added.) A restitution order against a defendant thus requires both that money
or property have been lost by a plaintiff, on the one hand, and that it have
been acquired by a defendant, on the other. But the economic injury that an
unfair business practice occasions may often involve a loss by the plaintiff
without any corresponding gain by the defendant, such as, for example, a
diminishment in the value of some asset a plaintiff possesses. Such injuries
satisfy the plain meaning of section 17204's “lost money or property”
requirement, qualify as injury in fact, and would permit a plaintiff to seek an
injunction against the offending business practice even in the absence of any
basis for restitution. [¶] This leads to a larger point: To make standing under
section 17204 dependent on eligibility for restitution under section 17203
would turn the remedial scheme of the UCL on its head. Injunctions are “the
primary form of relief available under the UCL to protect consumers from unfair
business practices,” while restitution is a type of “ancillary relief.” Kwikset
Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 336–337 (internal citations
omitted).
 
Based on the underlying allegations in support of the
third through fifth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action (to which Defendant
did not demur), Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts and pled viable causes
of action that would demonstrate unlawful, unfair, and/or fraudulent business
practices on the part of demurring Defendant. Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts of injury in fact by alleging that she incurred costs, expenses, and lost
income, and that her potential earnings were penalized. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the twelfth cause of action is
overruled. 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
Defendant moves to strike certain
allegations and the prayer for punitive damages. Specifically, Defendant moves
to strike the following: 1. Paragraph 57; 2. Paragraph 81; 3. Paragraph 85; 4.
Paragraph 121; 5. Paragraph 134; 6. Paragraph 141; 7. Paragraph 158; 8. Page
33, paragraph 3.
 
As to Items 1, 3, 4, and 8, the motion is
denied. Plaintiff has alleged sufficient specific facts under these causes of
action that Defendant acted with malice and/or fraud to support the allegations
and prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff has also alleged facts that the acts
were committed by an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant, or was
authorized or ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent. (Complaint,
¶¶ 7–9, 13–14, 16, 17, 30–31, 34, 40, 51.) 
 
As to Items 2, 5, and 6, the motion is
granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff has failed to allege specific
facts to support the allegations of punitive damages under these
negligence-based causes of action.
 
As to Item 7, the motion is moot upon the
sustaining of the demurrer to the tenth cause of action.
 
 Therefore,
the motion to strike is denied, in part, is granted, with 20 days leave to
amend, in part, and is moot in part. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.