  Case Number:  18STCV09180    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




allison cervantes

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
ocean avenue llc d/b/a
   fairmont miramar hotels

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV09180




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for new trial
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Allison Cervantes     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Ocean Avenue LLC
Motion for New Trial
The court considered
the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Allison Cervantes, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 2 is overruled. 
Objection No. 3 is sustained. 
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Stephen O’Kane, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 4 is overruled. 
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Gloria Axume, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objections Nos. 4 and 7-8 are overruled. 
Objection No. 5 is sustained as to the statement “expressed to other
jurors and myself that our viewpoints would not be considered, because Ms.
Cervantes did not deserve any money[.]” 
(Evid. Code, § 1150, subd. (a).) 
Objection No. 5 is overruled as to the other statements made in
paragraph 5.  
Objection No. 6 is sustained as to the statement “When I expressed I
believed Ms. Cervantes, Juror 6 stopped me and said, ‘Oh yes, girl, when you
have 23 million dollars in front of you, for sure you’re going to lie.’”  (Evid. Code, § 1150, subd. (a).)  Objection No. 6 is overruled as to the other
statements made in paragraph 6. 
Objection No. 9 is sustained as to the statement “Juror 9 explained to
the jury, including me, that Ms. Cervantes was not harassed at work and was
responding ‘No’ to Question No. 1 on the special verdict form because Ms.
Cervantes did not report the harassment to her parents, which was not in
evidence nor the standard called for in the jury instructions provided to
us.”  (Evid. Code, § 1150, subd.
(a).)  Objection No. 9 is overruled as to
the other statements made in paragraph 9.
Objection No. 10 is sustained as to the statement “Based on this
comment, Juror 7 expressed that he was responding ‘No’ to Question No. 1 on the
special verdict form.”  (Evid. Code,
§ 1150, subd. (a).)  Objection No.
10 is overruled as to the other statements made in paragraph 10.
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Gregory Rzyan, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 2 is overruled. 
Objection No. 3 is sustained.
 
 
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Griselda Rodriguez, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 2 is overruled. 
Objection No. 3 is sustained.
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Raul Aguilar, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 2 is overruled. 
Objection No. 3 is sustained.
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Bryan Kirsh, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objections Nos. 3-4 are overruled. 
Objections Nos. 5-6 are sustained. 
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Carney Shegerian, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 2 is overruled. 
Objection No. 3 is sustained.
The court rules on defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Celeste Semmere, filed on March 6, 2024, as
follows:
Objection No. 2 is overruled. 
Objection No. 3 is sustained.
            The court rules on plaintiff Allison
Cervantes’s evidentiary objections, filed on March 21, 2024, as follows:
            Objections Nos. 1-11 are overruled. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Allison Cervantes (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
setting aside the jury’s verdict rendered in this action on January 22, 2024,
and granting a new trial against defendant Ocean Avenue LLC (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff asserts that a new trial is required
due to    (1) an irregularity in the
proceedings of the court after the court excluded evidence of sexually charged
comments published by D’Jon Mornay (“Mornay”) on social media, and (2) juror
misconduct.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 657, subds. (1), (2), (7).) 
1.     Irregularity
in the Proceedings of the Court (Code Civ. Proc., § 657, subds. (1), (7)
“A new trial may be granted where there is an ‘[i]rregularity in the
proceedings.’  ([Code Civ. Proc.]
§ 657, subd. (1).)  An ‘irregularity
in the proceedings’ is a catchall phrase referring to any act that (1) violates
the right of a party to a fair trial and (2) which a party ‘cannot fully
present by exceptions taken during the process of the trial, and which must
therefore appear by affidavits.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Montoya v.
Barragan (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1229-1230.)  A new trial may also be granted based on an
“[e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 657, subd. (7).) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that the
court erred as a matter of law and denied to Plaintiff her right to a fair
trial by (1) finding that Mornay’s social media posts were not relevant and
exercising its discretion to exclude such evidence because its probative value
was substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission would
necessitate undue consumption of time and create a substantial danger of undue
prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury, pursuant to
Evidence Code section 352, and (2) precluding Plaintiff from introducing
Mornay’s Instagram posts at trial as prejudicial by sustaining Defendant’s
objection thereto under Evidence Code section 352.  (Pl. Appendix of Evid., Ex. 17, Dec. 6, 2023
Order, p. 7:8-15; Pl. Appendix of Evid., Ex. 4, p. 106:26-27; In re Marriage
of Carlsson (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 281, 294 [“[b]y arbitrarily cutting off
the presentation of evidence,” the judge rendered the trial fundamentally
unfair, requiring reversal of trial].)  
Although the court notes that Plaintiff has cited cases in which
federal courts have determined evidence of other acts of harassment “to be
extremely probative” or relevant to discriminatory discharge claims, the court
(1) is not bound by those decisions, and (2) finds that Plaintiff has not shown
that, under such authority, the court abused its discretion by excluding from
evidence the social media posts that Plaintiff sought to introduce under
Evidence Code section 352.  (Hurley v.
Atlantic City Police Dept. (3rd Cir. 1999) 174 F.3d 95, 110-111 [“Evidence
of other acts of harassment is extremely probative as to whether the harassment
was sexually discriminatory and whether the ACPD knew or should have known that
sexual harassment was occurring”]; Heyne v. Caruso (9th Cir. 1995) 69
F.3d 1475, 1480 [“evidence of an employer’s sexual harassment of female
employees other than the plaintiff and evidence of the employer’s disparaging
remarks about women in general were relevant to a discriminatory discharge
claim”]; Evid. Code, § 352 [court may exclude evidence “in its discretion”
if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will necessitate undue consumption of time or create substantial
danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury]
[emphasis added].) 
            Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff
has not established that there was an irregularity in the court proceedings or
an error of law that occurred at trial that warrants granting a new trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657, subds. (1),
(7).) 
2.     Misconduct
of the Jury (Code Civ. Proc., § 657, subd. (2)
“‘A verdict may be vacated, in whole or in part, on a motion for a new
trial because of juror misconduct that materially affected the substantial
rights of a party.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 657, subd. (2).)  A party moving
for a new trial on the ground of juror misconduct must establish both that
misconduct occurred and that the misconduct was prejudicial.’  [Citation.]” 
(Stokes v. Muschinske (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 45, 52.)  “[A] court generally undertakes a three-step
inquiry in ruling on a new trial motion based on juror misconduct.  First, the court determines whether
affidavits supporting the motion are admissible.  Second, the court determines whether the
facts establish misconduct.  Third, the
court determines whether any misconduct resulted in prejudice.”  (Ibid.) 
a.     
Admissibility of Declarations
“Upon an inquiry as to the validity of a verdict, any otherwise
admissible evidence may be received as to statements made, or conduct,
conditions, or events occurring, either within or without the jury room, of
such a character as is likely to have influenced the verdict improperly.  No evidence is admissible to show the effect
of such statement, conduct, condition, or event upon a juror either in
influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict or concerning the
mental processes by which it was determined.” 
(Evid. Code, § 1150, subd. (a).)  “‘ “This statute distinguishes ‘between proof
of overt acts, objectively ascertainable, and proof of the subjective reasoning
processes of the individual juror, which can be neither corroborated nor
disproved.’ ” ’  [Citation.]  Juror’s statements ‘ “must be admitted with
caution,” because “[s]tatements have a greater tendency than nonverbal acts to
implicate the reasoning processes of jurors.” 
[Citation.]  But statements made
by jurors during deliberations are admissible under Evidence Code section 1150
when “the very making of the statement sought to be admitted would itself
constitute misconduct.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (People v. Flores
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 100, 108.) 
The court finds that the jurors’ statements set forth in the
declarations of Gloria Axume (“Axume”) and Stephen O’Kane (“O’Kane”), except as
to the statements to which objections have been sustained above, are
admissible.  Although Axume and O’Kane
have asserted that certain jurors made statements about having “made up [their]
mind[s]” and other similar comments, the court finds that those are admissible
as statements of bias (and therefore not hearsay), are “of such a character as
is likely to have influenced the verdict improperly[,]” and do not concern the
mental processes of those jurors (and therefore are not made inadmissible under
Evidence Code section 1150).  (Axume
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; O’Kane Decl., ¶ 4; Evid. Code, § 1150, subd. (a); Flores,
supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at p. 108; Grobeson v. City of Los Angeles (2010)
190 Cal.App.4th 778, 790 [finding that juror’s statement “‘I made up my mind
during trial’ was a ‘statement of bias’”], 793 [the comments, because they
“were circumstantial evidence of her bias[,]” were “not hearsay”].) 
The court did not consider the “Declaration of Gloria Axume” submitted
in support of Plaintiff’s reply papers. 
(Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1537 [“The general rule
of motion practice . . . is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers”].) 
b.    
Juror Misconduct
“[A] statement of bias is misconduct because bias is misconduct.”  (Grobeson, supra, 190
Cal.App.4th at p. 788; People v. Allen and Johnson (2011) 53 Cal.4th 60,
70 (“Allen”) [“For a juror to decide a case before it is submitted is
misconduct”].)  Moreover, “[j]urors are
not permitted to inject extraneous evidence, standards of care, or defense
theories into deliberations.”  (Nodal
v. CalWest Rain, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 607, 611.)  “Juror bias does not require that a juror
bear animosity towards the defendant [or other party].  Rather, juror bias exists if there is a
substantial likelihood that a juror’s verdict was based on an improper outside
influence, rather than on the evidence and instructions presented at trial, and
the nature of the influence was detrimental to the [party].”  (People v. Cissna (2010) 182
Cal.App.4th 1105, 1116.) 
Plaintiff has submitted the declarations of jurors Axume and O’Kane to
establish juror misconduct.  
First, Axume and O’Kane state that juror number five, Natalie Berggren
(“Berggren”), repeatedly stated “that she already made up her mind, knew what
side she was on, that it was obvious, suggested it was for the Defendant, and
repeatedly tried to get us to tell her what side [the other jurors] were
on.”  (Axume Decl., ¶ 4; O’Kane
Decl., ¶ 4.)  In support of its
opposition, Defendant has submitted the declaration of Berggren, in which she
denies that she made those statements. 
(Berggren Decl., ¶ 4 [“I never told anybody, at lunch or otherwise,
that I already made up my mind about the case prior to deliberations or that I
knew what side I was on prior to deliberations. 
I did not speak about the case with other jurors outside of
deliberations and I did not ask other jurors what ‘side’ they were on outside
of deliberations”].)  The court finds
Berggren’s declaration to be credible, and finds that Axume and O’Kane’s
statements, on this point, are not credible. 
(Toste v. CalPortland Construction (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 362,
372 [“‘[I]t is the trial court that must assess the credibility of affiants or
declarants, and the trial court is entitled to believe one over the other.  [Citations.]’”].)  Thus, the court finds that this evidence does
not establish juror misconduct. 
Second, Axume states that, during the deliberation process, Lindsey
Bogris (“Bogris”) (juror number three), Berggren, Xian Chapman (“Chapman”)
(juror number six), and Heather Ballard (“Ballard”) (juror number 10)
“expressed a fixed conclusion at the beginning of deliberations, expressed to
other jurors and [Axume] that [the jurors] should not deliberate,” interrupted
jurors when they attempted to speak, expressed several times that they did not
want to find in favor of Plaintiff on any of her claims regardless of the
evidence presented, and stated that they did not care about the evidence.  (Axume Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  Berggren and Chapman have refuted this
evidence in their declarations, each stating that she did not “express a ‘fixed
conclusion[,]’” state that she wanted to find against Plaintiff regardless of
the evidence, or otherwise state or indicate that she would not consider the
evidence presented.  (Berggren Decl., ¶¶ 4,
6; Chapman Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  The
court finds Berggren and Chapman’s declarations are credible and show that they
did not establish a fixed conclusion (i.e., pre-judged the case) prior to
deliberations.  The court further finds,
in light of Berggren and Chapman’s statements and based on the wording of the
allegations in Axume’s declaration, that Axume’s testimony regarding Bogris,
Berggren, Chapman, and Ballard are not credible.  Thus, the court finds that this evidence does
not establish juror misconduct. 
Third, Axume states that, during the deliberation process, “it was
very difficult to express [her] opinions[,]” and that Bogris, Berggren,
Chapman, and Ballard often interrupted her or other jurors.  (Axume Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.)  Berggren has refuted this in her declaration,
stating that, based on her observations, “all jurors participated in
deliberations, and none were prohibited or discouraged from speaking.”  (Berggren Decl., ¶ 5.)  The court finds Berggren to be a credible
witness as to this point, and finds, based on Berggren’s statement and the
wording of the allegations in Axume’s declaration, that Axume’s testimony is
not credible on this point.  Thus, the
court finds that this evidence does not establish juror misconduct based on a
refusal of certain jurors to deliberate. 
(People v. Cleveland (2001) 25 Cal.4th 466, 485 [“A refusal to
deliberate consists of a juror’s unwillingness to engage in the deliberative
process” but “[t]he circumstance that a juror does not deliberate well or
relies upon faulty logic or analysis does not constitute a refusal to
deliberate”].) 
Fourth, Axume states that Michael Mendoza (“Mendoza”), juror one, did
not speak much, and when he attempted to show evidence from one of the
exhibits, Bogris, Berggren, and Ballard “said ‘No.’”  (Axume Decl., ¶ 8.)  To the extent that Plaintiff contends this
shows that those jurors interrupted Mendoza, the court finds that such an
assertion has been rebutted, as set forth above, by Berggren’s testimony that
all jurors participated in deliberations and that no juror was prohibited or
discouraged from speaking.  (Berggren
Decl., ¶ 5; Cleveland, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
485.) 
Fifth, Axume states that, during deliberations, Kelvin Lawson
(“Lawson”), juror number nine, “interjected with comments about his personal
experience with family members being harassed at work by an employer and that
if his daughter or wife were harassed at work, they would tell [Lawson] right
away.”  (Axume Decl., ¶ 9.)  Defendant did not submit a declaration from
Lawson refuting that he made this comment. 
However, the court finds that this evidence does not establish
misconduct based on bias or disregard of the court’s instructions.  Instead, it appears that Lawson “appli[ed] .
. . his life experience,” in this context, in order to evaluate Plaintiff’s
credibility.  (Allen, supra,
53 Cal.4th at p. 78 [juror’s “positive opinion about the reliability of
Hispanics in the workplace did not involve specialized information from an
outside source.  It was an application of
his life experience, in the specific context of timecards and the workplace,
that led him to conclude [the party] was not telling the truth about the
shootings”].)  Thus, the court finds that
this evidence is insufficient to establish juror misconduct. 
Sixth, Axume states that Lawson “further expressed, during the break
and immediately in the deliberations that he needed to finish the case because
he had a flight scheduled for the next day, in the afternoon, and he needed to
get the case done.”  (Axume Decl.,
¶ 9.)  Defendant did not submit
evidence (e.g., Lawson’s declaration) to refute that he made such a
statement.  
Plaintiff
contends that this statement shows that Lawson “expressed a desire not to
engage in deliberations[.]”  (Mot., p.
13:12.)  The court disagrees.  Instead, it shows only that Lawson was hoping
that the trial would be finished and does not suggest that he did not want to,
or did not, engage in deliberations.  (People v. Henderson (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 530, 553, 562-563
[juror’s statement that he was “‘looking forward to it being over’”
reflected that the juror “was looking forward to his jury duty being
over, a sentiment that does not strike [the court] as unusual for jurors in a
lengthy trial,” and “did not signal that the juror could not perform his duty
or was biased”] [emphasis in original].) 
Axume did not, for example, state that Lawson refused to deliberate in
order to ensure that the case was decided so that he could leave, or that he
committed any other conduct establishing that he chose not to deliberate with
the other jurors.  (Axume Decl.,
¶ 9.)  Thus, the court finds that
Lawson’s statement that “he needed to finish the case because he had a flight
scheduled for the next day” does not establish that Lawson refused to
deliberate and therefore does not establish juror misconduct.  (Henderson, supra, 78
Cal.App.5th at pp. 562-563.)
Seventh, Axume states that Mark Cuglietta (“Cuglietta”), juror number
seven, “appeared to have been consuming alcoholic beverages immediately prior
to deliberations based on his tone, manner of speech, demeanor, and
smell.”  (Axume Decl., ¶ 10.)  Defendant has submitted Cuglietta’s
declaration, in which Cuglietta states that (1) he “did not consume alcoholic
beverages during trial hours, nor did [he] consume alcoholic beverages on any
of [their] lunch or afternoon breaks” or “immediately prior to deliberations,”
and (2) he “was not intoxicated during deliberations.”  (Cuglietta Decl., ¶ 3.)  The court finds that Cuglietta’s testimony is credible
and that Axume’s declaration is not credible on that issue.  The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
not shown that Cuglietta engaged in juror misconduct since she has not
submitted credible evidence showing that Cuglietta was intoxicated during
deliberations.[1]
Finally, Axume states that, during deliberations, Cuglietta “explained
to the jury, including [Axume], that [Plaintiff] was not harassed at work
because he tells his male employees at work that they should not be staring at
women for more than 4 minutes[.]”  (Axume
Decl., ¶ 10.)  Cuglietta did not
deny, in his declaration, that he made this statement to the jurors during
deliberations.  Plaintiff contends that
this statement establishes juror misconduct because it shows (1) that Cuglietta
relied on his personal experiences, rather than the evidence presented at trial
and the instructions of the court, in rendering his verdict, and (2) bias and
partiality on the part of Cuglietta.  The
court agrees. 
As a threshold matter, the court finds it significant that (1)
Defendant submitted a declaration from Cuglietta in support of its opposition,
and (2) Cuglietta, although having the opportunity to deny that he made such a
statement, did not do so.  (Cuglietta
Decl., ¶¶ 1-4.)  Moreover, the court
finds Axume’s testimony on this point to be credible.  Thus, the court has determined that Cuglietta
did make the statement that he believed that Plaintiff was not harassed because
“he tells his male employees at work that they should not be staring at women
for more than 4 minutes[.]”  (Axume
Decl., ¶ 10.)  Defendant has not
argued that this statement does not show misconduct, instead arguing that
Axume’s declaration is inadmissible. 
(Opp., p. 17:6-18.)
            As set forth above, jurors are not
permitted to inject their own standards of care or theories into
deliberations.  (Nodal, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at p. 611; Smith v. Covell (1980) 100 Cal.App.3d 947, 952
[juror informing other jurors about his back pain in personal injury case was
impermissible and constituted misconduct].)  Moreover, the court instructed the jury members
that they shall not make any statements or provide any information to other
jurors based on unique personal experiences they may have had, and further
instructed that what the jurors “may know or have learned through [their]
training or experience is not a part of the evidence received in this
case.”  (Pl. Appendix of Evid., Ex. 5,
Reporter’s Transcript, p. 38:25-39:4.)  
Here, because Plaintiff has submitted evidence establishing that
Cuglietta stated that Plaintiff was not harassed because he has told his male
employees not to stare at a woman for more than four minutes, the court finds
that Plaintiff has shown that (1) Cuglietta was improperly relying on and
informing the other jurors about external information regarding what
constitutes harassment, and therefore likely disregarded the court’s
instructions in evaluating the evidence, (2) Cuglietta was biased in his view regarding
what constitutes harassment, and (3) it is likely that Cuglietta prejudged this
case based on his belief that harassment cannot occur if a woman has not been
stared at for more than four minutes. 
(Axume Decl., ¶ 10; People v. Nesler (1997) 16 Cal.4th 561,  587 [juror’s interjection of extraneous
evidence suggested that she was unable to put aside the information she
acquired outside of court, “thus indicating a substantial likelihood of actual
bias on her part”]; Smith, supra, 100 Cal.App.3d at p. 935
[disclosing outside information based on personal experiences “may be cited
both as evidence of a concealed bias and an objective fact likely to have
improperly influenced the jury’s verdict”].) 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has shown that Cuglietta
engaged in juror misconduct. 
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) the
statements made in Axume and O’Kane’s declarations regarding jurors Bogris,
Berggren, Chapman, Lawson, and Ballard (juror numbers 3, 5, 6, 9, and 10,
respectively) do not establish juror misconduct, but      (2) the statement made by Cuglietta (juror
number 7) that Plaintiff “was not harassed at work because [Cuglietta] tells
his male employees at work that they should not be staring at women for more
than 4 minutes” establishes juror misconduct. 
(Axume Decl., ¶ 10.)  
c.     
Prejudice
“Jury misconduct ‘ “creates a presumption of prejudice that may be
rebutted by a showing that no prejudice actually occurred.” ’  [Citations.] 
The presumption can be rebutted ‘by an affirmative evidentiary showing
that prejudice does not exist or by a reviewing court’s examination of the
entire record to determine whether there is a reasonable probability of actual
harm resulting from the misconduct.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Flores, supra,
70 Cal.App.5th at p. 112.) 
As set forth above, the court has found that Plaintiff has shown the
existence of juror misconduct.  Thus,
there is a presumption that Plaintiff was prejudiced.  (Flores, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th
at p. 112.)  In its opposition, Defendant
has not made an affirmative evidentiary showing that prejudice does not exist,
and did not argue that, in reviewing the entire record, the court should find
that there is no reasonable probability of prejudice.  (Opp., p. 17:19-26 [arguing only that
Plaintiff cannot establish misconduct].) 
The court therefore finds that Defendant did not meet its burden to
rebut the presumption of prejudice. 
Moreover, the court also notes that the jury found against Plaintiff
on her sexual harassment, discrimination, and retaliation claims by a
nine-to-three vote.  (Pl. Appendix of
Evidence, Ex. 6, Jan. 22, 2024 Reporter’s Transcript, pp. 66:5-69:10.)  Thus, Cuglietta’s bias and prejudgment of the
case was prejudicial to Plaintiff.  (Grobeson,
supra, 190 Cal.App.4th at p. 792 [stating that “the trial court found
that the loss of one biased juror on votes of 9 to 3 actually prejudiced” the
plaintiff and therefore finding that the defendant’s argument that the
“statements were of no moment [was] therefore mistaken”].) 
 
 
3.     Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff has
met her burden to show the existence of juror misconduct that resulted in
prejudice.  The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657, subd. (2).) 
ORDER
The court grants plaintiff Allison Cervantes’s motion for new trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657, subd. (2).) 
            The court orders that the Judgment
by Court, filed on January 23, 2024, is vacated. 
            The court sets a Trial Setting
Conference on the new trial for hearing on June 21, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 53.  The court orders counsel
for the parties to meet and confer, no later than nine court days before the
Trial Setting Conference, to discuss and try to reach agreement on any issues
concerning the new trial granted by this order. 
The court orders that each party may file and serve, no later than five
court days before the Trial Setting Conference, a Trial Setting Conference
brief (not to exceed three pages in length) which addresses the status of this
case and any issues they wish to discuss at the Trial Setting Conference.
The court orders plaintiff Allison Cervantes to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


