  Case Number:  22STCV23799    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



STACEY CARR-SUSOR, an individual; CHI
  CHO, an individual; DEANNA TURNER, an individual; and JEAN MEJIA, an
  individual
                           
         vs.
 
BARRINGTON PACIFIC, LLC, a California
  limited liability company, and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive
                                           


 Case No.: 
  22STCV23799
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: April 12, 2024



 
            Defendant
Barrington Pacific, LLC’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Plaintiffs
Deanna Turner, Jean Mejia, and Chi Cho’s motion for summary adjudication on
their first cause of action for violations of the Investigative Consumer
Reporting Agencies Act in the Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            On
July 22, 2022, Plaintiffs Stacey Carr-Susor, Chi Cho, Deanna Turner, and Jean
Mejia filed suit against Barrington Pacific, LLC (“Barrington Pacific”), and
Does 1 through 30, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) violations of
the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (the “ICRAA”), and (2)
violation of the unfair competition law (Bus. & Prof. Code Section 17200)
(the “UCL”).
 
            On
January 4, 2024, Barrington Pacific filed the instant motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
 
            On
January 5, 2024, Plaintiffs Deanna Turner, Jean Mejia, and Chi Cho
(collectively, “Moving Plaintiffs” or “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant motion
for summary adjudication of their first cause of action for violation of the
ICRAA. 
 
            On
January 19, 2024, the Court granted the plaintiffs’ ex parte application to
advance the motion for summary adjudication to the same date as the hearing on
Barrington Pacific’s motion on April 4, 2024. 
 
            On
March 21, 2024, Barrington Pacific filed its opposition to the Moving
Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication. 
 
            On
March 21, 2024, the Moving Plaintiffs filed their opposition to Barrington
Pacific’s motion. 
 
            On
March 29, 2024, Barrington Pacific filed its reply in support of its motion. 
 
            A
non-jury trial is set for November 4, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c
(“Section 437c”) subdivision (a) provides that a “party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no
merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” The motion
shall be granted if there is no triable issue as to any material fact, and the
moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c).) Under subdivision (p)(1) of Section 437c, once the plaintiff
has met her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action by
proving each element of the cause of action, the burden shifts to the defendant
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto. On the other hand, where a
defendant presents evidence showing one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established, then the burden shifts to plaintiff to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
 
A party can also move for
summary adjudication of a particular issue, which can be granted “only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
 
The moving party’s burden
on summary judgment “is more properly one of persuasion rather
than proof, since he must persuade the court that
there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not
to prove any such fact to the satisfaction of the court itself
as though it were sitting as the trier of fact.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 fn.11, original italics.) 
 
Factual Background
The Complaint alleges the following. 
Between 2018 and 2021, and within the
applicable statute of limitations, the plaintiffs applied for housing at Barrington
Plaza, located at 11740 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles, California 90025
(“Barrington Plaza”), and Pacific Plaza, located at 1431 Ocean Ave, Santa
Monica, California 90401 (“Pacific Plaza”). (Compl., ¶¶ 3, 14.) 
The plaintiffs’ housing application and
authorization form included a release permitting the defendants to obtain
private, and personal information from third parties about each of the
Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶ 15.) The defendants used the release signed by the
plaintiffs to obtain investigative consumer reports about the plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶ 16.)
Section 1786.16(b) of the ICRAA states that any
person requesting an “investigative consumer report” is required to “[p]rovide
the consumer a means by which the consumer may indicate on a written form, by
means of a box to check, that the consumer wishes to receive a copy of any
report that is prepared.”
(Compl., ¶ 20.)
Here, in violation of the ICRAA, the release that the plaintiffs were
required to sign did not give
them a means (i.e., the check box) to indicate whether they wanted to obtain a copy of any report the
defendants received for their application. (Compl., ¶¶ 16, 21.) 
In addition, Section
1786.16(a)(3) of the ICRAA states: “If an investigative consumer report is sought
. . . the person procuring or causing the request to be made shall, not later
than three days after the date on which the report was first requested, notify
the consumer in writing that an investigative consumer report will be made
regarding the consumer’s character, general reputation, personal
characteristics, and mode of living.” (Compl.,
¶ 22.)
            Here, in
violation of the ICRAA, the defendants never told Plaintiffs that investigative
consumer reports would be prepared regarding their character, general
reputation, personal characteristics, and mode of living. (Compl., ¶ 16.)
            The
defendants’ violations of the ICRAA constituted unlawful and unfair business
practices within the meaning of the UCL. (Compl., ¶ 32.)
Requests
for Judicial Notice 
 
            On January 4, 2024, Barrington
Pacific filed a request for judicial notice of the Complaint (Exhibit F in the
defendant’s compendium of evidence filed on January 4, 2024, in support of its
motion (“Jan 4 COE”).) 
 
            On January 5, 2024, the Moving
Plaintiffs filed a request for judicial notice of the Court of Appeal case Bernuy
v. Bridge Property Management Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1174 (“Bernuy”)
(Exhibit 1 in the request for judicial notice). 
 
            On March 21, 2024, Barrington
Pacific filed a request for judicial notice of the following.
 
1.     
Plaintiffs’
Complaint (Exhibit E to defendant’s compendium of evidence on March 21, 2024,
in support of its opposition to the Moving Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication (“March 21 COE”)).
2.     
Defendant’s
Answer, including the affirmative defenses (Exhibit H of March 21 COE). 
3.     
Defendant’s
Request for an Informal Discovery Conference (Exhibit L of the March 21 COE).
4.     
The
following Exhibits are attached to this Request for Judicial Notice:
a)     
A
copy of Barrington Pacific’s instant motion for summary judgment or
adjudication (Exhibit 1 of the request for judicial notice) 
b)    
A
copy of Barrington Pacific’s motion for summary judgment ruling in the
previously related case Yeh v. Barrington Pacific, LLC, Case No. 20STCV42994
(Exhibit 2 of the request for judicial notice). 
 
            On March 21, 2024, the Moving
Plaintiffs filed a request for judicial notice of the following.
 
1.      Bernuy v. Bridge Property Management Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1174, 1186-1187.
2.      Civil Code section 1786.50 (effective 1998 to
December 31, 2001).
3.      Civil Code Section 1786.50 (effective January
1, 2002, to September 27, 2002).
4.      Civil Code Section 1786.50 (effective September
28, 2002 to December 31, 2003).
5.      Civil Code Section 1786.50 (effective January
1, 2004). 
6.      California Bill Analysis, Senate Committee
1997-1998 Regular Session, Assembly Bill 1454.
7.      California Bill Analysis A.B. 655 Sen.
8/21/2001.
8.      California Bill Analysis, Senate Committee 2001-2002
Regular Session, Assembly Bill 2868.
9.      California Bill Analysis, Assembly Committee 2003-2004
Regular Session, Assembly Bill 1399.
10. Diaz v. Fist
Advantage Corp. (2006) 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 102566.
11. In re Uber
FCRA Litig. (2018) 2018 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 74685.
12. Garcia v.
Quest Grp. Consulting LLC (2022) 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 14555.
 
The Court GRANTS all requests for judicial notice above.
(See Evid. Code 452, subds. (c) and (d) [stating that a court may take judicial
notice of official acts of the legislative departments of any state and court
records of any court of any state and the United States].
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            On March
21, 2024, the Moving Plaintiffs filed evidentiary objections to the
declarations of Justin Penn and Michael Means that were filed in support of
Barrington Pacific’s motion. 
 
The Court rules on the objections to the
declaration of Justin Penn as follows. 
 
·       
No. 1 (the only objection): SUSTAINED on
relevance grounds. Barrington Pacific fails to explain why the fact that
plaintiffs’ counsel solicited clients to sue their landlords under the ICRAA is
relevant to the plaintiffs’ claims. 
 
The Court rules on the objections to the
declaration of Michael Means as follows. 
 
·       
No. 1: SUSTAINED on hearsay grounds. Notwithstanding
that ruling, the allegations that (1) the Moving Plaintiffs had their rental
applications approved and (2) they are currently Barrington Pacific’s tenants are
facts alleged in or can be inferred from the Complaint. (See CytoDyn of New
Mexico, Inc. v. Amerimmune Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
288, 299 [“The allegations in a plaintiff's complaint constitute judicial
admissions, and are ‘conclusive concessions of the truth of a matter and have
the effect of removing it from the issues’ [citation], so that ‘a pleader cannot
blow hot and cold as to the facts positively stated’ ” [Citation.]’
[Citation]”]; Compl., ¶¶ 6-9 [alleging the
plaintiffs are current tenants of Pacific Plaza and Barrington Plaza], 15
[alleging the plaintiffs applied for housing at those properties].)
 
·       
No. 2: SUSTAINED on hearsay grounds.
Notwithstanding that ruling, the Complaint alleges that the plaintiffs’ housing
application included a release permitting Barrington Plaza to obtain the
plaintiffs’ personal and private information from third parties. (Compl., ¶ 15.) 
 
Barrington Pacific has not filed any
evidentiary objections. 
 
Discussion
– Barrington Pacific’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication 
 
I.                  
First Cause of Action for Violation of the
ICRAA 
 
The Complaint alleges that as a direct and
proximate result of the defendants’ failure to comply with ICRAA, the Plaintiffs
incurred “damages, including but not limited to attorneys’ fees and costs, as
set forth in the prayer for relief.” (Compl., ¶ 25.) 
 
Therefore, “Plaintiffs seek all
available remedies pursuant to California Civil Code section 786.50, including
statutory damages and/or actual damages, punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees
and costs.” (Compl., ¶ 28.) The Complaint does not specify what “damages”
Plaintiffs incurred other than attorneys’ fees and costs.
 
The remedies statute for ICRAA states: 
 
An investigative consumer reporting agency or
user of information that fails to comply with any requirement
under [ICRAA] with respect to an investigative consumer report is liable
to the consumer who is the subject of the report in an amount
equal to the sum of all the following:
 
(1) 
Any actual damages sustained by
the consumer as a result of the failure or, except in the case of class
actions, ten thousand dollars ($10,000), whichever sum is greater.
 
(2) 
In the case of any successful action to
enforce any liability under this chapter, the costs of the action together with
reasonable attorney’s fees as determined by the court.
 
(Civ. Code, § 1786.50, subd. (a) [emphasis added].) 
 
The Court will refer to that statute as the “ICRAA
Remedies Provision.”
 
            Compare the ICRAA
Remedies Provision with the following language in Fair
Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C.S. § 1681, et seq. (the “FCRA”):
 
Any person who willfully fails to comply with
any requirement imposed under this subchapter with respect to any consumer is liable
to that consumer in an amount equal to the sum of--
 
(1)(A) any actual damages sustained by
the consumer as a result of the failure or damages of not less than $100 and
not more than $1,000; or
 
(B) in the case of liability of a natural
person for obtaining a consumer report under false pretenses or knowingly
without a permissible purpose, actual damages sustained by the consumer as a
result of the failure or $1,000, whichever is greater;
 
(2) such amount of punitive damages as the
court may allow; and
(3) in the case of any successful action to
enforce any liability under this section, the costs of the action together with
reasonable attorney's fees as determined by the court.
 
(15 U.S.C.A. § 1681n(a) [emphasis added]; Millview County Water Dist.
v. State Water Resources Control Bd. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 585,
594, fn. 5 [“Despite differences between state and federal law, it can be
“appropriate for [a] court to look to relevant federal authorities for further
guidance” in interpreting similar language used in both state and federal
statutes”].) 
 
            Under the ICRAA
Remedies Provision, an investigative consumer reporting agency or user of
information that fails to comply with “any requirement under ICRAA is liable to
the consumer for (1) actual damages sustained by the consumer as a
result of the failure OR (2) $10,000, whichever is greater. 
 
            The parties contest the
meaning of the ICRAA Remedies Provision as follows. 
 
(1)  Barrington Pacific argues that “actual damages” and
“$10,000” are not alternatives under the ICRAA Remedies Provision. Instead,
they are all “damages.” Therefore, it is not enough for the Plaintiffs to prove
that the defendant violated ICRAA; the Plaintiffs must also prove that they
sustained actual damages (or concrete harm) as a result of that violation in
order to recover anything under ICRAA. 
 
(2)  Plaintiffs argue that the $10,000 is a statutory penalty
and is an alternative remedy to actual damages. In other words, as long as the Plaintiffs
can prove that the defendant violated any requirement under ICRAA, the
Plaintiffs are entitled to $10,000 if that amount is greater than the actual
damages they sustained due to the defendant’s violation of ICRAA.
“ ‘Our fundamental task in
interpreting a statute is to determine the Legislature’s intent so as to
effectuate the law’s purpose.’ [Citation.]” (Millview County Water Dist. v.
State Water Resources Control Bd. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 585, 591 (“Millview”).)

“We begin by examining the
statutory language, giving the words their usual, ordinary meanings and giving
each word and phrase significance. [Citation.] We consider such language “ ‘in
the context of the statutory framework as a whole in order to determine its
scope and purpose and to harmonize the various parts of the enactment. ’ ”
[Citation.]” (Millview, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 591.)
“ ‘If there is no ambiguity
in the language, we presume the Legislature meant what it said, and the plain
meaning of the statute governs.’ [Citation.]” (Millview, supra,
32 Cal.App.5th at p. 591.)
“Only ‘[i]f the statutory
language permits more than one reasonable interpretation’ do we ‘consider other
aids, such as the statute’s purpose, legislative history, and public policy.’
[Citation.]” (Millview, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 591.) 
If the statute’s
meaning is still unclear, then in the third and final step, the court would
apply “ ‘reason, practicality, and common sense to the language at hand.’
[Citation.]” (Ailanto
Properties, Inc. v. City of Half Moon Bay (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 572, 582.) “The words of the
statute should be interpreted ‘to make them workable and reasonable.’
[Citation.] [The court would] also consider the consequences that will flow
from a particular statutory interpretation.” (Id. at p. 583.)
Here, the Court finds that the phrase “actual
damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the failure or, except in the
case of class actions, ten thousand dollars ($10,000), whichever sum is
greater” in the ICRAA Remedies Statute is ambiguous. 
 
On one hand, it could mean that (1) a
consumer who is not bringing a class action is only entitled to recover actual
damages sustained as a result of the ICRAA violation, while (2) a consumer who
is bringing a class action is entitled to recover either (A) actual damages or (B)
$10,000, whichever of those two is greater in that class action. The Court
finds this meaning plausible because the word “or” in the statute is
immediately followed by a caveat “except in the case of class actions” to suggest
that class action consumers are to recover something different than a consumer
that is not bringing a class action. 
 
On the other hand, the insertion of the
phrase “except in the case of class actions” could mean that the Legislature
intended that all consumers (except for class action consumer plaintiffs) shall
recover actual damages or $10,000, whichever is greater. In other words, class
action consumers can only recover actual damages. 
 
If the latter view is the correct
interpretation, then giving the word “or” and the phrase “whichever sum is
greater” their ordinary and plain meaning means that “actual damages” and “$10,000”
are intended to be alternative recoveries. Indeed, by stating that a violator
“is liable” to a consumer “in an amount equal to” actual damages or $10,000,
whichever is greater (plus costs and attorney’s fees should the consumer
prevail), the statute shows the Legislature intended to guarantee a consumer
either actual damages or at least $10,000 for ICRAA violation.  
 
It is worth noting that under the FCRA, the
phrase “less than $100 and not more than $1,000” is preceded by the word
“damages” and, therefore, it is clear that those amounts are “damages” and not
“penalties.” In Limon v. Circle K Stores Inc. (2022)
84 Cal. App. 5th 671 (“Limon”), the California Court of Appeal noted that
“the statutory scheme of the FCRA uses both terms—damages and penalties—to
describe potential relief available under the statute.” (Id. at p. 700.)
“ ‘Ordinarily, where the Legislature uses a different word or phrase in one
part of a statute than it does in other sections or in a similar statute
concerning a related subject, it must be presumed that the Legislature intended
a different meaning.’ ” [Citation.] ‘We usually “presume differences in
language ... convey differences in meaning.’ [Citations.]” (Id. at p.
701.) The Limon court noted that the FCRA did not define damages and
penalties and, therefore, looked at the definitions of those words in Black’s
Law Dictionary. (Ibid.) The appellate court concluded that the
dictionary’s definitions and federal and state case law supported the
interpretation that “damages connotes compensation for an injury and the term
penalty connotes punishment for wrongdoing.” (Id. at p. 702.)
 
However, “$10,000” in the ICRAA Remedies Statute
is not preceded by any descriptive word such as “damages” or “penalties.” 
 
Therefore, the statute is ambiguous as to
whether that $10,000 is meant to be statutory damages or civil penalties. (See Raines
v. Coastal Pacific Food Distributors, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 667, 681
[“damages and civil penalties have different purposes; these different purposes
may well explain the Legislature’s reasoning. Damages are intended to be
compensatory, to make one whole. (See Civ. Code, § 3281.) Accordingly, there
must be an injury to compensate. On the other hand, ‘Civil penalties, like
punitive damages, are intended to punish the wrongdoer and to deter future
misconduct.’ [Citation.] An act may be wrongful and subject to civil penalties
even if it does not result in injury”].) According to the California Supreme
Court, “ ‘actual damages,’ … generally refers to pecuniary damages.” (Meyer
v. Sprint Spectrum L.P. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 634, 640.) Specifically, “[t]he
phrase ‘actual damages’ is ordinarily synonymous with compensatory damages
which may include damages for mental suffering.’ [Citation.]” (McNairy v.
C.K. Realty (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1500, 1506; see also Citizens of
Humanity, LLC v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1, 19, disapproved
on other grounds in Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th
310 [“[One case] … recognized that ‘actual damages’ ordinarily means ‘compensatory
damages’ …”].) 
 
Given the ambiguities noted above, it is
proper for the Court to consider other aids, such as the statute’s purpose and legislative
history, to find out if the Legislature intended the $10,000 to be statutory
penalties or minimum damages available to any consumer that can prove a violation
of the relevant ICRAA provisions. 
 
Civil Code section 1786 is part of ICRAA and is
titled “Legislative findings and declarations.” 
 
According to that statute, the Legislature
stated, “the purpose of this title [is] to require that investigative consumer
reporting agencies adopt reasonable procedures for meeting the needs of
commerce for employment, insurance information, and information relating to
the hiring of dwelling units in a manner which is fair and equitable to the
consumer, with regard to the confidentiality, accuracy, relevancy, and
proper utilization of the information in accordance with the requirements of
this title.” (Civ. Code, § 1786, subd. (f) [emphasis added].) The statute
further states that “[t]he Legislature hereby intends [through ICRAA] to regulate
investigative consumer reporting agencies pursuant to this title in a manner
which will best protect the interests of the people of the State of California.”
(Civ. Code, § 1786, subd. (g) [emphasis added].)
 
The Court finds that the purpose of ICRAA
supports the Plaintiffs’ interpretation that the $10,000 is meant to be a civil
penalty because interpreting the statute in that manner would advance the Legislature's
intent of regulating investigative consumer reporting agencies and other
covered violators in a manner that will best protect the interests of the
California citizens and consumers because it will deter future misconduct.
 
Further, according to the legislative
history, in 1998, the Legislature passed S.B. No. 1454 (“SB 1454”), which “would
add new procedures and notice requirements relating to the investigation of
disputes by consumers and the deletion of information in a consumer’s file that
is determined to be inaccurate. [That] bill would also increase the minimum
amount of damages recoverable by a consumer for violations of the act from
$300 to $2,500.” (Consumer Law—Investigative Reporting, 1998 Cal. Legis. Serv.
Ch. 988 (S.B. 1454) (WEST) [emphasis added].) 
 
Although the language of SB 1454 described
the $2,500 as “damages,” it also described that amount as the “minimum” amount
a consumer would recover for violations of ICRAA. The word minimum supports the
interpretation that a consumer was entitled to recover either actual damages or
the statutory amount, whichever amount was greater. 
 
In 2001, the Legislature passed A.B. No. 655
(“AB 655), recognizing that existing law at the time “regulate[d] the
activities of investigative consumer reporting agencies ….” (Consumer
Protection—Creditors—Personal Identification Information, 2001 Cal. Legis.
Serv. Ch. 354 (A.B. 655) (WEST) [the preamble section].) 
 
AB 655 “would revise and recast various
provisions governing the activities of investigative consumer reporting
agencies. Among other things, it would expand the definition of ‘investigative
consumer reporting agency,’ increase disclosure requirements, eliminate certain
exemptions, increase penalties for violations, and would make related
changes.” (Consumer Protection—Creditors—Personal Identification Information,
2001 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 354 (A.B. 655) (WEST) [the preamble section] [emphasis
added].) 
 
AB 655 amended the ICRAA Remedies Statute to
increase a consumer’s minimum recovery of violation of the Act from $2,500 to
$10,000. 
 
It is also worth noting that at least one
Court of Appeal case has implied all damages under the ICRAA Remedies Statute are
penalties. (See Ortiz v. Lyon Management Group, Inc. (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 604, 614 [stating: “ICRAA imposes stricter duties and more severe
penalties on persons compiling or requesting tenant screening reports
containing character information than the [Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies
Act (CCRAA) (§ 1785.1 et seq.)] does on those compiling or requesting tenant
screening reports containing creditworthiness information.” To prove that ICRAA
imposes more severe penalties, the appellate court, in a footnote (fn. 7),
compared the ICRAA Remedies Statute, Civil Code section 1786.50, subds. (a), with
CCRAA provisions].) 
 
In light of the above, the Court agrees with the
Plaintiffs that a consumer who can prove an ICRAA violation is entitled to
recover the greater of actual damages or $10,000. 
 
Notwithstanding the above findings,
Barrington Pacific (1) argues that Plaintiffs lack standing to bring their
claims because they cannot prove that they suffered concrete harm, and, in so
arguing, implies that (2) the above interpretation conflicts with California’s
standing requirements. 
 
“Standing is a question of law ….”
(Estate of Bowles (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 684, 690.)
 
“ ‘Standing is typically
treated as a threshold issue, in that without it no justiciable controversy
exists.’ [Citation.]” (CashCall, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th
273, 286 (“CashCall”).)
 
“ ‘As a general principle,
standing to invoke the judicial process requires an actual justiciable
controversy as to which the complainant has a real interest in the ultimate
adjudication because he or she has either suffered or is about to suffer an
injury of sufficient magnitude reasonably to assure that all of the relevant
facts and issues will be adequately presented to the adjudicator. To have
standing, a party must be beneficially interested in the controversy; that
is, he or she must have “some special interest to be served or some particular
right to be preserved or protected over and above the interest held in common
with the public at large.” [Citation.] The party must be able to demonstrate
that he or she has some such beneficial interest that is concrete and actual,
and not conjectural or hypothetical. A complaining party’s demonstration
that the subject of a particular challenge has the effect of infringing some
constitutional or statutory right may qualify as a legitimate claim of
beneficial interest sufficient to confer standing on that party. [Citation.]’
[Citation.]” (CashCall, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 286
[emphasis added].)
 
Limon is
instructive with regard to the issue of standing under California law. 
 
The emphasis on “under
California law” is important because although Limon was about the FCRA,
the standing issue there was not whether the plaintiff had shown he had
standing under the FCRA or even under federal law, but whether he had standing under
California law to sue in a California court. The case’s background supports
that conclusion. There, the appellant and plaintiff, Ernesto Limon (“Limon”),
sued his prospective employer, Circle K Stores Inc. (“Circle K”), alleging that
Circle K violated the FCRA “by failing to provide him with proper FCRA
disclosures when it sought and received his authorization to obtain a consumer
report about him in connection with his application for employment, and by
actually obtaining the consumer report in reliance on that authorization.” (“,
84 Cal.App.5th at p. 680.) “Prior to filing his complaint in state court,
Limon brought suit in [a] federal district court on the same substantive claims.
[Footnote omitted.]” (Ibid. [emphasis added].) “The district court dismissed
the federal action without prejudice in connection with a motion for
summary judgment and related motion for reconsideration brought by Circle K, finding
[that] Limon lacked standing under article III, section 2 of the United States
Constitution.” (Ibid. [emphasis added].) Thereafter, Limon filed
suit in state court, making the same allegations against Circle K. 
 
In Limon, the appellate
court concluded that “as a general matter, to have standing to pursue a claim
for damages in the courts of California, a plaintiff must be beneficially
interested in the claims he is pursuing.” (Limon, supra, 84
Cal.App.5th at p. 700.) 
 
However, interpreting the ICRAA Remedies
Statute to mean that a mere violation is enough to confer standing on consumers
does not conflict (as the defendant implies) with the requirement that the
consumers show they are beneficially interested in the claims they are
pursuing. For example, ICRAA requires persons procuring or requesting an investigative consumer
report to be made to notify the consumer in writing that an investigative
consumer report will be made regarding the consumer’s character, general reputation,
personal characteristics, and mode of living. (Civ. Code, § 1786.16, subd. (a)(3).) Therefore,
if those persons fail to notify the consumers as ICRAA requires, then their
consumers are beneficially interested in that ICRAA violation because they were
entitled to information under ICRAA but did not receive that information. At
that point, the interest of those consumers is neither conjectural nor
hypothetical because a violation has in fact occurred. (See Civ. Code, § 1786.50, subd. (a) [a covered violator if it
“fails to comply with any requirement under [ICRAA] with respect to an
investigative consumer report …”].)
 
For those reasons, the Court finds Barrington
Pacific’s arguments regarding standing and the interpretation of the ICRAA
Remedies Statute unpersuasive. 
 
The Court also finds that Moving Plaintiffs have
met their burden of showing triable issues exist as to whether the defendant
violated the statute and the Plaintiffs suffered actual damages. Each of the three
plaintiffs has submitted their declaration testifying that the defendant never
provided them with a copy of any of the reports it received about them, never
provided them with any form that had a box to check if the plaintiffs wanted to
receive a copy of any investigative consumer reported that was prepared about
them, never provided them with the name or address of the investigative
consumer reporting agencies, never provided them with a summary of the
provisions of California Civil Code section 1786.222, and never told them that
any investigative consumer report would be made regarding their character,
general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living. (Declaration
of Jean Mejia (“Mejia Decl.”), ¶¶ 5-9; Declaration of Deanna Turner (“Turner Decl.”), ¶¶
5-9; Declaration of Chi Cho (“Cho Decl.”), ¶¶ 5-9.)
 
The Court notes that with regard to Plaintiff
Chi Cho (“Cho”), Barrington Pacific argues that the statute of limitations bars
the plaintiff’s ICRAA claim because (1) Cho signed the rental application that
he alleges violated the ICRAA on June 3, 2020 (the date he discovered that the
application he signed did not contain all the required disclosures under the
ICRAA) and (2) filed his complaint on July 22, 2022, more than two years after
the discovery of Defendant’s alleged violations of the ICRAA. According to the
defendant, ICRAA imposes a two-year statute of limitations on claims brought to
enforce liability under it. (Civ. Code § 1786.52 [“An action to enforce any
liability created under this title may be brought in any appropriate court of
competent jurisdiction within two years from the date of discovery”].)
 
However, as the Plaintiffs argue in
their opposition and the defendant does not dispute in its reply, Emergency
Rule 9 Related to COVID-19 tolled Plaintiff Cho’s claim until October 1, 2020.
(Opposition to Defendant’s Motion, p. 21:3-12 [“Pursuant to Emergency Rule
9(a), ¶ Tolling statutes of limitations over 180 days ¶ Notwithstanding any
other law, the statutes of limitations and repose for civil causes of action
that exceed 180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1, 2020”
(emphasis removed)].) Cho then filed the lawsuit on July 22, 2022, before the
statute of limitations expired on October 1, 2022. 
 
For those reasons, Barrington Pacific’s
request for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for violation of
ICRAA is denied. 
 
II.              
Second Cause of Action for Violation of the UCL
 
Plaintiffs allege in their second cause of
action that the defendants violated the UCL by violating the ICRAA and,
therefore, seek to recover (among other things) restitution for all fees they
paid relating to their housing applications to the defendants. (Compl., ¶¶ 31,
32.)
 
Barrington Pacific now moves for summary
adjudication of the second cause of action, arguing that Plaintiffs’ claims
under the UCL fail because their ICRAA claims also fail. 
 
However, as shown above, the Court has found
that the Plaintiffs have proven there are triable issues of material fact with
regard to their ICRAA claims. 
 
The defendant also argues that Plaintiffs do
not have standing to bring a UCL claim because they did not lose any money or
property due to the alleged ICRAA violations. 

 
“The UCL prohibits, and provides civil
remedies for, unfair competition, which it defines as ‘any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice.’ [Citation.]” (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 320 (“Kwikset”).)
 
“In 2004, the electorate substantially
revised the UCL’s standing requirement; where once private suits could be
brought by ‘any person acting for the interests of itself, its members or the
general public’ [citation], now private standing is limited to any ‘person
who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property’ as a result of
unfair competition [citations].’” (Kwikset Corp., supra, 51
Cal.4th at pp. 320–321 [emphasis added].)
 
“ ‘The intent of this change was to confine
standing to those actually injured by a defendant’s business practices and to
curtail the prior practice of filing suits on behalf of ‘clients who have not
used the defendant’s product or service, viewed the defendant’s advertising, or
had any other business dealing with the defendant ….’ ” [Citation.]’
[Citation.]” (Kwikset Corp., supra, 51 Cal.4th at p. 321.)
 
Therefore, “under the UCL, standing extends
to ‘a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as
a result of the unfair competition’ [citation] ….” (Kwikset Corp., supra,
51 Cal.4th at pp. 321–322.)
 
“Lost money or property” means that “a
plaintiff now must demonstrate some form of economic injury.” (Kwikset Corp.,
supra, 51 Cal.4th at p. 323.) “[L]ost money or property—economic
injury—is itself a classic form of injury in fact.” (Ibid.) “If a party
has alleged or proven a personal, individualized loss of money or property in
any nontrivial amount, he or she has also alleged or proven injury in fact.” (Id.
at p. 325.) “Because the lost money or property requirement is more
difficult to satisfy than that of injury in fact, for courts to first consider
whether lost money or property has been sufficiently alleged or proven will
often make sense.” (Ibid.) “If [lost money or property has] not been
[sufficiently alleged], standing is absent and the inquiry is complete.” (Ibid.)
“If it has been, the same allegations or proof that suffice to establish
economic injury will generally show injury in fact as well [citation], and thus
it will again often be the case that no further inquiry is needed.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek to recover (among other
things) restitution for all fees they paid relating to their housing
applications to the defendants. (Compl., ¶ 32.)
However, to have standing under the UCL to
recover those application fees or other lost money or property, the Plaintiffs
must show the lost money or property was caused by the defendants’
alleged violation of ICRAA. 
 
Here, even if the Court were to find the
defendant has met its initial burden, the Court finds that the Plaintiffs have
met their burden of showing that triable issues of material fact exist as to
whether they lost property (specifically, copies of their consumer reports) as
a result of the defendant’s alleged failure to comply with ICRAA. The Act
states: “(b) Any person described in subdivision (d) of Section 1786.12 who
requests an investigative consumer report, in accordance with subdivision (a)
regarding that consumer, shall do the following: (1) Provide the
consumer a means by which the consumer may indicate on a written form, by means
of a box to check, that the consumer wishes to receive a copy of any report
that is prepared. If the consumer wishes to receive a copy of the report,
the recipient of the report shall send a copy of the report to the consumer
within three business days of the date that the report is provided to the
recipient, who may contract with any other entity to send a copy to the
consumer.” (Civ. Code § 1786.16, subd. (b)(1) [emphasis added].) Here,
each moving plaintiff testifies that had there been a box to check so that they
could receive a copy of the report, they would have checked those boxes, but
the defendant never provided that box and never gave them a copy of those
reports. (Mejia
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Turner Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Cho Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Barrington
Pacific has not cited, and the Court has not found, any law finding that a
consumer report cannot be considered “property” within the meaning of UCL
standing. 
 
For those reasons, Barrington Pacific’s
request for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for violation of
the UCL is denied.
 
III.           
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication is
denied. 
 
Discussion
– Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication 
 
            Plaintiffs move for summary adjudication of their first
cause of action for violation of ICRAA, arguing that there are no triable
issues regarding whether Barrington Pacific (1) obtained investigative consumer
reports about Plaintiffs, (2) failed to provide the check box required by Civil
Code section 1786.16(b), (3) failed to provide the name and address of the
investigative consumer reporting agency that would prepare the reports, (4) failed
to provide a summary of the provisions of Civil Code section 1786.22, and (5) failed
to provide copies of the reports. 
 
            In their papers, the parties essentially raise the same
questions of law (e.g., whether the Plaintiffs have standing to bring their
claims in Court and suffered a concrete injury) and discuss the same evidence as
the ones discussed above (e.g., the Moving Plaintiffs’ declarations).
 
            However, the summary judgment and adjudication states:
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to
justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just.
The application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also
be made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (h) [emphasis
added].)
 
            Here, Barrington Pacific argues it has an affirmative
defense under ICRAA’s Civil Code section 1786.50, subdivision (c), which
states:   
 
Notwithstanding
[the ICRAA Remedies Statute], an investigative consumer reporting agency or
user of information that fails to comply with any requirement under this title
with respect to an investigative consumer report shall not be liable to
a consumer who is the subject of the report where the failure to comply
results in a more favorable investigative consumer report than if there had
not been a failure to comply. 
 
(Emphasis
added.) 
 
Barrington
Pacific argues that it pled that affirmative defense in its Answer, but
Plaintiffs have prevented the defendant from obtaining information relevant to
that defense. (Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion, p.  23:4-17; Declaration of Justin M. Penn, ¶¶4-5.)
The defendant argues that since it approved each plaintiff’s housing
application, each Plaintiffs’ credit very likely improved due to their rental
applications and the defendant’s alleged conduct, and, therefore, the defendant
cannot be held liable to Plaintiffs under the ICRAA. (Opposition, p. 8:12-15.)
 
Plaintiffs
do not dispute in their reply the defendant’s argument that they withheld
discovery that would have allowed the defendant to prove its affirmative
defense. (See Reply, p. 7:15-20 [discussing Civil Code section 1786.50,
subdivision (c), in the context of the issues of damages and standing under
ICRAA but failing to address Barrington Pacific’s argument regarding obtaining
discovery relevant to that statute].)  
 
Therefore,
the Court finds it proper to deny the Moving Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication of the first cause of action and allow the defendant to obtain
discovery relevant to its affirmative defense. 
 
Accordingly,
the Moving Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication is also denied. 

It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:
April 12, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 