 Case Number:  23STCV12862    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AND ASSET MANAGEMENT, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GOTHAM INSURANCE COMPANY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV12862
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING APPLICATION
  FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 13, 2024



 
Thomas
D. Jacobson seeks to be admitted pro hac vice to represent Defendant Gotham Insurance
Company in this action.
An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction who is not be a resident of California,
regularly employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in California may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  The attorney must
a verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State
Bar of California at its San Francisco office. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c).)  The applicant must also pay a $50.00 fee to the
State Bar of California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(e).)
The
application must state (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of
each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone
number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d).)
The
application does not comply with all requirements.  Counsel does not include his residence address
or any information about whether he has applied to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in this state in the preceding two years.
Accordingly,
the Hearing on Motion to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is CONTINUED to July 16, 2024
at 8:30 a.m.  Counsel may file an amended
application no later than five court days before the hearing.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 13th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 