  Case Number:  23VECV05184    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Cecillia Hailey,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Neighborhood
  Legal Services Los Angeles,
Defendant. 


          Case Number             Department
      23VECV05184                     107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
Motion
  to Strike
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]
The Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND

Factual

 
The following factual background is drawn from the Complaint (as defined
below).
 
On April 18, 2023, plaintiff Cecillia Hailey (“Plaintiff”) was served a
three-day pay-or-quit notice by her residential landlord.
 
Plaintiff alleges that, on May 3, 2023, Plaintiff entered into a retainer
agreement with defendant Neighborhood Legal Services of Los Angeles County
(“Defendant”), a private non-profit legal services provider, in which parties
agreed Defendant would provide legal services to Plaintiff related to the
three-day pay-or-quit notice. However, according to Plaintiff, Defendant did
not reply timely to the notice, Plaintiff was “locked out” of her home, and
lost her landlord’s unlawful detainer suit against her on default.
 

Procedural

 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against
Defendant alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2)
professional negligence, and (3) breach of contract. (Complaint pp. 1–3.)
The Complaint seeks an award of damages related to Plaintiff’s cost of securing
emergency housing, punitive or exemplary damages, and treble damages. (Id.,
p. 3) 
 
On January 9, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to strike (the
“Motion”). The Motion is unopposed. The deadline to file an opposition was on Thursday,
February 8, 2024.
            
II. ANALYSIS 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion
to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or
has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id., § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
Defendant moves to strike paragraphs “B” and “C” of Plaintiff’s prayer for
damages in the complaint, which are for “punitive and exemplary damages” and
“treble damages according to the court’s discretion,” respectively. (Notice of
Motion p. 2; Complaint p. 3.)
 

Punitive
     Damages

 
A motion to strike is appropriate to attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a
motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing
an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on
the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Clausen v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations omitted).) 
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive
damages “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. . . .”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In order to justify
an award of punitive damages, the defendant must be guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice. He must act with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a
conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg v. California Life
Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations omitted).) “[M]alice
in fact is required rather than implied malice. However, malice does not
require actual intent to harm. Conscious disregard for the safety of
another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to
avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations omitted).) “In order to justify an
award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct,
and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.)
 
Here, Plaintiff fails to plead any facts that show oppression, fraud, or
malice by Defendant. Plaintiff pleads that Defendant’s agent made incorrect
“assumptions” about the unlawful detainer that harmed her, that Defendant
“failed to act in Plaintiff’s best interest” despite Plaintiff having placed
her trust in Defendant, and that Defendant negligently failed to communicate
with her. However, none of these show or imply oppression, fraud, or malice.
Even if we infer from the Complaint that Defendant, being a legal services
provider, was “aware of the probable [negative] consequences of [its] conduct,”
Plaintiff still does not plead any facts that go to Defendant’s mental state or
show “willful[] and deliberate[]” conduct. Thus, Plaintiff fails to plead any
facts that would authorize the recovery of punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike the Complaint’s
prayer for punitive damages.
 

Treble
     Damages

 
Treble damages refer to the “punitive in nature” tripling of a damages
award, which may be authorized by statute in certain cases, such as for the
taking or killing cattle or for the unauthorized diversion of electricity, gas,
or water. (Imperial Merchant Services, Inc. v. Hunt (2009) 47 Cal.4th
381, 394; 6 Witkin, Summary 11th Torts § 1741 (2023).) There is statute
authorizing treble damages for breach of fiduciary duty, professional
negligence, or breach of contract.
 
Here, treble damages are unavailable to Plaintiff based on the facts and
causes of action pled in her Complaint because there is no statute authorizing
them. Accordingly, this court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike the
Complaint’s prayer for treble damages.
 
III. CONCLUSION
This court GRANTS the Motion in its entirety. Plaintiff may amend her Complaint.
Dated:  February 23, 2024                                                                                                        
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court