 The initial Complaint in this matter was filed on July 11, 2023.On May 14, 2024, Plaintiffs Steven Souza, Steven A. Souza Insurance Agency, Inc., and SA USA, Inc. filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of contract, and (3)-(5) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage.DemurrerDefendants Farmers Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Co., and Farmers New World Life Insurance Co. now demur to the FAC’s  interference claims for failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)The elements of a claim for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.”  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 (internal quotation marks omitted).)  “To establish a claim for interference with prospective economic advantage . . . a plaintiff must plead that the defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act.”  (Id. at p. 1158.)  An “act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable standard.”   (Id. at p. 1159.)For the subject causes of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants interfered with the prospective economic business between Plaintiff SA USA dba Machine Shop and Manufacturing Safety Association, dba B.A.K.E.R.S Safety Association, and dba Hotel and Motel Safety Association and its members by telling members to withhold membership fees and preventing Plaintiff from terminating memberships.Statute of Limitations  Defendants first argue that “[b]ecause the conduct giving rise to SA USA’s tortious interference claims occurred in 2018, and this action was initiated on July 11, 2023, SA USA’s third through fifth causes of action against Farmers are plainly time-barred by the two year statute of limitations.”The statute of limitations for the subject claims is two years.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 339(1); Tu-Vu Drive-In Corp. v. Davies (1967) 66 Cal.2d 435, 437.)The FAC indicates that Plaintiff suffered damages for these claims starting sometime in 2019 and continuing for the membership fees for 2020, 2021, and 2022.  (See, e.g., FAC ¶ 103.)  As discussed, the initial Complaint was filed in July 2023.  The FAC, however, seeks to indicate delayed discovery.  “The discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action. . . . In other words, plaintiffs are required to conduct a reasonable investigation after becoming aware of an injury, and are charged with knowledge of the information that would have been revealed by such an investigation.”  (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807-808.)  A “plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.”  (Id. at p. 808, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Here, it is alleged that sometime in 2021 is the earliest date it could be discovered that Defendants’ conduct was behind the drop in membership fees.  Plaintiff alleges that in 2021 it sought to end the membership of Kurk Miller and was then informed of Defendants’ conduct.  (FAC ¶ 41.)  This is nearly sufficient; however, Plaintiff cannot merely plead that 2021 was the discovery date; Plaintiff is required to plead a specific month as well.   Defendants argue that the $41,000 drop in fees in 2019 should have triggered an investigation at that time that would have revealed the conduct at issue.  This, however, is a factual issue. While delayed discovery has not been pleaded, to the extent that Plaintiff seeks fees for 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022, it might be argued that the membership fees for the different years relate to different causes of action.  This issue was not properly briefed or discussed by the parties.  At the moment, the Court will assume that the fees from 2021 and 2022 could still be at issue.  Necessary ElementsDefendants next argue that the subject claims fail because Plaintiff fails to plead (1) that Defendants’ conduct was designed to cause disruption and (2) independently wrongful conduct.The first argument is flatly rejected as raising factual issues.  The ultimate facts have been pleaded and Defendants can obtain further facts in discovery.For the second argument, as discussed, an “act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable standard.”  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.)Here, it is not apparent how Defendants’ directive to members was independently wrongful under statute or common law.  The FAC does not plead fraud.  Plaintiffs argue only that: “because intentionally inducing or causing a breach of an existing contract is wrongful in and of itself, plaintiff in an action for intentional interference with an existing contractual relationship is not required to plead or prove that defendant's conduct is wrongful apart from the interference with the contract itself . . . .”Plaintiffs, however, do not seem to be alleging claims for interference with contract.  They labeled their claims as interference with prospective economic advantage, which does require a pleading of independently wrongful conduct.  At the very least, there is uncertainty with respect to the pleadings.  Thus, at this time, the Demurrer is sustained, with twenty days leave to amend.Motion to Strike Defendants also seek to strike the FAC as follows: “(i) all of Souza’s and the Agency’s allegations pertaining to Farmers’ alleged breaches of contract (and any alleged resulting damages) occurring prior to July 12, 2019 are irrelevant and improper because they occurred beyond the applicable statutes of limitations, and either (ii) all of SA USA’s allegations of Farmers’ purported tortious interference occurring before July 12, 2021 (including any alleged resulting damages, whenever incurred) are irrelevant and improper because they occurred beyond the applicable statutes of limitations, or, at a minimum, (iii) all of SA USA’s alleged tortious interference damages incurred before July 12, 2021 are irrelevant and improper because they occurred beyond the applicable statutes of limitations.”Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Given the ruling on the Demurrer, the Motion to Strike is denied as moot with respect to SA USA, Inc. and the interference claims.  With respect to Souza’s first cause of action, Defendants argue, “the vast majority of the allegations asserted by Souza in support of his claim for breach of contract against Farmers took place between 2001 and 2012, and thus are plainly time-barred. Souza’s own allegations make clear that he knew of the supposed breaches of contract as they occurred. . . . The original complaint in this action was filed on July 11, 2023, and thus any allegations [ ] occurring before July 12, 2019 fall outside of the four-year statute of limitations applicable to breach of contract claims.”While Souza might not obtain relief for wrongs before July 11, 2019, the allegations at issue could be relevant to the payment of commissions within the limitations period.  For this reason, the Motion to Strike is denied.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 