 Case Number:  23TRCV01317    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Tuesday, April 30, 2024  
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 12  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Epps
& Coulson, LLP v. Stuart Lee Zubrick, et al.    
23TRCV01317
1.     
Epps &
Coulson, LLP’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Epps & Coulson, LLP’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is denied. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 26, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Defendant owes Plaintiff for legal services
rendered. On July 13, 2023, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint.
Cross-Complainant alleged the following causes of action based on
Cross-Defendant’s representation of Cross-Complainant in the prior legal action:
1. Fraud; 2. Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 3. Breach of Contract; 4. Slander of
Title; 5. Cancellation/Expungement of Lien and Quiet Title/Injunctive Relief. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Cross-Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 439. (Decl., Harold C. Trimmer, ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Cross-Defendant’s request for judicial notice is
granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).

Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same
function as a general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has
expired.  Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).  Except as provided by
statute, the rules governing demurrers apply.  Civic Partners Stockton,
LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1012.  “Judgment on the
pleadings is proper when the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against the defendant.”  Rolfe v. Cal.
Transp. Comm’n (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 239, 242; see also Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion
[for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.”  Civic Partners Stockton, LLC, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial
notice may be taken are assumed to be true.”  Rippon v. Bowen
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.
 
Cross-Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as
to Cross-Complaint. “This motion is made on the grounds that the
Cross-Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes
of action for fraud, breach of contract, and breach of fiduciary duty because
those causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations. The
Cross-Complaint also does not state a cause of action for slander of title,
because it is barred by the litigation privilege.” (Notice of Motion, page 2,
lines 6-9.)
 
First Cause of
Action for Fraud
Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Third Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract
            
            Cross-Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first through third causes of
action is denied. Cross-Complainant states sufficient facts to state a cause of
action.
 
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first through third causes of
action is based solely on the belief that the allegations of the first through
third causes of action reveal a bar pursuant to the applicable statute of
limitations which Cross-Defendant contends is CCP § 340.6(a).
 
            CCP
§ 340.6(a) states, in relevant part: “An action against an attorney for a
wrongful act or omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the
performance of professional services shall be commenced within one year after
the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have
discovered, the facts constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years
from the date of the wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.” 
 
            CCP
§ 340.6 has also been applied to tort-based claims such as breach of fiduciary
duty and negligent misrepresentation, as well as contract-based claims that
arise from the provision of professional legal services. Quintilliani v.
Mannerino (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 54, 69. “The principal purpose or
“gravamen” of the action, rather than the form of action or the relief
demanded, determines the applicable statute of limitations. The court should
take into account matters such as context, the object in view, the evils to be
remedied, the history of the times and of legislation upon the same subject,
public policy, and contemporaneous construction.” Vafi v. McCloskey
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 874, 880 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Initially,
as to the first cause of action, by its very terms, CCP § 340.6 does not apply
to “actual fraud.”  Thus, the motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the first cause of action can be quickly denied
outright. 
 
            Cross-Defendant
attempts to argue that the allegations do not support a cause of action for
“actual fraud,” but instead simply restates and repurposes the allegations of breach
of contract and breach of fiduciary duty (or professional negligence). Cross-Defendant
is incorrect. The allegations specifically are stated in the form of actual
fraud – more specifically fraud in the inducement. Cross-Complainant contends
that material misrepresentations were made that induced Cross-Complainant into
entering into the legal services agreement with Cross-Defendant.
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 20-27.) The allegations are not simply a clever way of
restating the professional negligence and breach of contract claims but instead
a separate distinct theory of fraud in the inducement.
 
            As
to the second and third causes of action to which CCP § 340.6 would apply,
there are no allegations on the face of the Cross-Complaint which would reveal
a bar based on the statute of limitations. Cross-Defendant argues that “he
admits that a malpractice claim, if asserted, would be barred. (See
Cross-Complaint at ¶ 31.)” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities, page 7, lines
2-3.)  Paragraph 31 of the
Cross-Complaint states as follows: “Cross-Complainant is informed and believes
and thereon alleges that then Coulson kept working until a convenient time to
bail out, then asserting liens against the client’s case, and often the
client’s assets, waiting a year or more until after terminating representation
to attempt to avoid the inevitable malpractice claim (by clients who could
afford to pursue it), then suing the clients for outrageous, questionable,
unreasonable and unfair fees for work which was either partial, incomplete,
unnecessary, or combinations of the three.”  However, a review of the preceding paragraphs
reveal that this allegation is not specific to the case at hand but instead a
sweeping statement concerning Cross-Defendant’s pattern with unnamed “clients.”
The allegation is not nearly specific enough to demonstrate that this
Cross-Complainant discovered or reasonably should have discovered wrongdoing
within one year. In fact, even assuming arguendo that the allegation was
specifically directed to this case, the allegation is simply too vague to show
that this specific Cross-Complainant reasonably should have discovered facts of
wrongdoing within one year.
 
            Later,
Cross-Defendant argues that “the cross-complaint admits that Zubrick had notice
of any potential claim. (Cross-Complaint at ¶ 33.)” (Memorandum of Points and
Authorities, page 9, lines 13-14.)  Paragraph
33 of the Cross-Complaint states as follows: “Cross-Complainant is informed and
believes and thereon alleges that Cross-Defendants have obtained millions of
dollars in fraudulent judgments and settlements with clients in the past eleven
years, many of which were default judgments, against unsuspecting clients who
simply could not afford the costs of legal defense.” Clearly, nothing within
this allegation reveals a bar based on the one-year (discovery portion) statute
of limitations of CCP § 340.6. In addition, a review of all the allegations of
the Cross-Complaint and not merely the two paragraphs specifically identified by
Cross-Defendant does not reveal such a bar. 
 
            Instead,
the only specific allegations that appear to touch upon the statute of
limitations states as follows: “What Zubrick did not know, however, was that on
or about April 30, 2021, Cross-Defendants falsely, fraudulently, and without
legal justification, had also caused to be filed and publicly recorded a
“Notice of Attorney’s Lien,” on the Subject Properties, true and correct copies
of which are attached hereto as Exhibits C and D. As no notice was given by
Coulson, this was not discovered until a year later. In November 2, 2022,
demand was made on Coulson to explain the basis for the lien.”
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 46-48.)  The
Complaint was filed in April 2023 and the Cross-Complaint in July 2023, both
within one year of that date.
 
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first through third causes of
action is denied.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Slander of Title
 
            Cross-Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of action is
denied. Cross-Complainant states facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
            The
motion is based solely on the grounds that the fourth cause of action is barred
by the litigation privilege. 
 
            Civ.
Code § 47(b) provides an absolute privilege for a publication made in a
legislative, judicial, or official proceeding. 
See Dove Audio, Inc. v. Rosenfeld,
Meyer & Susman (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 777, 780.  “The usual formulation is that the privilege
applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action. The principal purpose of [the litigation
privilege] is to afford litigants and witnesses [citation] the utmost freedom
of access to the courts without fear of being harassed subsequently by
derivative tort actions. Or, as otherwise stated, it exists to protect citizens
from the threat of litigation for communications to government agencies whose
function it is to investigate and remedy wrongdoing. To achieve this end, the
absolute privilege is interpreted broadly to apply to any communication,
not just a publication, having ‘some relation’ to a judicial [or
quasi-judicial] proceeding,” irrespective of the communication's maliciousness
or untruthfulness. And judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings are defined
broadly to include all kinds of truth-seeking proceedings, including
administrative, legislative and other official proceedings. Further, the
privilege is not limited to statements made during a trial or other
proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior thereto, or afterwards.” People
ex rel. Gallegos v. Pacific Lumber Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 950, 958
(internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            However,
an exception to the general rule of the application of the litigation privilege
exists as to a former client filing an action against his former attorney. “The
litigation privilege, if applicable, would preclude essentially any action by a
former client against an attorney for breach of professional duties arising
from communicative conduct in litigation on behalf of that client. We believe
that to allow litigation attorneys to breach their professional duties owed to
their own clients with impunity from civil liability would undermine the
attorney-client relationship and would not further the policies of affording
free access to the courts and encouraging open channels of communication and
zealous advocacy. We therefore hold that the litigation privilege is
inapplicable in an action by a former client against an attorney for breach of
professional duties[.]” Fremont Reorganizing Corp. v. Faigin (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1153, 1173–74. 
 
            Cross-Defendant
attempts to limit and distinguish this holding by arguing that the fourth cause
of action is not based on a breach of professional duty. However, the fourth
cause of action for Slander of Title is specifically based upon recordation of
liens in March 2021 upon the subject property in the prior underlying lawsuit.
The fourth cause of action directly relates to the series of events and actions
that implicate Cross-Defendant’s alleged breach of professional duty which were
previously outlined in depth in the first through third causes of action. The
policy reason for the holding of Fremont would be undermined if the
exception is not applied in this instance simply because the cause of action
was titled “Slander of Title.” The alleged slander of title occurred during the
course of Cross-Defendant’s alleged conduct constituting breach of professional
duties.
 
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of action is
denied.
 
Thus, Cross-Defendant’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is denied. 
 
Cross-Complainant is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.