  Case Number:  23TRCV00882    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                          Tuesday, April 30, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar
No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jaime Espindola v. Demarco Smith, et al.
            23TRCV00882
1.      USAA
Casualty Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to File Complaint-in-Intervention

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            USAA Casualty Insurance Company’s (“USAA”)
Motion for Leave to File Complaint-in-Intervention is granted. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 24, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Defendant. 
 
Motion for Leave to File Complaint in Intervention
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 387(b) states: “An intervention
takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action
or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the following: (1) Joining
a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint. (2) Uniting with a
defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff. (3) Demanding anything
adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 387(d)(1) states: “The court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.  (B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.”
 
Code of Civ. Proc., 387(d)(2) states: “The court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”
 
“When leave [to intervene] is granted, the intervenor
becomes a party with the same rights and remedies of the original
parties.”  4 Witkin, Cal. Proc., Sec. 226
(5th Ed. 2012) (citing People v. Perris
Irr. Dist. (1901) 132 Cal. 289, 290). 
“A party seeking intervention must ordinarily show an interest under the
existing pleadings and issues, and will not be allowed to come in on a claim
that enlarges the issues and changes the nature of the main proceedings.  4 Witkin, Cal. Proc., Sec. 227 (5th
Ed. 2012) (citing Muller v. Robinson
(1959) 174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515.)
 
USAA moves for an order permitting it to file a
Complaint-in-Intervention pursuant to CCP § 387 to defend this action and
assert defenses on behalf of its insured Defendant Demarco Smith. Moving party
states that its insured Demarco Smith cannot be located by USAA, at this time. 
 
USAA has established that the motion is timely. The
motion was filed only a few months after service upon Smith of the summons and
complaint. There is no trial date yet and the case is not at issue. The motion
is considered timely if brought within a reasonable time. See, Sanders v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1975) 53 Cal.
App.3d 661, 668-69.  Here, no party has
challenged the motion based on untimeliness. 
 
USAA has established that it has an interest in this
litigation that warrants intervention in this proceeding. USAA is the insurer
of Defendant and Defendant has yet to be located.  Therefore, USAA has established that it has an
interest relating to the subject matter of the action and that it is so
situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede its ability to
protect that interest, and/or that it has an interest in the matter in
litigation, or in the success of the parties. 
In addition, there is no showing that granting leave to intervene will
enlarge the issues or change the nature of the proceedings. 
 
Thus, USAA’s Motion for Leave to File Complaint-in-Intervention
is granted.
 
USAA is ordered to file and serve the proposed
Complaint-in-Intervention within five days of this date.
 
USAA is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 