  Case Number:  20STCV19634    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LINDA JEAN PAWLIK, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DEDICATO
   TREATMENT CENTER, INC. 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV19634
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT DEDICATO TREATMENT CENTER, INC.’S MOTION TO
  DISMISS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   20, 2024




 


)


 



 
This action
was filed on May 22, 2020, by plaintiff Linda Jean Pawlik (“Plaintiff”) against
defendant Dedicato Treatment Center, Inc. (“Defendant”). On November 21, 2024,
Defendant filed this motion to dismiss the Complaint, i.e., for terminating
sanctions, due to Plaintiff’s failure to comply with her discovery obligations.
Specifically, Defendant argues that terminating sanctions pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 because Plaintiff has failed to produce her
experts for deposition on October 17, 2024, and October 18, 2024, after the
Court ordered her to do so on September 19, 2024 (“September 19 Order”). 
On
receipt of an expert witness list from a party, any other party may take the
deposition of any person on the list. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.410.) The court
may issue an order compelling a party or party-affiliated deponent’s attendance
and testimony if the person fails to appear after being served with a
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) If the
party-affiliated deponent then fails to obey the order compelling their
attendance, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction against the party with whom the deponent is affiliated. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (h).) 
Defendant
argues that terminating sanctions are appropriate because it has had to file
seven discovery motions during this proceeding in order to force Plaintiff to
comply with her discovery obligations. In fact, on July 26, 2023, more than a
year ago, the Court denied Defendant’s earlier request to terminate this action
on grounds that Plaintiff should not bear the consequences for Plaintiff’s
counsel’s medical issues. However, the Court cannot ignore Plaintiff’s continual
failure to comply with its orders or her discovery obligations. (Manzetti v.
Sup. Ct. (1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 373, 379; Liberty Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v.
LcL Administrators, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1106.) The Court
additionally notes that for the final status conference held on December 5,
2024, the Court received trial binders only from Defendant because Defendant’s
counsel was not able to obtain Plaintiff’s counsel’s cooperation in the
preparation of joint binders. Plaintiff’s counsel asserted that he had a
serious ongoing medical issue. Counsel and was given leave to file a
declaration under seal explaining those issues. The Court further ordered joint
trial binders to be delivered by December 16, 2024.
Despite
the Court’s September 19 Order, Plaintiff has failed to produce her experts for
their depositions. Plaintiff
did not oppose this motion or file a declaration regarding her counsel’s
medical issues. Nor did Plaintiff prepare trial binders in anticipation for
trial as directed at the final status conference. Notwithstanding Plaintiff’s
counsel assertion that he would be seeking the assistance of, or substituting
in, new counsel, no such new counsel has emerged. 
Based on the foregoing, it appears that
Plaintiff is no longer interested in prosecuting this action. Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to dismiss is GRANTED and Plaintiff’s Complaint is hereby
dismissed with prejudice. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 20th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


     William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 