 Case Number:  22AHCV00192    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAULINE YIP, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EASTERN
   HORIZON, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00192
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS EASTERN HORIZON, LLC, CHONG DING, AND YAN DING’S
   MOTION REGARDING PLAINTIFF’S EQUITABLE CLAIMS  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   20, 2024




 


)


 



 
On November 18, 2024, defendants
Eastern Horizon, LLC (“Eastern Horizon”), Chong Ding aka Virginia Ding (“Ding”)
and Yan Ding (“Trustee”), as Trustee of the 2004 Anchen Gift Trust dated
December 23, 2004 (“Anchen Gift Trust”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this
memorandum of points and authorities in support of their request to try
plaintiff Pauline Yip’s (“Plaintiff”) equitable claims for specific
performance, quiet title, cancellation of instrument, and declaratory relief by
the Court before empaneling a jury. 
On December 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On December 13, 2024, Defendants filed
a reply brief.  
A trial court has the authority to
order a trial of equitable claims before legal claims. (Nwosu v. Uba (2004)
122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1242.) “[T]his is the preferred procedure where the case
includes both equitable and legal claims” and the “gist” of the complaint seeks
equitable relief because a trial of equitable issues may result in factual
findings that effectively dispose of the legal claims. (Id., at p. 1242,
1244.) 
Here, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
equitable claims concern the ownership of the property located at 37 Twiggs,
Irvine, California (“Twiggs Property”) and should be tried first because they
are based on the same exact facts as her two legal claims for fraud and
negligent misrepresentation. (Brief, p. 6.) Defendants assert that the only
other legal claim remaining is Plaintiff’s claim for indemnity relating to improper
reporting of capital gains to the Internal Revenue Service in 2014 while
Plaintiff served as trustee of the Anchen Gift Trust. Defendants contend this
indemnity claim is predicated on facts that are completely unrelated to any
claims relating to the Twiggs Property.
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s proposal
to essentially bifurcate trial and argues that bifurcation would not save time
or judicial resources. Plaintiff broadly claims that the issues of tax
liability requires the same testimony and evidence as those relating to the
equitable cause of action because the parties’ relationship dates back to the
1990s and the tax liability arose in 2013. However, the issue of tax liability
does not appear to be related to Plaintiff’s claims regarding the Twiggs
Property, which make up the “gist” of her claims. Plaintiff does not specify
how the evidence presented would necessarily overlap, considering the Twiggs
Property was purchased in 2018, several years after Plaintiff’s tax liability
arose. Also, even if the relationship between Plaintiff and Ding began in the
1990s, Plaintiff did not serve as trustee of the Anchen Gift Trust until 2010. Additionally,
Defendants point out in their reply brief that they have asserted equitable
defenses which may be dispositive of Plaintiff’s claims regarding the Twiggs
Property. (Reply, p. 8.) 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
bifurcate trial is GRANTED and Plaintiff’s causes of action for specific
performance, quiet title, cancellation of instrument, and declaratory relief,
as well as Defendant’s defenses of estoppel, unclean hands, and failure to do
equity, shall be tried by the Court before a jury will hear any remaining legal
claims. 
Dated
this 20th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 