 Case Number:  23STCV15907    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BRITTANI WILLIAMS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CORNERSTONE ONDEMAND, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV15907
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS
 
Date: 
  December 6, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc. (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of an
employment relationship.  Plaintiff’s
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges a cause of action under the Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”).
 
On August 10, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a motion
to compel arbitration (the “Motion”) on the grounds that Plaintiff is required
to resolve her individual PAGA claims in arbitration pursuant to an arbitration
agreement (the “Agreement”) she entered into during her employment.  The Motion also requests that the Court stay
the balance of the PAGA claim pending the conclusion of arbitration. 
 
DISCUSSION 
The
purpose of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) is to move the parties in an
arbitrable dispute out of court and into arbitration as quickly and easily as
possible.  (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460
U.S. 1, 23.)  The FAA is consistent with
the federal policy to ensure the enforceability, according to their terms, of
private agreements to arbitrate.  (Mastrobuono v.
Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc. (1995) 514 U.S. 52, 57.)  A written agreement to submit to arbitration
an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid,
enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.  (CCP §
1281.)  California law, like federal law,
favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.)  On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy unless grounds exist not to compel arbitration.  (CCP § 1281.2.)  
 
In support of the Motion, Moving Defendant provide
evidence of the Agreement, which provides in part: 
“Both I and the Company agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy
that I may have against the Company (or its owners, directors, officers,
managers,
employees, or agents), or the Company may have against me, shall be
submitted to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration under the
Federal
Arbitration Act ("FAA"), in conformity with the procedures of
the California
Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec 1280 et seq., including section
1283.05
and all of the Act's other mandatory and permissive rights to discovery).
The FAA
applies to this Agreement because the Company's business involves
interstate
commerce.”  (See Declaration
of Julie Bernard (“Bernard Decl.”) ¶ 13, Exhibit B.)
 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute the existence or validity
of the Agreement, but argues that the Complaint is solely a representative PAGA
action that is therefore not arbitrable. 
Plaintiff’s argument misstates the nature of a PAGA claim, which
authorizes aggrieved employees to recover a civil penalty on behalf of
themselves and other current or former employees against whom one or
more of the alleged violations was committed. 
(See Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (g)(1) (emphasis added).)  Moreover, despite Plaintiff’s
characterization of her claims, the Complaint alleges claims for damages for
Plaintiff and other aggrieved employees. 
(See, e.g., Complaint ¶ 37.) 

 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims are subject to arbitration under Viking River Cruises, Inc. v.
Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906, 1923-25.)  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion and
orders that Plaintiff’s individual claims be resolved in arbitration.  The Court STAYS the remainder of the action pending the conclusion of the arbitration
proceedings.  The Court schedules a
status conference on June 5, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in this department.  The parties are to submit a joint status
report by May 29, 2024.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        
Dated this 6th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 
 