 Case Number:  23STCV18629    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CLAYTON RISNER,  et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ESSEX PORTFOLIO, LP, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV18629
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date: December 6, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Essex Portfolio, LP (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Clayton Risner (“Mr. Risner”) and
Adrianna Risner (“Ms. Risner”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a landlord/tenant relationship.  Plaintiffs’ complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges: (1) negligence; (2) negligent hiring and supervision; (3) tortious
breach of the warranty of habitability; (4) breach of the implied warranty of
habitability; (5) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (6) nuisance; (7)
violation of the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance (“LAMC”); (8)
constructive eviction; (9) failure to timely return security deposit; and (10)
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
In relevant part, the Complaint alleges: In or around March 2021,
Plaintiffs entered into a lease agreement with Moving Defendant and began to
rent an apartment in a property (the “Property”) owned by Moving
Defendant.  (Complaint ¶ 9, Exhibit
A.)  During Plaintiffs’ tenancy, there
was a recurring leak in the Property’s ceiling that would cause Plaintiffs’
smoke detectors to go off, which frightened Plaintiffs’ toddler.  (Complaint ¶ 12.)  
 
On or around January 20, 2023, a severe leak caused water damage in
the primary bedroom.  (Complaint
¶ 13.)  After Plaintiffs lodged a
complaint with Moving Defendant, Moving Defendant installed a dehumidifier, and
Plaintiffs had to move most of their belongings to the living room.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 14-16.)  The conditions of the Property caused by the
leak and Moving Defendant’s repair attempts were particularly challenging for
Plaintiffs because at the time, Ms. Risner was around nine months
pregnant.  (See Complaint
¶ 18.)  Plaintiffs’ requests for
relocation or rent reduction were rejected by Moving Defendant.  (Complaint ¶ 20.) In late February 2023, days
after Ms. Risner, gave birth to Plaintiffs’ second child, a leak caused further
water damage to the Property.  (Complaint
¶ 22.)  Despite Plaintiffs’ repeated
requests for repairs and inquiries about being temporarily relocated, Moving
Defendant did not undertake any repairs to address the source of the leak, and
as a result, on or around March 22, 2023, Plaintiffs notified Moving Defendant
that they would be vacating the Property within 30 days.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 23-34.)  
 
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the third,
seventh, and tenth causes of action on the grounds that the Complaint fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.  Moving Defendant also filed a motion to
strike (the “Motion”) portions of the Complaint concerning punitive damages.
 
DEMURRER
Meet and Confer
The meet and
confer requirement has been met for the Demurrer and Motion.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  Demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored.  (Chen v. Berenjian (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.)  A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.  (Id.)   A
demurrer will be sustained without leave to amend if there exists no reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 

 
Third Cause of Action
To state a claim
for breach of the implied warranty of habitability, a plaintiff must allege:
(1) a material defective condition affecting the habitability of the premise;
(2) notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the
tenant discovers the condition; (3) the landlord was given a reasonable time to
correct the deficiency; and (4) resulting damages.  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)  With appropriate pleadings of fact, a tenant may state a
cause of action in tort against his landlord for damages resulting from a
breach of the implied warranty of habitability. 
(Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 918-19.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that the tortious breach of the
warranty of habitability claim is duplicative of the negligence cause of action
and contractual breach of warranty claims. 
As alleged, the negligence and tortious breach of the implied warranty
of habitability claims identify slightly varying sources of duty.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 51, 65.)  The Court finds that the tortious breach of
the warranty of habitability claim is not wholly redundant to other claims
alleged in the Complaint and therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the third
cause of action. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance
            The
Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance provides, in part:
Tenant Harassment shall be
defined as a landlord's knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a
specific tenant or tenants that causes detriment and harm, and that serves no
lawful purpose, including, but not limited to, the following actions: 
… 
 
2.¿¿¿Failing to perform and
timely complete necessary repairs and maintenance required by Federal, State,
County, or local housing, health, or safety laws; or failure to follow
applicable industry standards to minimize exposure to noise, dust, lead paint,
asbestos, or other building materials with potentially harmful health impacts. 
… 
¿  ¿ 
8.¿¿¿Threatening to or engaging
in any act or omission which interferes with the tenant's right to use and
enjoy the rental unit or whereby the premises are rendered unfit for human
habitation and occupancy. 
… 
¿ 
16.¿¿¿Other repeated acts or
omissions of such significance as to substantially interfere with or disturb
the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of a tenant(s) and that cause, are likely
to cause, or are committed with the objective to cause a tenant(s) to surrender
or waive any rights in relation to such tenancy. 
 
(LAMC §§ 45.33, subds. (2), (8),
(16).) 
 
            The
Complaint adequately alleges a claim for violations of the Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance.  The Complaint
alleges that Moving Defendant failed to complete repairs, and ultimately
ignored Plaintiffs’ requests for repairs, despite being aware of the heightened
inconvenience the leak caused Plaintiffs after the birth of their second
child.  The Court therefore OVERRULES the
Demurrer to the seventh cause of action. 
 
Tenth
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
To state a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a
plaintiff must allege: (1) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous behavior with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the severe emotional distress. 
(Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)  Conduct is considered extreme and outrageous
when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.  (Id.)  Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant: (1) abuses a position that gives him power over a plaintiff’s
interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through emotional
distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably when the conduct is likely
to result in mental distress and illness. 
(Agarwal v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946.)  Whether conduct is extreme or outrageous is
generally a question of fact.  (See
Barker v. Fox & Associates (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 333, 356.)
 
The Court finds that the Complaint sufficiently alleges a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
The Complaint alleges that Moving Defendant repeatedly failed to
permanently repair the leak at the Property and ultimately disregarded
Plaintiffs’ renewed complaints about water damage and the disarray caused by
Moving Defendant’s repair attempts.  The
Complaint also alleges that Moving Defendant disregarded Plaintiffs’ requests
despite knowing that Plaintiffs’ vulnerability to the conditions at the
Property was exacerbated by Ms. Risner’s pregnancy and the birth of Plaintiffs’
second child.  The Court therefore
OVERRULES the Demurrer to the tenth cause of action.
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
Legal
Standard
A motion to strike either: (1) strikes any
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes
any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)
 
 
 
 
Punitive
Damages        
A plaintiff may
recover punitive damages in an action for breach of an obligation not arising
from contract when the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  Malice is conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.) 
Oppression is defined as despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  
 
The Court finds
that the Complaint sufficiently alleges conduct to warrant an award of punitive
damages, such as Moving Defendant’s disregard of Plaintiffs’ complaints and
requests despite its awareness of Plaintiffs’ vulnerability.  (See Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101
Cal.App.3d 903, 920.  The Court
therefore DENIES the Motion.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 6th day of December 2023
 
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 
 
 