  Case Number:  22STCV34229    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
ELYSIAN
  HEALTH LLC; MODERN MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS, INC.; and ZACHARY AMENT, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
justin white;
  applied approach services, inc.; gerry van nortwick; deena manion; david
  bifulco; priya martindale; et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 22STCV34229
 
 Hearing Date: October 31, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer to the third
  amended complaint



 
Procedural
Background        
            On October 24, 2022, Plaintiffs
Elysian Health LLC (“Elysian”), Modern Management Solutions, Inc. (“MM”) and
Zachary Ament (“Ament”) filed the instant breach of fiduciary action regarding
the management of Elysian.  
On November 3, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint against Defendants Justin White (“White”), Applied
Approach Services, Inc. (“Applied”), Gerry Van Nortwick (“Van Nortwick”), Deena
Manion (“Manion”), David Bifulco (“Bifulco”), and Priya Martindale (“Martindale”)
(collectively “Defendants”).  On February
28, 2022, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint with leave to amend.  (Order
2/28/23.)
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Elysian, MM,
and Ament filed a Second Amended Complaint against Defendants.  On July 31, 2023, the Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint with leave to amend.  (Order 7/31/23.)
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs MM and
Ament (jointly “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) against Defendants, nominal defendant Elysian, LAVN Investment QSST U/A
DTD 9/1/2009, and Lisa A. Van Nortwick.  The
TAC asserts twelve causes of action for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty by MM
against White, Van Nortwick, Manion, Bifulco, and Martindale, (2) Enforcing Member/Manager
Rights by MM against White, Elysian, LAVN Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, and
Lisa A. Van Nortwick, (3) Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets by Elysian
against White, LAVN Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, and Lisa A. Van Nortwick,
(4) Challenging Election or Appointment of Director by MM and Ament against
White, (5) Compel Payment of Paid Dividends by MM against White and Van
Nortwick, (6) Appointment of Provisional Director by MM against White and Van
Nortwick, (7) Removal of Dishonest and Fraudulent Director by MM against White
and Van Nortwick, (8) Accounting by Plaintiffs MM and Ament against White, Van
Nortwick, LAVN Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, and Lisa A. Van Nortwick, (9)
Declaratory Relief by Plaintiffs MM and Ament against Defendants White, Van
Nortwick, Applied, Elysian, LAVN Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, and Lisa A.
Van Nortwick, (10) Reformation by MM and Ament against White, Van Nortwick, LAVN
Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, and Lisa A. Van Nortwick, (11) Cancellation
of Instruments by MM and Ament against White, Van Nortwick, LAVN Investment
QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009, and Lisa A. Van Nortwick, and (12) Defamation by Ament
against White.
On September 14, 2023, Defendants Justin
White, Applied, Manion, Bifulco, and Martindale (collectively “Moving
Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer to the TAC.  On September 21, 2023, Defendant Van Nortwick
filed a notice of joinder to Moving Defendants’ demurrer.  On October 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.  On October 24, 2023, Moving
Defendants filed a reply.
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint
            The TAC alleges that:
            Elysian is a member managed Limited
Liability Company.  (TAC ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff MM is the manager of Elysian and
holds a 42% membership interest in Elysian. 
(TAC ¶¶ 1, 19.)  Plaintiff Ament
is the principal and shareholder of MM and a director of Elysian.  (TAC ¶ 2.) 
Defendants Applied, White, and LAVN Investment QSST U/A DTD 9/1/2009 by
and through its trustee Lisa A. Van Nortwick are the other members of
Elysian.  (TAC ¶¶ 4-6, 19.)
            Defendant Van Nortwick and Plaintiff
Ament are directors of Elysian.  (TAC ¶¶
2, 6.)  Defendant White is the principal
and a shareholder of Applied.  (TAC ¶ 5.)  Defendant White also is CFO and co-CEO of
Elysian and claims to be a director of Elysian. 
(TAC ¶¶ 5, 77.)
            Defendant Manion is a Licensed
Clinical Social Worker who in January 29, 2020 entered into a contract with
Plaintiff Elysian under “which MANION would be paid $20,000 per month and be
privy to ELYSIAN’s private and confidential information, and dutybound to
preserve the confidentiality of such information, as well as having access to
ELYSIAN’s patients and finances, such that MANION owed fiduciary duties to
ELYSIAN at all times relevant herein. MANION’s title at the time of hire was
Chief Clinical Officer. In or about February 2022 MANION was promoted to Executive
Director with a $3000.00 per month raise.” 
(TAC ¶¶ 7-8.)  
            Defendant Bifulco is “an employee of
ELYSIAN serving in the position of Admissions Director since approximately
April, 2018 whereby he would have control over and direct contact with patients
of ELYSIAN, and had knowledge and authority to discuss finances with patients
as well as assessing other factors for admitting them into ELYSIAN
programs.”  (TAC ¶ 9.)  In February 2022, Bifulco was promoted to
Chief Operating Officer.  (TAC ¶ 9.)  
            Defendant Martindale is “an employee
of ELYSIAN as Director of Operations and Human Resources since approximately
June 2020 whereby she would have control over and direct contact with patients
of ELYSIAN, and had knowledge and authority as to review company financials,
approve payroll, oversee compliance, and handle all company files.”  (TAC ¶ 10.)
            “In or about 2020, WHITE began a
campaign of attempting to usurp control and oversight of operations within
EYLSIAN, under the manager’s authority, initially when Tiga Systems and Bradly
Athens were managers, and later when MM became manager. As a result of the
death of its CEO, WHITE became involved in day to day operations and handling
some access to company databases, and convinced AMENT to have him acquire
signature rights on ELYSIAN’s bank account. Over time, without AMENT’s
knowledge, WHITE was controlling access to information and limiting others’
access to information within ELYSIAN.”  (TAC
¶ 24.) 
            “Beginning in 2020 and continuing to
the present, Plaintiffs, having learned on information and belief, allege that
WHITE engaged in self-dealing, in converting ELYSIAN funds for his own purposes
and for his company APPLIED. While WHITE and AMENT and Wells under MM were
working and drawing salaries for work being performed by WHITE”s entity APPLIED
and by MM, VAN NORTWICK was not drawing a salary. When Wells passed away, MM
continued to perform the tasks previously being performed by Wells, yet WHITE
surreptitiously convinced AMENT that such salary would be withdrawn requiring
AMENT to take a lower combined salary than before. WHITE also claimed that his
own salary should be increased, and purported to create improperly noticed
meetings of the Board that would approve such increases.”  (TAC ¶ 40.) 
“In fact, WHITE obtained the assistance of VAN NORTWICK by claiming to
increase distributions from the Company cashflow so that VAN NORTWICK, who also
had a Board position, would receive financial compensation even though he was
not working at ELYSIAN.”  (TAC ¶ 41.)  
            “On or about August 25, 2022,
believing they had obtained control of ELYSIAN, WHITE and VAN NORTWICK
orchestrated a plan of improperly denying AMENT and MM access to ELYSIAN’s
offices, and access to all company emails, books, files, financials and bank
accounts.”  (TAC ¶ 42.)
            “In or about 2022, ELYSIAN lost its
very important certificate for in-patient Substance abuse with the California
Department of Healthcare Services (‘DHCS’) because there was a patient death at
one of its facilities, which as a result meant that the insurance providers
that paid ELYSIAN would no longer pay for their patients enrolled in such
services. ELYSIAN was advised by its regulatory counsel that the loss of the
In-patient would not affect their outpatient services or certification, which
proved to be false as Plaintiffs learned in or about August/September
2022.”  (TAC ¶ 43.)      
            “Unbeknownst to AMENT at the time,
WHITE and VAN NORTWICK had already initiated and committed themselves to a plan
going forward which would jeopardize ELYSIAN’s existence and its’ [sic] ability
to properly provide its services going forward, or to ever obtain a DHCS
certificate in the future.”  (TAC ¶ 46.)  “[A]fter ELYSIAN’s loss of their DHCS
certificate, WHITE acted contrary to the best interest of the company and
planned to
engage in unethical and illegal behavior to re-obtain a license against Plaintiffs
[sic] approval. In doing so, WHITE also prevented Plaintiffs access to engage
in any activities in its position as manager. This prevented Plaintiffs from
being able to reconstruct the company’s business model and keep the company
afloat after the loss of the license. Plaintiffs were then notified that the
company was experiencing a 30-50% decrease in all revenue.”  (TAC ¶ 47.) 

            “Plaintiff AMENT and MM tried to
access ELYSIAN’s accounting database to assess the expenses and other matters
in order to adjust to the new change by updating budgets, addressing changing
needs to hiring, potential layoffs and salary adjustments, and tried to set up
meetings with management and with staff to address necessary changes to ELYSIAN
business model and programs after the September 30, 2022 loss of its
certificate. However, WHITE resisted this inquiry and tried to prevent MM from
conducting its duties as manager because WHITE did not want staff and other
members of Elysian’s management team to know about the loss of the certificate,
among other reasons.”  (TAC ¶ 48.)  “WHITE had restricted or removed AMENT and
MM’s access to company documents, financials, including cutting off AMENT’s
access to his own company email account. As a result, AMENT was unable to retrieve
any of his past sent or received emails to any person, including to employees
of ELYSIAN. WHITE also removed AMENT as a signatory from the company’s bank
accounts and stopped his salary.”  (TAC ¶
49.)
            “WHITE and VAN NORTWICK, recognizing
that MM and AMENT’s actions would undermine their ulterior plans for their own
benefit but to the detriment and potential destruction of ELYSIAN, then
attempted to remove MM as manager of ELYSIAN, but did so improperly, and sent
various notices and claims that were illegal, contradictory, and purported to
conduct Board meetings improperly.”  (TAC
¶ 50.)  
            “On or about September 22, 2022,
Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a letter to WHITE formally objecting to and disputing
the improper actions taken in relation to ELYSIAN and MM.”  (TAC ¶ 51.)
            “Plaintiffs are informed and believe
that defendants and each of them have started a competing business with that of
ELYSIAN’s intending to divert ELYSIAN’s business, goodwill and
operations to their competing business, by actually taking actions that would
jeopardize ELYSIAN’s existence, while illegally maintaining a stream of income
to ELYSIAN which they would divert through improper distributions and salary
payments for themselves. Plaintiffs are further informed and believe that WHITE
and VAN NORTWICK intended to form the competing business to apply to DHCS for a
new certificate under their own names, and purporting to transfer ELYSIAN’s
existing business and patients to the new business when the certificate was
obtained, thereby depriving Plaintiffs of their ownership interest in ELYSIAN,
and at the same time jeopardizing ELYSIAN’s future ability to conduct the same
business, or preventing any of its members from ever obtaining DHCS
certificates in the future.”  (TAC ¶ 52.)
 
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)
Moving Defendants
have satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.  (Burns Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff
Ament’s Standing
            Moving Defendants assert that Plaintiff
Ament lacks standing as to the fourth, and eighth through eleventh causes of
action. 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 367 provides that
“[e]very action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest,
except as otherwise provided by statute.” 
(CCP § 367.)  “Only the real party
in interest has ‘an actual and substantial interest in the subject matter of
the action,’ and stands to be ‘benefited or injured’ by a judgment in the
action.”  (City of Santa Monica v.
Stewart (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 43, 60.)  
            “Shareholders may bring two types of
actions, ‘a direct action filed by the shareholder individually (or on behalf
of a class of shareholders to which he or she belongs) for injury to his or her
interest as a shareholder,’ or a ‘derivative action filed on behalf of the
corporation for injury to the corporation for which it has failed or refused to
sue.’ [Citation.] ‘The two actions are mutually exclusive: i.e., the right of
action and recovery belongs either to the shareholders (direct action) or to
the corporation (derivative action).” [Citation.] When the claim is derivative,
the ‘shareholder is merely a nominal plaintiff.... Even though the corporation
is joined as a nominal defendant ..., it is the real party in interest to which
any recovery usually belongs.’ [Citation.]” 
(Schuster v. Gardner (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 305, 311–312.)  “Thus, ‘the action is derivative, I.e., in
the corporate right, if the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the
corporation, or to the whole body of its stock or property without any
severance or distribution among individual holders, or if it seeks to recover
assets for the corporation or to prevent the dissipation of its assets.’” (Jones
v. H. F. Ahmanson & Co. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 93, 106.)  
            However, “[a] single cause of action
by a shareholder can give rise to derivative claims, individual claims, or
both.”  (Goles v. Sawhney (2016)
5 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1019 Fn.3.)  Further,
there is no requirement that the alleged wrong be unique to that plaintiff or
that the alleged wrong affects any number of shareholders.  Rather, “[i]f the injury is not incidential
[sic] to an injury to the corporation, an individual cause of action
exists.”  (Jones, supra, 1
Cal.3d at p.107.)
            “Because a corporation exists as a
separate legal entity, the shareholders have no direct cause of action or right
of recovery against those who have harmed it. The
shareholders may, however, bring a derivative suit to enforce the corporation's
rights and redress its injuries when the board of directors fails or refuses
to do so.”  (Grosset, supra, 42
Cal.4th at p.1108, [italics added].)  Moreover,
a shareholder cannot initiate a derivative suit without first
informing the directors about the action and making a reasonable effort to
induce them to commence suit themselves or otherwise redress the wrong, unless
such efforts would be “useless” or “futile.” 
(Corp. Code, § 800(b)(2); Corp. Code, § 2900(d)(2).)  A plaintiff must allege compliance.  (Ibid.) “Failure to comply with the
requirements of the statute deprives a litigant of standing.”  (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 127.)
            Here, Plaintiff MM is the only
plaintiff that is a member of Elysian and alleges that it would be futile to
inform the directors and use reasonable efforts to induce the Directors White
and Van Nortwick to commence suit against themselves.  (TAC ¶¶ 1, 11.)  However, Plaintiff Ament is merely the
principal and a shareholder of Plaintiff MM and serving as a director of
Elysian on behalf of Plaintiff MM.  (TAC
¶ 3.)  Thus, Plaintiff, who is not a
member of Elysian cannot bring a derivative claim on behalf of Elysian.  (Sirott v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 371, 381–382 [“section 17709.02 requires both
‘contemporaneous’ membership—meaning the party seeking to bring a derivative
claim was a member in the LLC at the time of the challenged transaction (or
became a member by gaining an interest from a party who was a member at the
time of the transaction)—and ‘continuous’ membership—meaning the party was a member
throughout the litigation of a derivative claim.”].)   
            The fourth cause of action challenging the
election or appointment of a director is based on the allegation that the “acts
and omissions of WHITE, …, demonstrate that he has abandoned any duty or obligation
to the company, that he manipulates the company for his own personal
purposes, and therefore, warrant and mandate his removal as a member.”  (TAC ¶ 76, [italics added].)  This allegation makes clear that the alleged
harm is to Elysian.  The fourth cause of
action is therefore a derivative claim brought on behalf of Elysian.  As a non-member of Elysian, Plaintiff Ament
lacks standing to bring this claim individually as asserted.
            The eighth cause of action seeks an
accounting of Elysian’s company books and data. 
(TAC ¶ 98.)  “A cause of action
for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is
due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.”  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)  
            Here, Plaintiffs allege that an
accounting is needed “of the financial transactions pursuant to which
defendants have taken money for their personal use, used it to pay their
personal expenses, or have used ELYSIAN funds to pay for expenses
disguised as work related when in fact they were benefitting only these select
defendants. Because Plaintiffs do not have complete access to the underlying
financial records and backup information, they cannot determine the exact amounts
owed or amounts which need to be equalized to MM without a detailed
accounting.”  (TAC ¶ 99, [Italics
added].)  As alleged, the balance due is
owed to Elysian and to MM derivatively as a member and is therefore a
derivative claim.  Thus, Plaintiff Ament
– who is not a member of Elysian – does not have standing to bring the eighth
cause of action.
            The ninth cause of action seeks
declaratory relief claiming that “[a] dispute has ensued between the Plaintiffs
and Defendants with respect to the interpretation, enforceability, and the
rights, duties, obligations and benefits of each party to the Operating
Agreement and the rights of the board members of ELYSIAN.”  (TAC ¶ 103.) 
Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that there is a “dispute whether and to
what extent Plaintiffs have the right to have two of the four board members
appointed by Plaintiffs, whether MM is and remains the manager, the conditions
under which the board or members may change the manager of ELYSIAN, and the
authority of defendants to issue distributions. There is also a dispute as to
whether ELYSIAN can form a business relationship with a new company whose
certification is tainted by the prior revocation of certification of ELYSIAN
such that all of ELYSIAN’s ongoing business and revenue would be jeopardized.”  (TAC ¶ 104.)  Plaintiffs allege that the right to appoint
board members belongs to MM as the manager. 
(TAC ¶ 21.)  Similarly, Plaintiff Ament
does not dispute whether MM is the manager. 
However, as Plaintiff Ament is a board member, “the conditions under
which the board or members may change the manager of ELYSIAN” is under dispute
by Ament in his individual capacity.  Plaintiff
Ament has standing to assert the ninth cause of action.
            The tenth and eleventh causes of
action seek reformation of “Action by Written Consent dated March 28, 2020
which defendants, WHITE, LAVN and AMENT executed, which document defies the
Operating Agreement was not properly executed by all members and should be
cancelled or reformed; and its corresponding Action by Written Consent of March
22, 2022 executed by WHITE, AMENT, LAVN and MM as Manager only; the minutes of
the special board meeting on November 26, 2019 allegedly attended by WHITE and
VAN NORTWICK as well as Bradley Athens who was affiliated with a former member,
which took place days after the passing of Justin Wells, and others whose
existence is being ascertained in this case.” 
(TAC ¶ 109.)  As alleged,
Plaintiff Ament is a party to some of the alleged agreements that Plaintiffs
seek reformed or cancelled.  Moreover, “‘[t]he
right to reformation of an instrument is not restricted to the original parties
to the transaction [citation].’”  (Panterra
GP, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 697, 714.)  Rather, “Civil Code section 3399 permits
reformation of a contract upon application of any aggrieved party.”  (Ibid.)  Similarly, cancellation of an instrument only
requires those to have been injured by it. 
(Civ. Code, § 3412.)
            Here, Plaintiffs allege that they
have been harmed by the various agreements. 
(TAC ¶¶ 111, 115.) As such, Plaintiffs have standing to seek this remedy
for the tenth and eleventh causes of action.
            In sum, Plaintiff Ament lacks standing
as to the fourth and eighth causes of action but has standing as to the ninth
through eleventh causes of action. 
Accordingly, Moving Defendants demurrer is SUSTAINED for lack of
standing as to Plaintiff Ament as to the fourth and eighth causes of action.
 
First
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            Moving Defendants contend that
Plaintiff MM fails to sufficiently allege a breach of fiduciary duty against
Defendants Martindale, Manion, and Bifulco.
The elements of a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) the
breach of that duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.’”  (IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 630, 646, [internal citation omitted].)  “‘[B]efore a person can be charged with a
fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and
for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes
that undertaking as a matter of law.’” (City of Hope Nat'l Med. Ctr. v.
Genentech (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.) 
Facts giving rise to a confidential, fiduciary or trustee relationship
must be pled, and a “bare allegation that defendants assumed a fiduciary
relationship” is a conclusion. (Zumbrun v. Univ. of So. Cal. (1972) 25
Cal.App.3d 1, 13.)
“‘Corporate officers and directors are not
permitted to use their position of trust and confidence to further their
private interests. While technically not trustees, they stand in a fiduciary
relation to the corporation and its stockholders’ [Citation.]”  (Angelica Textile Services, Inc. v. Park
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 495, 509.)  
Here, the claim for breach of fiduciary
duty is brought by Plaintiff MM derivatively on behalf of Elysian.  Manion is the Chief Clinical Officer for
Elysian and was promoted to Executive Director for Elysian.  (TAC ¶ 8.) 
Bifulco is the Chief Operating Officer for Elysian.  (TAC ¶ 9.) 
Martindale is the Director of Operations and Human Resources for
Elysian.  (TAC ¶ 10.)  Manion, Bifulco, and Martindale are each corporate
officers and/or directors of Elysian and as high-level employees of Elysian owe
a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff MM as a member and to the company – Elysian – in
their roles.  (Angelica Textile
Services, Inc., supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at p.509.)  However, there are little to no substantive
allegations regarding any alleged breach.
Rather, the TAC alleges that “Plaintiffs
are informed and believe that VAN NORTWICK, MANION, BIFULCO AND MARTINDALE
knowingly support and enable WHITE to engage in the self-dealing and
wrong-doing WHITE has engaged in, because WHITE ensures that benefits inure to
each of their benefit as well, and because WHITE and VAN NORTWICK have plans
and designs in conjunction with MANION, BIFULCO AND MARTINDALE to usurp
ELYSIAN’s assets and business for their own personal benefit and to the
detriment of ELYSIAN in establishing a new company to replace ELYSIAN and take
over its assets and business. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that VAN
NORTWICK, MANION, BIFULCO AND MARTINDALE have knowingly empowered WHITE to take
all the actions harming ELYSIAN and Plaintiffs, and expressly supported WHITE
by in improper votes of the Board as well as actions WHITE has taken to
marginalize and restrict AMENT and MM’s access to ELYSIAN information, and by
assuring WHITE that the financial misdealing will be overlooked and not pursued
by the Board or other executives and staff.” 
(TAC ¶ 57.)
“Plaintiff is further informed and
believes that defendants MANION and BIFULCO have each breached their fiduciary
duties to ELYSIAN by diverting business and patients of ELYSIAN and future
business prospects of ELYSIAN for the benefit of a new entity being formed by
WHITE and VAN NORTWICK, in exchange for being promised and receiving equity and
other financial benefits from the new entity. In addition, Plaintiffs are
informed and believe thereon alleging that these defendants, with no regard for
the ongoing sanctity of ELYSIAN, and with only the intent to divert ELYSIAN’s
business for their future entities, would regularly allow false information to
be circulated to new and prospective patients of ELYSIAN, would admit such
patients under incorrect treatment programs and bill them improperly with
insurance companies, all of which seriously jeopardizes ELYSIAN’s ongoing
status and ability to provide treatment facilities and further undermines
ELYSIAN’s ability to obtain future DHCS certificates, none of which concerned
these defendants since they were willing to sacrifice ELYSIAN’s long-term
existence in exchange for short term financial gains which monies are not being
distributed to ELYSIAN’s equity holders, but rather being used to pay expenses
and fund the new entity defendants intend to use going forward.”  (TAC ¶ 58.)
These allegations are insufficient.  As to Manion and Bifulco, the TAC alleges
that on information and belief they are diverting business and patients from
Elysian for their own personal gain. 
(TAC ¶ 58.)  While this would be a
breach of fiduciary duty, there are no facts alleged to support Plaintiffs’
belief that Manion and Bifulco are diverting business and patients from
Elysian.  “A ‘ “[p]laintiff may allege on information
and belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has
information leading him to believe that the allegations are true ’ ”
[Citation.], and thus a pleading made on information and belief is insufficient
if it ‘merely assert[s] the facts so alleged without alleging such information
that “lead[s] [the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.” ’
[Citation.] ”  (Gomes
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159.)  Plaintiffs’ claim that defendants Martindale,
Manion, and Bifulco “knowingly supported and enabled” Defendant White is
similarly defective.  (TAC ¶ 57.)  There is no allegation as to what actions
Martindale, Manion, and Bifulco undertook to support White.  Similarly, there are no facts alleged to
support Plaintiffs’ belief that Martindale, Manion, and Bifulco “knowingly
supported and enabled” Defendant White in some unspecified way.  In sum, the allegations against Martindale,
Manion, and Bifulco fail to allege any facts to support an alleged breach of
fiduciary duty.  As to Martindale, the
TAC fails to make any substantive allegations.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action
is SUSTAINED.
 
Fourth,
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Actions
            Moving Defendants contend that the
fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action fail because they are merely
remedies.  A cause of action must exist
for a claim for relief to be stated. 
(See Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719,
734.) 
            As to the fourth cause of action, Plaintiffs
seek the removal of Defendant White as a director and member of Elysian.  No clear statutory authority permits such an
action.  The cited authority -- Corporations
Code § 709 -- provides for suits to determine the validity of an election or
appointment of a director of a corporation -- not a director selected for limited
liability company pursuant to the operating agreement.  Moreover, though the Court has a power under
equity independent of statute to remove a corporate director, (Brown v.
North Ventura Road Development Co. (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 227, 232 [“Since
directors hold a position of trust, judicial power to remove them exists
independent of statute.”]), such relief would have to be warranted by a
substantive claim, such as for breach of fiduciary duty.  Accordingly, the fourth cause of action is
merely a prayer for specific equitable relief -- not a substantive claim.
            The sixth cause of action seeks
appointment of a provisional director.  Under
Corporations Code § 308, an action can be brought to appoint a provisional
director to the board of directors for a corporation in the case of a
deadlock.  No similar provision applies
to limited liability companies.  To the
extent that such a request may be made for an LLC, such a request would be a
remedy based on the Court’s power in equity. 
(See e.g., Jarvis v. Jarvis (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 113, 144.)  Accordingly, as a remedy, such a request is
not itself a cause of action.
            Finally, the seventh cause of action
-- like the fourth cause of action -- seeks removal of White as a
director.  As noted above, such relief
would have to be warranted by a substantive claim such as for breach of
fiduciary duty.  Accordingly, the seventh
cause of action is merely a prayer for specific equitable relief -- not a
substantive claim.
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Fifth
Cause of Action for Payment of Dividend
            Moving Defendants contend that the fifth
cause of action to compel payment of paid dividends is insufficiently alleged.
            “‘The decision concerning the
declaration of a dividend where a legal dividend fund is available rests within
the sole discretion of the board of directors. Courts are reluctant to
interfere with the exercise of the directors' business judgment unless the
withholding is fraudulent, oppressive or totally without merit.’
[Citation.]”  (State Farm Mutual
Automobile Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 434, 450.)  However, once a dividend has been lawfully
declared, a dividend cannot be revoked or withheld and “[e]ach holder of common
stock acquired a vested right to the payment of the dividend, which cannot be
defeated by later revocation of the dividend without his consent.”  (Meyers v. El Tejon Oil & Refining Co.
(1946) 29 Cal.2d 184, 188.)
            Here, the TAC alleges that “WHITE
has taken for himself and paid to VAN NORTWICK funds, assets and property of
ELYSIAN which Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that have no proper
substantiation other than to constitute distributions, even though the
proportionate share has not been provided to other members.”  (TAC ¶ 80.) 
Thus, as alleged, White declared dividends but failed to make payment to
Plaintiff MM.  While made on information
and belief, some facts are alleged to support this allegation – i.e., that
White took these assets, and there is no other legitimate basis for it.  
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
 
Tenth
and Eleventh Causes of Action: Reformation and Cancellation of Contracts
            Moving Defendants assert that the
tenth and eleventh causes of action fail because they are insufficiently
alleged.  
            “When, through fraud or a mutual
mistake of the parties, or a mistake of one party, which the other at the time
knew or suspected, a written contract does not truly express the intention of
the parties, it may be revised on the application of a party aggrieved, so as
to express that intention, so far as it can be done without prejudice to rights
acquired by third persons, in good faith and for value.”  (Civ. Code, § 3399.)  “‘To prevail on a claim to cancel an
instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due
to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious
injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial alteration of one's
position.’ [Citations.]”  (Thompson v.
Ioane (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1193–1194.)
            Here, the tenth and eleventh causes
of action seek reformation of “Action by Written Consent dated March 28, 2020
which defendants, WHITE, LAVN and AMENT executed, which document defies the
Operating Agreement was not properly executed by all members and should be
cancelled or reformed; and its corresponding Action by Written Consent of March
22, 2022 executed by WHITE, AMENT, LAVN and MM as Manager only; the minutes of
the special board meeting on November 26, 2019 allegedly attended by WHITE and
VAN NORTWICK as well as Bradley Athens who was affiliated with a former member,
which took place days after the passing of Justin Wells, and others whose
existence is being ascertained in this case.” 
(TAC ¶ 109.)  Plaintiffs claim
that these agreements do not reflect the true intent of the parties and that
Plaintiff will suffer prejudice and pecuniary loss unless the agreements are
reformed.
            While these allegations are not
particularly specific, California follows a notice pleading standard, (See e.g., Morris v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279, 305, Fn. 14), and the
pleadings are generally liberally construed. 
(CCP § 452, [“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.”].)  Critically, these allegations do
identify three specific contracts and the basis for cancellation/reformation –
i.e., that these agreements are in violation of Elysium’s operating agreement –
and that Plaintiffs will suffer harm if these agreements are not reformed. 
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the ninth and tenth causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Defendant
Van Norwick’s Joinder to the Demurrer
            Plaintiff contends that Defendant
Van Norwick’s notice of joinder is untimely under Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.40(a), and violates California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1320.  
            “A person against whom a complaint
or cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the
complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (CCP § 430.40(a).)  “[S]ection 430.40 is permissive, not
mandatory, because it uses the term ‘may’ rather than ‘must.’”  (Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
742, 750.)  Further, a demurrer can be
heard regardless of procedural issues as “ ‘[t]here is no absolute right to
have a pleading stricken for lack of timeliness in filing where no question of
jurisdiction is involved, and where, as here, the late filing was a mere
irregularity [citation]; the granting or denial of the motion is a matter which
lies within the discretion of the court.’ [Citation.]”  (McAllister v. County of Monterey
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281–282.)
            Here, the claim that any challenges
to the pleading have been waived because the notice of joinder was filed and
served 31 days after service of the TAC is unavailing.  A pleading can be challenged at any
time.  (See e.g., Stoops v. Abbassi
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [“A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be
made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself.”].)  Further, Plaintiffs cannot claim any
prejudice as Plaintiffs never sought to enter default before the notice of
joinder was filed. 
            As to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1320, the notice of joinder specifies the correct hearing and
reservation date.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1320(c).)  Otherwise, the notice
of joinder incorporates the demurrer filed by Moving Defendants.  “[A] litigant may incorporate
previously filed documents and, where practicable, should file them with the
motion.  But a litigant is not required
to do so absent a rule precluding incorporation by reference.”  (Roth v. Plikaytis (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 283, 291.)  Plaintiffs do not
contend that Moving Defendants’ demurrer – which is incorporated by reference –
is insufficient.  Regardless, to the
extent the notice of joinder is procedurally improper, the Court is
nevertheless inclined to consider it to avoid the unnecessary duplicity of repetitive
motions brought on the same identical grounds.
            Accordingly, Defendant Van
Nortwick’s notice of joinder is granted.
 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)  
Here, the Court has previously sustained demurrers on similar grounds,
and it does not appear that either Plaintiff can successfully amend the
complaint as to the fourth cause of action, sixth cause of action, and seventh
causes of action, and it does not appear that Plaintiff Ament can successfully
amend the eighth cause of action. 
Accordingly, leave to amend is denied as to these claims.
As to the first cause of action against Defendants Martindale, Manion, and Bifulco as the Court
previously erroneously indicated that these claims may have been sufficiently
alleged, the Court finds it proper to provide Plaintiffs an opportunity to amend
this cause of action as to those defendants. 

 
CONCLUSIONS AND
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer by Defendant
Justin White, Applied Approach Services, Inc., Gerry Van Nortwick, Deena
Manion, David Bifulco, and Priya Martindale to the Third Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of
action by both Plaintiffs.  Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the eighth cause of action
as brought by Plaintiff Zachary Ament.
Defendants Deena Manion, David Bifulco,
and Priya Martindale’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
first cause of action.
Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise
OVERRULED.
Plaintiffs are to file an amended
complaint within twenty (20) days of notice of this order.
Moving Parties are to give notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED:
October ___, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court