 Case Number:  22STCV38064    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  73 10/01/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
AFTERPARTY HOLDINGS, INC. v. ULTIMATE
HOST LLC, et al. (22STCV38064)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Alan Hearty (Allen
Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP) 
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party:  Chad Wilcox (Wilcox Dunakin
Chrisopoulos, LLP)
 
demurrer AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
THE SECOND AMENDED complaint (filed 7/29/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint’s fifth and sixth causes
of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike punitive
damages against Defendants Nightfall
Realty, Inc., Parikh and Dangoor is GRANTED,
with 20 days leave to amend.   Defendants’ motion to strike the fifth cause
of action is MOOT. Defendants’ motion to strike the seventh cause of action is
DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December 6, 2022, Plaintiff Afterparty Holdings, Inc. filed this
action against Defendants Ultimate Host LLC (“Ultimate Host”), Nightfall Realty
Inc. (“Nightfall”), Mokhtar Jabli (“Jabli”), Sagar Paresh Parikh (“Parikh”) and
Daniel Dangoor (“Dangoor”).  
 
On
June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging the following
causes of action: 
C/A
1:  Unlawful Retention of Security Deposit; 
C/A
2:  Breach of Lease Agreement; 
C/A
3:  Breach of Cancellation of Lease; 
C/A
4:  Fraud against Defendants Ultimate
Host and Jabli;
C/A
5:  Fraud against Defendants Dangoor,
Parikh and Nightfall;
C/A
6:  Negligent Misrepresentation against Defendants
Dangoor, Parikh and Nightfall;
C/A
7:  Negligent Misrepresentation against Defendants
Ultimate Host and Jabli; 
C/A
8:  Professional Negligence;
C/A
9:  Common Count: Account Stated; and
C/A
10:  Conversion
 
The SAC alleges the following. On April 5, 2022, landlord Ultimate
Host, subleased a luxury residential property to Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Dangoor and Parikh who, acting as the
respective agent and broker of record for Ultimate Host, knew at the time of
the lease with Plaintiff that Ultimate Host did not have the right to possess
the Property for the period of time it subleased the Property to Plaintiff,
that Defendants would need to manufacture a reason for Plaintiff to dispossess
the Property before the end of the Lease, and that Ultimate Host had no
intention of returning Plaintiff’s deposit. (SAC, ¶¶ 16, 18.) Defendant
misrepresented the status of Plaintiff’s security deposit and purported
deductions therefrom that Ultimate Host improperly made. (SAC, ¶¶ 20, 23.) Plaintiff
alleges Defendants unlawfully kept Plaintiff’s $260,000 security deposit and
demanded that Plaintiff pay an additional $19,012.00 for purported damages
caused to the Property.  (SAC, ¶ 24.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew that the damages claimed were false and that
such representations were part of a scheme to defraud Plaintiff out of its
security deposit which funds had already been improperly spent. (SAC, ¶ 24.)
 
On July 29 2024, Defendants Nightfall Realty, Inc., Parikh and
Dangoor (collectively “Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer and motion to
strike, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s fifth
and sixth causes of action fail to allege sufficient facts and are uncertain 
o  
Plaintiff's Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentations causes of
action fail to specifically allege facts to establish that Defendants made any
misrepresentation
o  
As to Nightfall Realty Group and Dangoor, the SAC fails to allege
facts sufficient to establish how a real estate agent and broker have any legal
obligation to guarantee Ultimate Host's performance under the Sublease or the
Cancellation of Lease agreement. The SAC fails to sufficiently allege
Defendants' involvement and any misrepresentations they allegedly made during
these legal negotiations.
·       Defendants
move to strike punitive damages because Plaintiff has not alleged fraud,
oppression or malice. Defendants also move to strike the fifth and seventh
causes of action arguing that Plaintiff improperly amended the SAC to add these
causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing that the SAC sufficiently
sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action and that the motion to strike
should be denied. 
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action and that the motion to
strike should be granted.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating he sent
an email to Plaintiffs’ counsel identifying the alleged deficiencies in the SAC,
but he did not receive a response. (Muriella Decl., ¶¶
4-5.) The Court finds the moving party did not satisfy its obligation to meet
and confer. While the parties did not meet and confer in person or by
telephone, the failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court
proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.      Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action: Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails
to plead its fifth and sixth causes of action. 
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged
fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud,
as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly
making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke,
what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include
“[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and
resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co.,
Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California
courts have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e.,
a duty to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances.  The first situation arises where providing
false information poses a risk of and results in physical harm to person or
property.  The second situation arises
where information is conveyed in a commercial setting for a business
purpose.”  (Friedman v. Merck &
Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)

 
The SAC alleges the following:
 
“On
information and belief, Parikh and Dangoor were also aware of Ultimate Host’s
and Nightfall Realty’s financial troubles and made representations to Plaintiff
to induce Plaintiff into entering the Lease and posting its excessive security
deposit of $260,000, knowing that such funds were not going to be kept in trust
for Plaintiff and instead were going to be used for either personal gain or to
improperly pay off creditors. On information and belief, Parikh and Dangoor
were aware of this sort of ponzi scheme in which by the end of the term of the
Lease, Defendants would either have manufactured a reason to keep Plaintiff’s
security deposit or would have been able to use funds from another tenant’s
security deposit to pay back Plaintiff. As further evidence of this awareness,
Dangoor, as dual agent for the Mahboubians and Ultimate Host, and Parikh, as
broker of record for Nightfall Realty, knew that under the Mahboubian Lease,
Ultimate Host
had no right to possess the Property after September 30, 2022, yet nevertheless
Dangoor and Parikh – through his company, Nightfall Realty – represented to
Plaintiff that Plaintiff could enter into a lease with Ultimate Host for a term
that exceeded Ultimate Host’s right to possess the Property. Then, as soon as
Plaintiff paid its security deposit and actually took possession, in April
2022, Parikh and Dangoor began communicating to Plaintiff knowingly false
claims regarding Plaintiff’s use of the Property and that it was in breach of
the Lease – all as part of a scheme to effect an early cancellation of the
Lease so that Plaintiff’s lease term would not come into conflict with the
Mahboubian Lease term. What is more, when it came time to negotiate the
Cancellation of Lease, Dangoor further made false representations regarding the
segregated account in which Plaintiff’s security deposit funds were held and
why this meant Defendants could not utilize a portion of Plaintiff’s security
deposit funds to pay for Plaintiff’s last monthly rental obligation. On
information and belief, Dangoor already knew at this time, in approximately
July through August 2022, that Plaintiff’s security deposit was not available
and had improperly been spent, yet made these misrepresentations to Plaintiff –
and specifically, David Fields – to induce Plaintiff into entering the
Cancellation of Lease. The final act of fraud came when in November 2022,
Parikh sent Plaintiff correspondence falsely claiming damage to the Property
which costs exceeded the amount of Plaintiff’s security deposit. Parikh, as broker
of record for Nightfall Realty that was the brokerage for both the Mahboubian
Lease and the Lease, knew that these claims were false, that Plaintiff had not
caused the alleged damage and that the purpose of his claims was to coverup the
successful scheme to steal Plaintiff’s security deposit.”
 
 (SAC, ¶ 62.)
 
First, while Defendants assert in the
Notice of Motion that Plaintiff’s fifth and sixth causes of action are
uncertain, Defendants fail to present any argument in support in the motion.
CCP section 430.10(f) provides that a pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous
and unintelligible. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or
she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) “The
objection of uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege sufficient
facts.” (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3
Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to what the pleader means by the
facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a
demurrer should not be sustained where the allegations of the complaint are
sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.”
(People v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) Here, the Court does not find
Plaintiff’s fifth and sixth causes of action are uncertain. 
 
However, the Court does not find Plaintiff has met the pleading
standard. Throughout the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants made
representations. Yet, Plaintiff has not alleged what they specifically said, whether
it was oral or written, and when it was said. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co.¿(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157 [“The requirement of
specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the
plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written”].) For example, Plaintiff states in
a conclusory manner that “Parikh and Dangoor made
representations to Plaintiff to induce Plaintiff into entering the Lease and
posting its excessive security deposit” and “Parikh and Dangoor began
communicating to Plaintiff knowingly false claims regarding Plaintiff’s use of
the Property and that it was in breach of the Lease.” (SAC, ¶ 62.) However,
Plaintiff does not clearly indicate what the specific representations were that
Defendants allegedly made, when or how that took place, such as
whether that was done orally or in person. Thus, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has sufficiently pled a fraudulent misrepresentation of
material fact by Defendants.
 
Therefore,
the demurrer as to the fifth and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend. 
 
D.    
Motion to
Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendants request the Court to strike
portions of the SAC as follows:
1.      The fifth
cause of action for Fraud in its entirety;
2.      The seventh
cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation in its entirety;
3.      SAC, ¶ 54,
lines 9-10, “On information and belief, Defendants are guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice, for which Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive damages, in
addition to the other damages alleged herein.” 
4.      SAC, ¶ 59,
lines 4-6, “Accordingly, Parikh and Dangoor are guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice, for which Plaintiffs are entitled to exemplary and punitive damages, in
addition to the other damages alleged herein.”
5.      SAC, ¶ 4 from
the Prayer of Relief, “For punitive damages sufficient to punish Defendants and
deter others from engaging in such wrongdoing.”
 
a.      
Punitive
Damages 
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues it is entitled to punitive damages against Defendants Nightfall Realty, Inc., Parikh and Dangoor based on its fraud cause of action. However, as discussed above, the
Court finds Plaintiff has failed to plead facts sufficient to state a cause of
action for fraud against Defendants Nightfall Realty, Inc., Parikh and
Dangoor. Therefore,
Plaintiff has failed to set forth allegations that would warrant punitive
damages against these Defendants.
 
b.     
Fifth and
Seventh Causes of Action
 
Defendants also move to strike the fifth cause of action for Fraud in its entirety and the seventh
cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation in its entirety, arguing that
Plaintiff improperly added these causes of action after the Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer. When a court grants leave to amend after sustaining a
demurrer, leave to amend is limited to the causes of action to which the
demurrer was sustained. (People v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal. App. 2d 770,
785-786.)
 
As discussed above, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
fifth cause of action for Fraud. Therefore, Defendants’ motion to strike this
cause of action is moot. 
 
Nevertheless, the Court does not find that Plaintiff improperly
added the seventh cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation. In its FAC,
Plaintiff had pled a cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation against
all Defendants. In its SAC, Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for Negligent
Misrepresentation is pled against Defendants Nightfall Realty, Inc., Parikh and
Dangoo and its sixth cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation is pled
against Defendants Ultimate Host and
Jabli. Defendants do not cite to any authority in support of their argument
that the seventh cause of action should be stricken on this ground. 
 
In sum, Defendants’ motion to strike punitive
damages against Defendants Nightfall
Realty, Inc., Parikh and Dangoor is GRANTED.
Defendants’ motion to strike the fifth cause of action is MOOT. Defendants’ motion
to strike the seventh cause of action is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint’s
fifth and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendants’
motion to strike punitive damages against Defendants Nightfall
Realty, Inc., Parikh and Dangoor is GRANTED, with 20 days leave to
amend. Defendants’ motion to strike the fifth cause of action is MOOT.
Defendants’ motion to strike the seventh cause of action is DENIED.