 Case Number:  22STCV33073    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  73 10/01/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
THE CHEMICAL TOXIN WORKING GROUP INC.
v. CALIFORNIA OLIVE RANCH, INC. et al.
(22STCV33073)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Peter Sato (Poulsen
Law PC)
Counsel
for Defendants: Thomas Donnelly (Jones Day)
 
MOTION TO APPROVE AND ENTER CONSENT JUDGMENT BETWEEN PLAINTIFF AND
DEFENDANT CALIFORNIA OLIVE RANCH, INC. (filed 07/25/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The
Motion to Approve and Enter Consent Judgment Between Plaintiff and Defendant
California Olive Ranch, Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This is a Proposition 65 case.  On October 7, 2022, Plaintiff
The Chemical Toxin Working Group Inc., dba Healthy Living Foundation Inc. filed
this action against Defendants California Olive Ranch, Inc., Albertsons
Companies, Inc., Alpha Beta Company, Bristol Farms, Fred Meyer, Inc., Gelson’s
Markets, Hughes Markets, Inc., dba Ralphs Maplebear Inc. dba Instacart, Ralphs
Grocery Company, Safeway Inc., Sprouts Farmers Market, Inc., Sprouts Farmers
Market, LLC, The Kroger Co., The Vons Companies, Inc., Vons Sherman Oaks, LLC,
Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart Stores East, LP for their alleged failure to provide
clear and reasonable warnings under Proposition 65 (violations of Health &
Safety Code § 25249.6).  On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants
manufactured, sold or produced products that contained chemicals that were
harmful to the public, in violation of the Health and Safety Code.
 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Approve and Enter
Consent Judgment Between Plaintiff and Defendant California Olive Ranch, Inc.
(“COR”). Plaintiff brings this motion on the grounds that the Parties have
entered a Proposed Consent Judgment that meets the requirements for court
approval pursuant to HSC § 25249.7(f)(4).
 
On September 17, 2024, Defendant COR filed a Joinder to Plaintiff’s
Motion. COR contends it does not admit any of the allegations, claims, or
characterizations in Plaintiff’s Motion but nevertheless joins in the Motion
and the request for the Court to approve and enter the proposed consent
judgment between the parties. 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff brings its motion pursuant to Cal. Health & Safety
Code § 25249.7(f)(4). Plaintiff argues that the Consent Judgment meets the
requirements of HSC § 25249.7(f)(4) because the injunctive relief complies with
Proposition 65, the attorneys’ fees are reasonable, and the civil penalties are
reasonable.  
 
A.     
Legal Standard
 
The Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986,
colloquially known as Proposition 65, was passed as a ballot initiative by the
California voters, and was designed to generally protect the public from
unknowing exposure to, harmful chemicals. (See generally 12¿Witkin, Summary of
California Law 10th (2005) Real Property, § 894, p. 1075.)¿ Health & Safety
Code (“H&SC”) § 25249.7 governs the enforcement of Proposition 65.¿
Proposition 65 has both public and private enforcement mechanisms.¿ (See
H&SC § 25249.7(c), (d).)¿ Violations are punishable by injunction (H&SC
§ 24259.7(a)) and civil penalty (H&SC § 24259.7(b)).¿ In the case of
private enforcement actions, parties may also recover attorney’s fees, pursuant
to the provisions in CCP § 1021.5, governing actions concerning important
rights affecting the public interest.¿¿¿ 
 
Health & Safety Code § 24259.7(f) governs the role of the
Court in approving settlements and consent judgments for private actions to
enforce Proposition 65.¿ Section 24259.7(f)(4) provides, in relevant part,
that:¿ 
¿ 
If there is a
settlement of an action brought by a person in the public interest under
subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall submit the settlement, other than a
voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is received¿from the defendant,
to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and the court may approve the
settlement only if the court makes all of the following findings:¿ 
¿ 
(a) The
warning that is required by the settlement complies with this chapter.¿ 
(b) The award
of attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law.¿ 
(c) The
penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b).¿ 
 
“To stamp a consent agreement with the judicial imprimatur, the
court must determine the proposed settlement is just….In¿the context of
Proposition 65 litigation, necessarily brought to vindicate the public
interest, the trial court also must ensure that its judgment serves the public
interest.”¿(Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America¿(2006)141
Cal.App.4th 46, 61.)¿ 
¿ 
B.     
Injunctive Relief
 
Plaintiff argues that the injunctive relief complies with
Proposition 65. 
 
First, pursuant to the Consent Judgment, Defendant has agreed any
Covered Products that Defendant Distributes into the State of California shall
either (1) have a clear and reasonable warning or (2) must have Non-Detect test
results for the Listed Chemical pursuant to the requirements of the Consent
Judgment. (Sato Decl., Ex. A. p. 5, § 3.1 et seq.). Defendant’s
Covered Products included in the Consent Judgment are: (1) Global Blend Oil,
(2) Arbosana Oil, (3) Robust Oil, (4) California Oil, (5) Mild Global Blend,
(6) Miller’s Blend, (7) California Olive Ranch Destination Series Extra Virgin
Olive Oil, and (8) California Olive Ranch Extra Virgin Olive Oil Everyday Blend. (Sato
Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.)
 
The Court finds the warning language is clear. Defendant has
agreed to put a warning on the product, which includes the word WARNING as well
as words indicating the product contains chemicals that can cause cancer and
reproductive harm. (Sato Decl., Ex. A, p. 5, § 3.4.2). Further the transmission
of the label is reasonable. The Consent Judgment requires warnings to be placed
(1) on the label of the Covered Product, or (2) on a placard, shelf tag, or
sign, provided that the statement is displayed with such conspicuousness, as
compared with other words, statements, or designs as to render it likely to be
read and understood by an ordinary individual prior to sale. (Sato Decl., Ex.
A, p. 6, §§ 3.4.3.2, 3.4.3.4). This warning is clear, reasonable and complies
with 27 CCR §§ 25607.1(a) and § 25602(a)(1, 3, and 4).
 
In addition, the Defendant has agreed to two additional remedial
actions, (1) a carbaryl ban - Defendant will not use carbaryl on any of the
ranches, orchards or any sort of land parcels that it controls, for growing
olives, and (2) Defendant will require certification from its olive and olive
oil suppliers in California and olive oil suppliers outside of California that
they or their suppliers, growers, farmers, manufacturers did not /do not use
carbaryl in growing of olives or manufacturing olive oil supplied to Defendant.
(Sato Decl., Ex. A, p. 5, §§ 3.1-3.2.) The Court finds that Defendant’s changes
in its practices are sufficient in lieu of a warning, including ensuring a
Non-Detect test result if they sell the products without warnings, that Defendant
will not use carbaryl for growing olives and that Defendant will require a
certification from its suppliers of olive oil that no carbaryl was used on the
olives. “Reformulation of a product, . . . or other changes in the defendant’s
practices that reduce or eliminate the exposure to a listed chemical, in lieu
of the provision of a warning, are presumed to confer a significant benefit on
the public.” (11 CCR § 3201(b)(2).) The Court finds that Defendant’s additional
remedial measures to reduce exposure to carbaryl confers a significant benefit
on the public.
 
C.     
Attorney’s Fees
 
Plaintiff argues that the attorney fees are reasonable. Here, Plaintiff
requests attorneys’ fees in the total amount of $277,205. Under 11 CCR §
3201(d), the hourly fees “should be those reasonable for attorneys of similar
skill and experience in the relevant market area.” Further, subsection (e)
provides that the time spent on the matter should be kept, and “describe the
nature of the work performed.” (11 CCR § 3201(e)). Here, Plaintiff asserts that
“this case was intensely negotiated in pre-litigation, involving voluntary
discovery and intense expert reports exchanges, and vigorously litigated for
4.5 years against 17 large corporate defendants represented by Big Law;
involves eight complex Products, with ingredients imported from three different
courtiers. (Plaintiff’s) two law firms, Poulsen Law P.C., and Khansari Law, six
experts only on the Plaintiff side, and staff.” (Motion 17: 20-24). Plaintiff
also provided a summary of the hours spent and a description of the tasks.
(Poulsen Suppl. Decl., Ex. A.) The Court finds Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees
reasonable.
 
D.    
Civil Penalties
 
Plaintiff contends that the civil penalties are reasonable. Under
HSC § 25249.7, courts look at certain factors when assessing the civil
penalties amount. The factors include:  
 
(A) The
nature and extent of the violation. 
(B) The
number of, and severity of, the violations. 
(C) The
economic effect of the penalty on the violator. 
(D) Whether
the violator took good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time
these measures were taken. 
(E) The
willfulness of the violator's misconduct. 
(F) The
deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty would have on both the
violator and the regulated community as a whole. 
(G) Any other
factor that justice may require.   
 
When looking at the factors, the civil penalties are reasonable.
First, the nature of the violation is high, as these products contain highly
toxic chemicals. Second, the severity of the violation is satisfied because Defendant
sold over 1 million units of the various Covered Products for a one year period
of October 7, 2021 to October 7, 2022 for a gross sales total in the millions
of dollars. (Sato Decl., ¶ 27). Third, this amount was obtained via arms-length
negotiations. Fourth, the injunctive remedial measures discussed above,
including the warning, non-detect test and carbaryl ban, will provide a broad
scope of protection to consumers. Fifth, the penalties as well as the fact that
this judgment would be public record would be a sufficient deterrent. Lastly,
the other factors include the fact that penalties, 75% of them, are paid to
OEHHA, Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, and the Additional
Settlement Payment to HLF may be offset to the civil penalty. (Motion 14: 4-15).  The
penalty amount should be found reasonable, as 75% (or $48,221.25) will be paid
to OEHHA and used to promote the health and safety of Californians. (Sato
Decl., Ex. A, p. 8, § 4.2.1). As to the Additional Settlement Payment, the
Defendant will pay HLF $43,500.00, which is viewed as an “offset” to the civil
penalty.
 
As to the Additional Settlement Payment, there are factors to
determine if the payment will serve the public interest. First, the payment
amount should no be more than 75% of the civil penalty. Here, the Consent
Judgment complies with 11 CCR § 3204(b)(1) because the ASP of $43,500 is less
than the $48,221.25 payment to OEHHA. (Sato Decl., Ex. A, p. 8, § 4.2.2)
Further, the Consent Judgment restricts use of the ASP to address the same
public harm as that allegedly caused by the Defendant in compliance with 11 CCR
§ 3204(b)(2). Plaintiff will ensure that the payment will be used for the
specific purpose as laid out in the Consent Judgment. (Steinman Decl., ¶ 26-27.)
 
E.     
Public Interest
¿ 
Lastly, the settlement must serve the public interest. Here, the
Covered Product initially had no warnings, but Defendant has now agreed to
provide a
warning or ensure testing with Non-Detect results. Thus, the Court finds this
settlement serves the public interest. (11 CCR § 3201(b)(1-2).)
 
In sum, the Court grants the Motion. The requirements set forth in
HSC § 25249.7 et seq. have been satisfied. Furthermore, the penalties assessed
are reasonable as well as the attorneys’ fees. Lastly, this settlement serves
the public interest. Therefore, the Motion to Approve and Enter Consent
Judgment Between Plaintiff and Defendant California Olive Ranch, Inc. is
GRANTED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The Motion to Approve and Enter Consent Judgment Between Plaintiff
and Defendant California Olive Ranch, Inc. is GRANTED.