  Case Number:  19STCV28259    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  73 10/01/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
FORTRESS SF1, LLC v. 274 BRANNAN STREET OWNER,
LLC, et al. (19STCV28259)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving party: 
Naeun Rim (Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/Cross-Complainant: Charles Jarrell (Allen Matkins Leck Gamble
Mallory & Natsis LLP); Christopher Tayback (Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan, LL)
 
(1)  
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL AS TO PLAINTIFF AND CROSS-DEFENDANT FORTRESS SF1, LLC (filed 9/04/2024) 
(2)   MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL AS TO CROSS-DEFENDANT
JASON WARNER (filed 9/04/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Fortress SF1, LLC and
Cross-Defendant Jason Warner are GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of lease
matter.  On August 9, 2019, Plaintiff Fortress SF1, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint.  The operative pleading is the Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) which asserts causes of action against Defendants 274 Brannan Street
Owner, LLC (“BSO”), CIM Group, L.P. (“CIM”), Harvest Properties, Inc.
(“Harvest”), and 274 Brannan Street Property Owner, LLC (“BSPO”) 
for: 
 
C/A 1:
Breach of Contract  
C/A 2:
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage  
C/A 3:
Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage  
C/A 4:
Declaratory Relief 
The TAC
provides in relevant part as follows.  BSO owned the commercial real
property located at 274 North Brannan Street, San Francisco, California (the
“Building”), which is now owned by BSPO.  Per an April 24, 2015 lease
agreement, Plaintiff leases space in the Building’s basement.  The lease
gives Plaintiff the right to operate a Meet-Me-Room (“MMR”), which is the
physical location within commercial buildings where internet service providers,
telecommunications providers, and data providers can make connections to
tenants and other service providers in one central location.  The operator
of the MMR earns monthly revenue in connection with sublease agreements with
occupants and tenants of the building.  Plaintiff alleges that BSO is
unhappy with Plaintiff collecting fees for MMR services and repeatedly breaches
the lease and has continuously sought to undermine Plaintiff’s exclusive right
to operate the MMR. 
On February
13, 2020, 274 BSO filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”)
against Plaintiff and Jason Warner (“Warner”) for:  
X-C/A
1: Breach of Contract  
X-C/A
2: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing  
X-C/A
3: Trespass  
X-C/A
4: Intentional Interference with Contract  
X-C/A
5: Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage  
X-C/A
6: Declaratory Relief 
 
On
September 4, 2024, counsel filed Motions to be Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Fortress SF1, LLC and Cross-Defendant Jason Warner each.
They also filed supporting declarations.  
 
No
opposition or other response has been filed. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
California
Rules¿of Court,¿rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1)
notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil¿form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil¿form (MC-052)); (3) service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil¿form (MC-053)).¿ 
 
The¿court has discretion
to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted¿provided
that¿there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly
process of justice.¿¿(See¿Ramirez v.¿Sturdevant¿(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
904, 915.)¿ 
 
B.      Discussion
Here,
counsel for Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants seeks relief under Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 284(2). Counsel correctly completed and filed the notice
(Form MC-051) and declaration (MC-052). (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2); Cal. Rules
Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a) & (c).) In the declaration, counsel sufficiently
explains that this motion is being brought under Section 284(2) instead of
284(1) because grounds for withdrawal exist under the provisions of Rule 1.16
of the Rules of Professional Conduct, including without limitation subdivisions
(b)(5): “the client fails substantially to fulfill an obligation to the lawyer
regarding the lawyer's services and has been given reasonable warning that the
lawyer will withdraw unless the obligation is fulfilled” and/or (b)(4): “the
client insists upon taking action that the lawyer considers repugnant or with
which the lawyer has a fundamental disagreement.” (Rule
1.16 of the Rules of Professional Conduct.) Counsel
served the notice (MC-051), the declaration (MC-052) and the proposed orders (MC-053) on Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants.
The
Court finds all the requirements for relief have been completed. Additionally,
trial has been scheduled in this case for February 3, 2025 and Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants have a reasonable amount of time to obtain new counsel, such
that they should not be prejudiced by the withdrawal.
III. DISPOSITION
 
Accordingly, the Motions
to be Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Fortress SF1, LLC
and Cross-Defendant Jason Warner are GRANTED.
 
 