 Case Number:  22STCV24560    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  73 10/01/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
STEARNS BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION v. B.
GRIGOROVICH D.D.S., INC., et al. (22STCV24560)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party:  Christopher Crowell (Hemar,
Rousso & Heald, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/ opposing party: Armand Tinkerian (Law Offices of Armand Tinkerian)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
OR ALTERNATIVELY FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed on
6/11/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 29, 2022, Plaintiff Stearns Bank National Association brought
this action against Defendants B. Grigorovich D.D.S., Inc. and Boris
Grigorovich. The Complaint alleges causes of action for:
1.     Breach of
Equipment Finance Agreement;
2.     Breach of
Equipment Finance Agreement;
3.     Breach of
Guaranty; and 
4.     Breach of
Guaranty.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants and Plaintiff
entered into two Equipment Finance Agreements and Security Agreements pursuant
to which Plaintiff agreed to provide two loans to Defendants to finance and to
be secured by medical equipment. Plaintiff alleges it has performed all terms
and conditions on its part, however, Defendants have failed to make their
payments pursuant to the loan agreements. As a result of the defaults on both
loans, Plaintiff disposed of the medical equipment by private sale in a
commercially reasonable manner. Plaintiff seeks the remaining amount now due
and payable. 
 
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Motion for Summary Judgment
or alternatively Summary Adjudication of the Complaint’s first, second, third
and fourth causes of action.  
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
 “A party may move for summary adjudication of issues, either
by itself or as an alternative to summary judgment. If it appears that the
proof supports the granting of the motion for summary adjudication as to some
but not all the issues involved in the action, or that one or more of the
issues raised by a claim is admitted, or that one or more of the issues raised
by a defense is conceded, the court shall, by order, specify that those issues
are without substantial controversy. Moreover, upon a motion for summary
adjudication, the court shall, by written order or oral order recorded
verbatim, specify those issues raised by the motion for summary adjudication as
to which there exists a material, triable controversy, and shall specifically
refer to the evidence which establishes a triable issue of fact regarding each
of those issues ....”  (Cal.
Code. Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)).   
 
A plaintiff moving for summary
judgment/summary adjudication bears the initial burden of showing that “there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Plaintiff's¿initial¿burden¿of proof in
moving for summary judgment, however, d[oes] not include disproving any
affirmative defenses asserted by defendants.”  (Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.¿(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564, citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853 (“Aguilar”) [“summary judgment
law in this state no longer requires a¿plaintiff¿moving for summary judgment to
disprove any defense asserted by the defendant as well as prove each element of
his own cause of action.... All that the¿plaintiff¿need do is to ‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of action’ ”])  Once Plaintiff meets its
initial burden of proving each element of the cause of action, “the burden shifts
to the defendant “to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action¿or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step
analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by the pleadings .
. . . [¶]
Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s showing has established facts
which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor.
. . . [¶] When a
. . . motion prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to
determine whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm.
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th
373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
 
The California Supreme Court has
recently confirmed that the purpose of the 1992 and 1993 amendments to the
summary judgment statute was “‘to liberalize the granting of [summary judgment]
motions.’” (Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne, LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536,
542.)  It is no longer called a “disfavored” remedy.  “Summary
judgment is now seen as a ‘particularly suitable means to test the sufficiency’
of the plaintiff’s or defendant’s case.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Opposing parties must present
substantial evidence in order to avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in
probative value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire
v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the
plaintiff is unable to meet her burden of proof regarding an essential element
of her case, all other facts are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly,
construe the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the motion in favor of the party opposing
it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.)  “The court focuses
on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The court seeks to find
contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence, which raise a triable issue of material fact.”  (Johnson v.
United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal
citation omitted.)    "[S]ummary judgment cannot be
granted when the facts are susceptible [of] more than one reasonable
inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment or adjudication of the Complaint’s first, second,
third and fourth causes of action. The First and Second Causes of Action, for
breach of the First Agreement and the Second Agreement respectively, are
against Borrower B. Grigorovich D.D.S., Inc. The Third and Fourth Causes of
Action, for breach of the First Guaranty and the Second Guaranty respectively,
are against Guarantor Boris Grigorovich.
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff (“Lender”)
made two
loans to Defendant B. Grigorovich D.D.S., Inc., a California corporation
(‘Borrower”), to finance Borrower’s acquisition of dental and cosmetic medical
equipment. Borrower granted Lender a security interest in the equipment to
secure payment of the loans pursuant to written security agreements. Boris
Grigorovich, an individual (“Guarantor”), guaranteed payment of both loans
pursuant to written guarantees. After Borrower failed to make required loan
payments, Lender repossessed and resold the equipment. Lender now seeks a
judgment against Borrower and Guarantor for the loan balances remaining after
application of the equipment sale proceeds, in the total amount of $436,475.40.

 
Plaintiff argues that there exist no disputed
issues of material fact regarding any elements of Defendants’ breach. In
support, Plaintiff submits copies of the first and second equipment finance
agreements signed by Plaintiff and Borrower. (Jaskolka Decl., Exs. 1, 4.) The
agreements provide in relevant part that “failure to pay us as agreed” or
“failure to perform Obligations under this Contract or other agreement with us
… constitutes Default.” (Id. ¶ 11, Ex. 1, p. 2; Ex. 4, p. 2.) In
addition, Guarantor signed a Guaranty printed at the bottom of the last page of
the agreements whereby Guarantor absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed all
payments and other obligations owed to Lender under, related to, and arising
from the agreements. (Id. ¶ 14, Ex. 1, Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff also cites to testimony by Jesse
Jaskolka, the manager of Plaintiff’s Litigation & Asset Management, who
states that Defendants failed to make payments due under the agreements. (Id.
¶ 32.) Plaintiff submits a copy of a letter sent to Defendants on October 21,
2020 notifying them of the payment defaults under the Agreements and demanding
payment in full of all amounts due thereunder no later than October 31, 2020. (Id.
¶ 32, Ex. 11.) Plaintiff also submits a copy of a Notification of Disposition
of Collateral that Plaintiff sent to Borrower and Guarantor on July 21, 2021, informing
them that Plaintiff would sell the Equipment privately sometime after July 31,
2021. (Id. ¶ 33, Ex. 12.) Jaskolka states that on December 16, 2021, Jaskolka
sent Borrower and Guarantor a Notice of Sale of Equipment pertaining to both
agreements. (Id. ¶ 34, 38, Exs. 13, 14.) Plaintiff also submits the
declaration of Anne Schaeffer, a sales executive employed by North Bay
Networks, Inc., who states that in October 2021, North Bay (with Plaintiff’s
approval) sold the equipment. (Schaeffer Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 2.) Jaskolka states
that in sum, the total amount that will be owed by Borrower and Guarantor under
the Agreements and the Guarantees as of the hearing date of this motion will be
$436,475.40. (Jaskolka Decl., ¶ 41.)
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has met its burden. Plaintiff provided a copy of the equipment
finance agreements and guarantees showing the existence of a contract between
the parties and Plaintiff sufficiently provided testimony attesting to Plaintiff’s
performance of the agreements and Borrower’s default under the agreements by
failing to make required loan payments. The burden shifts to Defendants. Yet,
Defendants did not file an opposition and did not provide evidence of a
disputed material issue of fact. 
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s first, second, third and
fourth causes of action. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 