  Case Number:  23STCV23311    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Food 4 Less of
California, Inc. vs. Hamilton Court LLC, et. al., Case No. 23STCV23311
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena and for Protective Order
 
            Food 4 Less
of California, Inc. (Plaintiff) moves for an order quashing the deposition
subpoena served on Plaintiff’s counsel Eve Brackmann and for a protective order.
The motion is granted.
 
Where the witness whose deposition
is sought is not a party,
a subpoena must be
served to compel his or her attendance, testimony, or production of documents.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).) A deposition subpoena may request (1)
only the attendance and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of
business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as
the production of business records.  (Id.,
§ 2020.020.) The court, upon motion by a party or the court’s own motion, “may
make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.” (Id., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) In addition,
“the court may make any other orders as may be appropriate to protect the
person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Ibid.) 
“For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.’
[Citation]. Admissibility is not the test and information, unless
privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.
[Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery.” (Gonzales
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
 
Plaintiff commenced the present
lawsuit against Hamilton Court, LLC, 3650 Olympic L.P., 3650 Olympic LLC, and
Toluca Lake Collective, Inc. (Defendant) on September 25, 2023, alleging breach
of contract regarding a previous settlement agreement and seeking declaratory
relief. On September 3, 2024, Defendant served counsel for Plaintiff, Eve
Brackmann (Counsel), with a deposition subpoena in advance of an upcoming
hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication. (Brackmann Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant
seeks testimony concerning discussions between Counsel and Plaintiff about
draft lease amendments related to the past settlement agreement. Plaintiff
moved for a protective order and to quash the subpoena on September 16, 2024,
on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to justify a deposition of opposing
counsel under Carehouse Convalescent Hospital v. Superior Court (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 1558.
 
While attorneys are not immune from being
deposed, “[d]epositions of opposing counsel are presumptively improper,
severely restricted, and require ‘extremely’ good cause — a high standard.” (Id.
at p. 1562 quoting Spectra-Physics, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 198
Cal.App.3d 1487, 1493.) California uses a three-prong test to determine if such
a deposition is warranted. (Id. at p. 1563.) Opposing counsel may only
be deposed where “(1) no other means exist to obtain the information than to
depose opposing counsel; (2) the information sought is relevant and not privileged;
(3) the information is crucial to the preparation of the case.” (Spectra-Physics,
supra, at p. 1496.) 
This doctrine is grounded in strong policy
considerations. (Carehouse, supra, at p. 1562.) Attorney
depositions are disruptive and expensive for clients. (Ibid.) They
distort the adversarial system by requiring counsel to act as both advocate and
witness. (Ibid.) They can lead to endless collateral disputes about
which attorney statements are privileged, causing great delay. (Id. at
p. 1563.) And when abused, they can even harm the attorney-client relationship by
sowing distrust between client and attorney. (Ibid.) The Court will
address each Spectra-Physics prong in turn.
First, Defendant must show that “no other
means exist to obtain the information than to depose opposing counsel.” (Spectra-Physics,
supra, at p. 1496.) Defendant contends that Counsel is the only
potential witness who could testify about the lease amendment negotiations at
issue. Plaintiff’s person most qualified testified in deposition but did not
know the details of the negotiations. (Khan Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Plaintiff’s
store managers can testify about the relevant violations of the settlement
agreement (Brackmann Decl. ¶ 14), but these store managers were not privy to
the negotiations surrounding the lease amendments. (Id., Ex. 7.) Indeed,
Counsel has expressed that she is the only person who could testify as to the
negotiations surrounding the settlement agreement and lease amendments from
Plaintiff’s perspective. (Khan Decl., Ex. B.) Thus, Defendant has satisfied the
first prong in showing that no other deponent exists.
Second, Defendant must show that “the
information sought is relevant and not privileged.” (Spectra-Physics, supra,
at p. 1496.) Importantly, the party opposing discovery has the burden to show
preliminary facts supporting the applicability of attorney-client privilege. (Carehouse,
supra, at p. 1563.) Counsel asserts that the testimony sought would be
privileged attorney-client communications. (Brackmann Decl. ¶ 11.) Defendant
contends that Counsel can testify to some matters which would be outside of
privilege. (Khan Decl. ¶ 5.) This argument does not satisfy the second prong.
Any attorney deposed could be asked about unprivileged matters; the second
prong concerns the main information sought by Defendant. Here, that information
primarily concerns discussions between Counsel and Plaintiff concerning previously
drafted lease amendments. These discussions occurred within the attorney-client
relationship and should not be subject to discovery. Whether Counsel can
testify to other non-privileged matters is irrelevant. 
Defendant further argues that any privileged
matters can be addressed through objections at the deposition, but this again
defeats the purpose of the second Spectra-Physics prong. Defendant seeks
testimony about likely conversations between Counsel and Plaintiff regarding
draft lease amendments. That Counsel could object to questions concerning
privileged matters defeats the purpose of any proposed deposition which
concerns almost exclusively privileged matters. Thus, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has shown that the information sought would be privileged, and
Defendant has failed to satisfy the second prong.
Third, Defendant must show that the
information sought “is crucial to the preparation of the case.” (Spectra-Physics,
supra, at p. 1496.) Defendant contends that the stated intentions of the
parties to the settlement are critical to interpreting the lease amendments. Specifically,
Defendant seeks to determine whether the Plaintiff intended for the settlement
or lease amendments to govern when the settlement was signed in 2019. To that
end, the documents’ language and principles of contractual interpretation will
be far more crucial to Defendant’s case than the discussions between Plaintiff
and Counsel while drafting them. Defendant has not shown that the information
sought is crucial to the preparation of their case. Thus, Defendant has not
satisfied the third prong either.
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
quash the deposition subpoena served on Counsel and issues a protective order
prohibiting Defendant from seeking further discovery from Counsel in this case.