 Case Number:  21STCV36962    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 10/31/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV36962 JENNIFER CHEN vs
JASON RAICH
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
Background
On July 3, 2024,
Plaintiff Jennifer Chen served her Requests for Admissions, Set Two, on
Defendant Jason Raich, who is currently appearing in pro per. The deadline for
Defendant to serve a timely response expired on August 4, 2024. As of October
3, 2024, Defendant has not provided any responses. Plaintiff now moves the
Court to deem the contents of her Requests for Admissions, Set Two, admitted. 
Legal Standard¿¿ 
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action admit
the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of
fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿
CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after
service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed
shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a
copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿
CCP § 2033.250(a).¿¿ 
        If
a party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a).
The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall
issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a
response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP §
2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to
deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and confer requirements.¿¿ 
Analysis 
        Defendant
failed to serve an initial response, including any objections, within the
timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a). No opposition or other documents were
filed indicating that responses were served prior to the hearing. Therefore,
the contents of Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set Two, are deemed
admitted.
Sanctions are mandatory
against the party, the attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
discovery response necessitated Plaintiff’s filing of the present motion. (CCP
§ 2033.280(c).) Plaintiff has requested sanctions in the amount of $1,185, which
the Court deems reasonable. Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount
of $1,185 to Plaintiff within 20 days of this order.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 