 Case Number:  21STCV26067    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTIONS TO PRECLUDE EXPERT TESTIMONY AT TRIAL 
Hearing Date: 10/31/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV26067 BRITHNEY
GONZALEZ vs BRENDA JIMENEZ et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant BRENDA JIMENEZ 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO PRECLUDE EXPERT TESTIMONY
AT TRIAL ARE GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff designated Dr. Bruce
Fishman and Dr. Ata Kashani as non-retained experts. Defendant noticed the depositions of these
experts, but none of them appeared for their depositions or produced their
expert files. Expert discovery is now closed, and Defendant moves the Court to
exclude Dr. Bruce Fishman and Dr. Ata Kashani from testifying at trial. 
 
Facts 
 
Dr. Bruce Fishman 
·        
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff exchanged her
expert designation, naming Dr. Bruce Fishman as one of Plaintiff’s non-retained
experts.
·        
On July 8, 2024, Defendant noticed the
deposition of Plaintiff’s non-retained expert, Dr. Bruce Fishman, scheduled for
July 23, 2024.
·        
Due to a conflict, Dr. Fishman’s deposition
was rescheduled to September 20, 2024.
·        
On September 16, 2024, counsel for Dr. Fishman
served an objection stating that discovery had closed and that the deposition
was barred under C.C.P. § 2024.020.
·        
On September 17, 2024, Defense Counsel emailed
correspondence to Dr. Fishman’s counsel, advising that Dr. Fishman was
identified as Plaintiff’s non-retained expert and was being deposed as an
expert witness.
·        
On September 19, 2024, Dr. Fishman and/or his
attorney indicated they were unaware that Dr. Fishman was identified as a
non-retained expert. Consequently, Dr. Fishman would not be appearing for his
deposition scheduled on September 20.
·        
On September 20, 2024, Dr. Fishman did not
appear and Defendant took a Certificate of Non-Appearance.
 
Dr. Ata Kashani
 
·        
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff exchanged her
expert designation, naming Ata Kashani as one of Plaintiff’s non-retained
experts.
·        
On July 8, 2024, Defendant noticed/subpoenaed
Dr. Kashani’s deposition to take place on July 23, 2024.
·        
Dr. Kashani’s office contacted Defense
Counsel’s office, advising that he was out of the country and could not attend
the July 23 deposition. Defendant subsequently noticed/subpoenaed Dr. Kashani’s
deposition for September 11, 2024, rescheduled to September 24, 2024, per Dr.
Kashani’s agreement to appear on this date.
·        
On September 21, 2024, Dr. Kashani advised
that his September 24 deposition would not go forward because Defense Counsel
had not paid his deposition fee. Dr. Kashani also refused to provide his CV,
fee schedule, and expert file.
·        
On September 24, 2024, Dr. Kashani failed to
appear for his deposition, and Defense Counsel took a Certificate of
Non-Appearance.
 
The current trial date is November 18, 2024.
The trial was continued from October 9, 2024, to November 18, 2024, but the
minute order continuing the trial did not specify that expert discovery or
other case-related deadlines would follow the new trial date. As a result,
expert discovery is now closed.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under California Code of Civil Procedure §
2034.300(d), the trial court shall exclude from evidence the expert opinion of
any witness if a party has unreasonably failed to make that expert available
for deposition, provided the moving party made a complete and timely expert
witness exchange. Furthermore, the court has inherent authority to exclude
evidence when a party has acted unfairly. This means that even if the mandatory
provision under CCP § 2034.300(d) does not strictly apply due to the defendant’s
incomplete or late disclosure, the court still has discretion to exclude expert
testimony at trial. (Cottini v. Enloe Medical Center (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 401, 428.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant’s counsel
has shown that all parties, including Defendant, met the statutory requirements
for timely expert designations under CCP § 2034.260 (Declaration of Dwayne S.
Beck ¶3). The Court finds that Plaintiff unreasonably failed to make her experts
available. Specifically, Plaintiff’s counsel objected to Dr. Fishman’s
deposition on the grounds that fact discovery was closed. However, after
defense counsel clarified that Dr. Fishman was listed as a non-retained expert
and that Defendant was taking Dr. Fishman’s expert deposition, Plaintiff nevertheless
informed Defendant that Dr. Fishman would not appear. Plaintiff’s refusal
to make Dr. Fishman available for deposition, despite listing him as a
non-retained expert and being informed of Defendant's intent to take his expert
deposition was unreasonable.
 
As to Dr.
Kashani, the deposition was scheduled for the agreed-upon date of September 24,
2024. However, Plaintiff failed to pay Dr. Kashani’s deposition fees, resulting
in his non-appearance. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s failure to make the
payment directly prevented Defendant from proceeding with the deposition as
planned and unreasonably failed to make that expert available for deposition.
 
Expert discovery
time is limited. When expert depositions are continued and rescheduled for an
agreed-upon date, any reason causing the expert not to appear—as with Dr.
Kashani due to unpaid fees, or Dr. Fishman, whose deposition was mistaken for
fact discovery—results in lost opportunities for meaningful discovery.
Exclusion is mandatory under CCP § 2034.300(d). 
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. The Court finds that Plaintiff acted
unreasonably and that Defendant complied with the statutory requirements for
timely expert disclosure under CCP § 2034.260. Expert discovery should not be a
"cat and mouse" game, yet Plaintiff’s conduct suggests otherwise. A
party must make its experts available for deposition; Plaintiff failed to do
so, and the consequences are outlined in the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
Accordingly, the
motion is granted. Dr. Kashani and Dr. Fishman, Plaintiff’s non retained
experts, are excluded from providing expert testimony at trial, although they
may testify as  percipient witnesses.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 