 Case Number:  22STCV40614    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
Judge Lee S. Arian

Department 27, Spring Street

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 31,
2024
Case Name:                             Cathy Feck et
al. v. Gregory Owen, et al.
Case No.:                                22STCV40614
Motion:                                   Motion to
Compel Depositions of Defendants and Compel Production of Medical Records;
Request for Monetary Sanctions
Moving Party:                         Plaintiffs Cathy Feck,
individually and as surviving spouse of Charles Feck, deceased; Cathy Feck as
Personal Representative of the Estate of Charles Feck, deceased; and Dolores
Adams 
Responding Party:                   Defendants Gregory Owen and
Susan Owen
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Compel is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
 
Plaintiffs to give
notice.
 

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This personal injury and wrongful
death action arises out of an accident which occurred on January 14, 2022, in
which Defendant Greg Owens was operating a Motor Coach (weighing over 20,000
pounds) and failed to come to a stop at a red-light, rear-ending Plaintiffs’
Jeep Grand Cherokee which was at a complete stop at a red light. The accident
took place on Highway 95 in Lake Havasu City, Arizona and resulted in the death
of Charles Feck (“decedent”) and seriously injured decedent’s wife, Cathy Feck,
and sister, Dolores Adams. Thus, on December 28, 2022, Plaintiffs Cathy Feck,
individually and as surviving spouse of Charles Feck, deceased; Cathy Feck, as
Personal Representative of the Estate of Charles Feck, deceased; and Dolores
Adams (collectively herein “Plaintiffs”) filed the underlying action and
original complaint against Defendants Gregory Owen and Susan Owen (collectively
herein “Defendants”). On April 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) which is now the operative complaint, alleging the following
four causes of action: (1) negligence; (2) violation of California Vehicle Code
Section 17150; (3) survival action; and (4) vicarious liability/ respondeat
superior. 
            Prior to the filing of this
underlying matter, in State of Arizona vs. Gregory James Owen, Cause No.
M0844TR2022000209. (Mot., Ex. 1.) defendant Gregory James Owen was found guilty
as charged for a violation of ARS 28-672 (guilty of causing serious injury or
death by moving violation) under which 28-645 (A)(3) (failure to obey a traffic
signal) is referenced. Defendant Owens’ conviction is on appeal. (Mot., pg. 4.)
            On September 20, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant Motion to Compel the Depositions of both Defendants Gregory
and Susan Owen as well as Medical Records and a Request for Sanctions.[1] Plaintiffs also
concurrently filed a Meet and Confer Affidavit written by Plaintiff’s Counsel
of record, Sommer D. Luther[2] and a corresponding Proof
of Service. 
On October 17, 2024, Defendants filed an
Opposition with an attached Declaration of Defendants’ Counsel, Greg Ryan; the
Declaration of Defendants’ counsel, Michael C. Mashburn; and a Request for
Monetary Sanctions. 
On October 24, 2024, the parties
stipulated to extend the deadline of Plaintiffs’ Reply to the instant motion to
“Monday, October 29, 2024.” 
On Monday, October 28, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their Reply. 
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.010.)  A properly served deposition notice is effective to
require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well
as to produce documents for inspection  and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) 
The
party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless
that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days
prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  In addition to serving this written
objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410, subd. (c).) 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed
with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the
deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document .
. . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).) 
Where
a motion to compel a party’s appearance and testimony at deposition is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject
to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)  On motion of a party who, in person or by attorney,
attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in the
expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and against the
deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).
 
Plaintiffs’ Moving Arguments
Plaintiffs now move the Court seeking an
order (1) compelling the deposition of Defendant Greg Owen (“Defendant Owen”)
on a date certain; (2) compelling production of medical records substantiating Defendant
Owen’s need for accommodations at the time of his deposition; and (3)
compelling the deposition of Defendant Susan Owen (“Mrs. Owen”) on a date
certain. (Mot., pg. 3.) 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants are going
out of their way to prevent Plaintiffs from taking the deposition of Defendant Owen
considering the case is presently set for trial on January 29, 2025. (Id.)
In sum, Plaintiffs set forth that in the past nine (9) months,  Defendants have engaged in the following
conduct to prevent the depositions from taking place: inappropriately asserting
the Fifth Amendment Privilege; failing to produce medical documentation to
support Mr. Owen’s medical inability to sit for deposition; untimely and multiple
unilateral cancellations of deposition dates and/or requests to reschedule; and
improper delay tactics. (Mot., pg. 11.) 
Defendants’ Opposition
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs did not
reasonably meet and confer before filing the instant motion to compel because
just two days after an email exchange took place regarding Mrs. Owen’s
cancelled deposition whereby Defendants requested Plaintiffs provide further
dates, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel. (Opp., pg. 3.) Thus,
Defendants claim Plaintiffs prematurely filed the instant motion without
continuing to engage in the meet and confer taking place with respect to Mrs.
Owen’s deposition. Defendants further claim that no basis exists for compelling
Mrs. Owen’s deposition because she never “refused to appear” for deposition.
(Opp., pg. 4.) Defendants also argue that Defendant Owen cannot sit for a
deposition without risking serious medical consequences. (Opp., pg. 5.) Given that
Defendant Owen was recently hospitalized for a transient ischemic attack and is
under medical care for a stroke and post-concussion syndrome, Defendant  Owen’s neurologist has already provided sufficient
documentation advising that Defendant Owen is not to engage in stressful
situations such as depositions. (Opp., pg. 5, Ex. B, Chow Declaration.) Lastly,
 Defendants argue that there is no basis
to compel Mr. Owens’ medical records despite Plaintiffs requesting an order “compelling
production of medical records substantiating Mr. Owen’s need for accommodations
at the time of his deposition.” Defendants argue this matter is not properly
before the Court because a motion to compel such records requires a deficient
response to a document request per CCP § 2031.310.(a) (Opp., pgs. 5-6.)
Reply
Plaintiffs argue that it was not until Defendant
Owen was finally facing sentencing—which included the possibility of
incarceration—that he finally disclosed to the police and the Court that at the
time of the collision, he was taking “over 20 pills a day” and had been
diagnosed with conditions such as “memory impairment” and “progressive
cognitive decline” and had a “history of transient ischemic attacks.”[3] (Reply., ¶ 3.) At the time
of sentencing, Mrs. Owen told the criminal court that if incarcerated, Mr. Owen
“would die.” (Id.) Plaintiffs argue that now that Defendants have
asserted every conceivable reason to avoid the most basic discovery—appearing
for a deposition, they are asserting medical unavailability. (Id., ¶ 4.)

Plaintiffs further assert that since
filing the instant motion, Plaintiffs have continued to engage in efforts to
schedule Defendants’ depositions, including Plaintiffs providing available
dates for the months of October and November. (Id., ¶ 7.) Such efforts
include lengthy phone calls without resolve. Now, Plaintiffs see no other
alternative than to seek the Court’s intervention in the process of scheduling Mrs.
Owen’s deposition. (Id., ¶ 8.) With respect toDefendant Owen’s
deposition, Dr. Chow’s declaration/ affidavit is vague, and Defendants have
failed to provide even one page of medical records to substantiate Dr. Chow’s
statements. (Id., ¶ 10.) Furthermore, Defendants have failed to provide
any information regarding an estimated time when Defendant. Owen will be
healthy enough to sit for deposition. (Id., ¶ 10.) As such, Plaintiffs
ask the Court to compel Defendant Owen to provide substantiating information
for his request to continue to delay his deposition and for specific
information regarding his expected prognosis and recovery. (Id., ¶ 11.)
Application
to Facts
            Multiple Motions
As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that Plaintiffs have consolidated multiple
motions into one filing. Plaintiffs are moving to (1) compel the deposition of
Defendant Owen; (2) compel the deposition of Defendant Mrs. Owen; (3) compel
the production of medical records substantiating Defendant Owen’s medical
condition; and (4) seem to be requesting the Court also compel previously
requested medical records of Defendant Owen which concern Defendant Owen’s
medical history prior to the accident.  
Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is mandatory for
court clerks to demand and receive them. (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Government Code section 70617. (a) states:
“Except as provided in subdivisions (d) and (e), the uniform fee for filing a
motion, application, or any other paper requiring a hearing subsequent to the
first paper, is forty dollars ($40). Papers for which this fee shall be charged
include the following: (1) A motion listed in paragraphs (1) to (12),
inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 1005 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.” 
Government Code section 70617 further provides, "(d)
The fee for filing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication of
issues is five hundred dollars ($500) . . . (f) states: “Regardless of whether
each motion or matter is heard at a single hearing or at separate hearings, the
filing fees required by subdivisions (a), (c), (d), and (e) apply separately to
each motion or other paper filed. The Judicial Council may publish rules to
give uniform guidance to courts in applying fees under this section.”
As such, Plaintiffs are ordered to pay the filing fees of
each of the four motions contained herein.
Sufficiency of Meet and Confer Declaration

            CCP § 2016.040 provides that “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. A
determination of whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate is left
to the exercise of the Court’s discretion. (Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.)
            Defendants argue in Opposition that
Plaintiffs meet and confer efforts are insufficient because “[t]he law requires
that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and
deliberate.” (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431,
1439.) There must be “a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.”
(Id. at 1438.) “The Discovery Act makes no exception based upon one’s
speculation that the prospect of informal resolution may be bleak.” (Id.)
(Opp., pg. 3, Mashburn Decl., Ex. A.) Thus, Defendants assert Plaintiffs did
not make a serious “effort at negotiation and informal resolution.” (Townsend.,
at 1438.) However, the Court finds Defendants’ argument here specifically
concerns the issue of Defendant Susan Owen’s deposition. Moreover, Defendants
argue that despite cancelling within 24-hours of Mrs. Owen’s noticed deposition
on September 18, 2024, Defendants’ request for Plaintiffs to provide further
dates should have been further engaged.  Defendants
argue that instead—and only two days later—Plaintiffs filed the instant motion
to compel on September 20, prematurely abandoning the meet and confer process.
(Opp., pgs. 2-4.) 
The Court notes that in accordance with
CCP § 2016.040, an adequate meet and confer declaration should state facts
demonstrating good faith attempts to informally resolve each issue.  Thus, the Court first recalls that Plaintiffs
are moving to (1) compel the deposition of Defendant Owen; (2) compel the
deposition of Defendant Mrs. Owen; (3) compel the production of medical records
substantiating Defendant Greg Owen’s medical condition; and (4) compel
previously requested medical records of Defendant Greg Owen which concern Mr.
Owen’s medical history prior to the accident. Thus, Plaintiffs’ declaration
should provide facts with respect to each of the foregoing issues. Attached to
Plaintiffs’ “Meet and Confer Affidavit” is one exhibit—Exhibit 1 which is a
letter dated September 11, 2024 and  provides as follows:
“Last month you indicated that
you would produce Mr. Owen’s medical records for the thirty (30) days prior to
the subject collision; however, those records were never produced. You continue
to claim that this is in violation of Mr. Owen’s HIPAA and privacy interests. 
 
At this point, we plan to seek
the Court’s intervention through a Motion to Compel, which we will file on
September 19, 2024. Specifically, we will seek the disclosure of all medical
records that Dr. Schapira reviewed in forming his opinion that Mr. Owen was
able to safely operate a motor vehicle at the time of the subject collision and
the deposition of Dr. Schapira. 
 
There is also a second issue that
has now arisen regarding Mr. Owen’s deposition. I understand from Dr. Chow’s
letter that, despite failing to provide any medical support, Dr. Chow indicates
that Mr. Owen is unable to sit for a deposition. Again, you indicated that you
would provide medical records related to Mr. Owen’s current medical condition;
however, none have been produced.”
(M&C Affidavit, Ex.
1.)
There are no other exhibits attached
regarding any other communications but the Court notes that Plaintiffs state
further correspondence is attached to Plaintiffs’ moving papers which is true. 
 Given
the instant motion seeks to compel two depositions and what appears to be two
different sets of medical documents, it is unclear if the meet and confer
declaration itself evidences the entire history of Plaintiffs’ efforts as to
all four requests to compel.   
Plaintiffs’ meet and confer declaration
itself consists of only six numbered paragraphs, comprising less than a page,
and stating in pertinent part:
“4.  Specifically,
with respect to the deposition of Gregory Owen, in addition to the issues and
conferrals outlined in Plaintiffs’ Motion, on September 11, 2024, I sent a
letter to Defendants’ regarding the alleged inability of Mr. Owen to sit for
a deposition. That letter is attached hereto as Ex. 1. Defendants
did not respond to my letter. 
 
5.  With respect to
the deposition of Susan Owen, after months of conferral, a deposition of
Susan Owen was noticed to take place on September 18, 2024. However, less than
24 hours prior to the start time of that deposition, I received a notification
from Defendants that due to scheduling conflicts the deposition could not
proceed as scheduled. The specific communications are set forth in Plaintiffs’
Motion. 
 
6.  Despite good
faith attempts to confer on the scheduling of Defendants’ depositions, it
appears that the Court’s involvement is necessary at this time.”
 
(M&C Affidavit, ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
Given the Meet and Confer
Affidavit does not clearly set forth meet and confer efforts as to each of the
motion’s issues and potentially conflates some of the issues, the Court finds
the affidavit itself lacking. However, the Court also finds Defendants’
argument lacking because Defendants only argue deficiency with respect to Mrs.
Owen and focus on one email exchange. Accordingly, Defendants neglect to
mention an entire history of Plaintiffs’ efforts which the Court finds
substantive and numerous. Given Defendants’ continued history of untimely and
unilateral cancellations, refusals to be deposed, and continued unavailability,
the Court elects to exercise its discretion to find Plaintiffs meet and confer
efforts, on balance, adequate. In addition, trial is quickly approaching (on
January 29, 2025) and it is in the interests of justice to account for
Plaintiffs’ efforts on the whole and act with the ends of efficiency and
economy in mind. 
Defendant Owen
Compelling
Deposition
Plaintiffs
recall that in May of 2024, Defendants informed counsel that due to the pending
criminal case, Mr. Owen would not agree to sit for deposition. (Mot., pg. 4.)
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a letter to Defendants reiterating the request for dates
for the Defendants’ depositions. Plaintiffs Counsel also provided citations to
California legal authority, confirming that witnesses may assert their 5th Amendment Privilege to particular
questions but may not assert a blanket refusal to appear or testify. (Mot., pg.
4, Ex. 3.) Then, on June 25, 2024, Defendant’s Counsel, Dana Fox, advised that
Mr. Owen’s health was not in good condition and stated “I suspect we will have
to present him over multiple days, going two or three hours max per session,
with breaks app. Every 30 minutes.” (Id., Ex. 6.) Plaintiffs provide the
following timeline concerning the Plaintiffs’ communications and agreeance to
accommodate Mr. Owen’s health:



June 25, 2024


Plaintiffs propose
  deposition dates for both Defendants during the week of August 5th or
  August 12 (Ex. 7.)
 




June 25, 2024


Defendants propose
  deposition dates of August 15 and 16. (Ex. 8.)
 




June 25, 2024


Plaintiffs agree to
  August 15 and 16. (Ex. 9.)
 




June 25, 2024


Defendants advise that
  Greg Owen’s deposition will likely need at least two days to complete “due to
  his medical condition” (Ex. 10.)
 




June 25, 2024


Plaintiffs request information as “the
  nature of the medical condition that is preventing him from completing the
  deposition in one day” 
Plaintiffs agree to accommodate Mr.
  Owen and offer to start Mr. Owen’s deposition on August 14. (Ex. 11)
 




July 2, 2024


After receiving no response to the
  email of June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs follow up regarding the specifics for
  scheduling the depositions.
  Plaintiffs again ask “can you describe the nature of the medical condition
  that necessitates this deposition being conducted over multiple days?”  (Ex. 12.)
 



 
On July 4, 2024, Defense Counsel
informed Plaintiffs that Mr. Owen was “transported to the emergency for a
possible stroke. I am waiting for an update. When I hear back, I will do my
best to respond to your email.”  (Id.,
Ex. 13.)
            On July 18, 2024, Defendants emailed
the following update on Mr. Owen’s medical condition: 
On July
3, 2024, Greg suffered a TIA/mini-stroke while exercising. As a result of the
TIA/mini-stroke, Greg fell and suffered a concussion. He is being treated by a
8 neurologist. For the first time in his life he has been told not to drive
until he gets better. His next neurology appt. is August 20. I will ask Susan
to ask the neurologist for a letter.
(Mot., Ex. 14.)
In an email dated August 25, 2024,
Defendants’ Counsel advised that “Greg has not been medically cleared for a
deposition.” (Mot. Ex. 16.) Defendants also provided a letter from a Dr.
William W. Chow, dated August 16, 2024, stating, in its entirety, as follows:
To whom this may concern, 
 
Gregory Owen DOB 7/19/54 is under
my care for stroke and post-concussion syndrome. He was recently hospitalized
for TIA. He is not to engage in stressful situations such as a deposition due
to his medical condition. 
Please contact my office with any
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
William Chow, MD
Board Certified in Neurology
Assistant Clinical Professor 
UCLA School of Medicine
 
(Mot., Ex. 14.)
 
In such case, the Court notes that there
has been numerous back and forth correspondence regarding deposition dates for
Mr. Owen and that Plaintiffs have a right to right to depose Mr. Owen as the
primary Defendant in this underlying matter. Moreover, it was Mr. Owen who was
operating the motor home which collided with Plaintiffs’ vehicle, killing Mr.
Feck and injuring his wife and sister. Furthermore, the Court notes that
Defendants have not formally objected to the deposition of Gregory Owen, nor
filed a motion for protective order, moved for an order staying the taking of a
deposition and/or filed a motion to quash a deposition notice. However, the
Court also notes that, pursuant to CCP § 2025.410, Plaintiffs do not mention or
reference any previously noticed deposition dates for Mr. Owen or that one is
currently pending.  CCP § 2025.410
provides as follows:
(a)   Any party served with a deposition
notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar
days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party
seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the
deposition notice was served.
 
(b)   If an objection is made three calendar
days before the deposition date, the objecting party shall make personal
service of that objection pursuant to Section 1011 on the party who
gave notice of the deposition. Any deposition taken after the service of a
written objection shall not be used against the objecting party
under Section 2025.620 if the party did not attend the deposition and
if the court determines that the objection was a valid one.
 
(c)   In addition to serving this written
objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. The
taking of the deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.
 
Given that Plaintiffs do not allege there
was or is a noticed deposition date for Mr. Owen Owen that Mr. Owen failed to
appear for, object to, or proceed with, the Court finds CCP § 2025.410 does not
yet apply. 
            Medical
Records Substantiating Mr. Owen’s Current Medical Condition
Defendants state Plaintiffs have not
propounded requests for medical records and the Court finds the exhibits do not
evidence such requests with respect to Mr. Owens. However, Exhibit 12 does
contain the following communication, evidencing prior assurances which
Defendants are now contradicting in opposition:
            On Tuesday, July 30, at 8:29 AM,
Plaintiffs’ counsel wrote:
Alex,
 
I
am waiting to receive Dana's response to our email exchange from last week.
Specifically, I am expecting a response to the following:
 
•
Production of medical records from Mr. Owen's recent stroke/injury that caused
the need to delay his deposition:
 
•
Dates for Mr. Owen's deposition - I am expecting that it will be the day before
or after his wife's deposition, as we had previously scheduled; and,
 
• Production of medical records for Greg Owen for the 30 days prior to
collision (understanding that Plaintiffs maintain their position that the
entire medical record is relevant and discoverable) Please advise as to when
this information will be provided. 
 
I am not amenable to continued extensions on discovery when these items
are outstanding and the depositions have been moved multiple times at this
point. 
Sommer (Mot., Ex. 12.)
 
On
Tuesday, July 30 at 9:23 AM, Defense Counsel wrote:
Good
morning, Sommer, 
 
I wanted
to send an email and request a 21-day extension for our responses to your
second request for production of documents to Greg Owen. Is that
acceptable? Let me know when you can. My understanding is this would make
responses due August 20, 2024. 
 
Kind
regards, Alex Khalifeh 
 
            Thus, it appears that there have been
requests for production of documents with respect to medical issues. In lieu of
granting Plaintiffs’ motion to compel deposition or motion to compel current
medical records, the Court orders Plaintiffs to schedule and notice the
deposition of Mr. Owen, even if the parties are unable to agree on a date and
then Defendants may either object or agree to be deposed with accommodations.
Alternatively, Defendants may file a protective order whereby Mr. Owens will be
compelled to provide current and substantial medical documentation evidencing
his limitations, including an expected timeline of such limitations, a
prognosis and/or a treatment plan, and substantial reasoning explanation and
evidence as to why no deposition may be conducted in any form.  The Court notes that an unavailability of Mr.
Owen to be deposed will likely cause Defendant’s privacy arguments concerning
Mr. Owen’s pre-accident medical documentation to carry even less weight than it
presently does because Defendants will be further limiting the available
avenues of discovery. Moreover, the Court finds Dr. Chow’s letter does not
suffice substantively and is no longer current. 
 
 
Compelling
Medical Records Prior to Accident
Defendants
argue “[a] motion to compel records requires a deficient response to a document
request. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a) [“On receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”].) (Opp., pg. 5.) In this case, Defendants contend
Plaintiffs neither identify a discovery request seeking medical records, nor a
deficient response to such a request. (Opp., pgs. 5-6.)
            Moreover,
Plaintiffs’ footnote on page two of their moving papers states:
1 During this time Plaintiffs have
also been attempting to obtain Mr. Owen’s medical records, which are directly
relevant to the issues in this case. This issue will be addressed in
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Complete Medical Records of Defendant Greg Owen,
which will be filed with the Court shortly.” (Mot., pg. 2.)
 
At present, the Court finds it
unclear as to whether the instant motion is requesting Defendants produce
medical records of Mr. Owen’s pre-accident condition of health. Moreover, the meet
and confer affidavit contains one exhibit which indeed references these
pre-accident medical records and despite Plaintiffs stating that the issue of
compelling pre-accident records would be the subject for a motion to compel
filed shortly after the instant motion, no such motion appears to have been
filed. Accordingly, no other motions to compel are on calendar either.  
Defendant Susan Owen
Compelling
Deposition 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
have rescheduled Mrs. Owen’s deposition date four (4) times now, despite such
dates being proposed by Defendants themselves. Finally, and after extensive
communications, Mrs. Owen’s deposition was scheduled and noticed to occur on
September 18, 2024. (Mot., pg. 7, Ex. 16.) Being out of state, Plaintiffs’
Counsel had made travel arrangements, including air fare costs and then
further, reserving a videographer and court reporter. Yet, Defendants cancelled
said noticed deposition within less than 24 hours. On Tuesday, September 17,
2024, Defense Counsel emailed Plaintiffs’ Counsel the following:
Good
morning, Sommer,
 
May we
please request a new date and time for Susan Owen's deposition? I will reach
out to Susan today for new potential dates. I apologize for the inconvenience.
 
Kind
regards,
Alex
Kahlifeh
(Mot., Ex. 18.)
At
1:41 PM, Plaintiffs’ Counsel wrote back:
Mr.
Kahlifeh.
 
This
deposition has been noticed for some time. I have booked travel arrangements to
travel to LA this afternoon for this deposition and have reserved a
videographer and court reporter.
 
I
sent a confirming email yesterday and received no response.
 
Can
you please explain the basis for cancelling this deposition less than 24 hours
before the start time?
 
I
am not agreeable to cancelling the deposition without an understanding of the
reason why.
 
I
will also seek sanctions and costs for the expenses that I have incurred
preparing for t h is deposition and my travel.
 
 Sommer
(Mot.,
Ex. 19.)
At 1:44, Defense Counsel replied:
Sommer:
this is on me. I'm not available. I was when I suggested the date but my recent
trial upended my schedule. My apologies.
 
How
about the first week of October. Give me some dates. And as a sign of good
faith, I'11 pay the standard court reporter fees for Susan's deposition. 
 
(Mot., Ex.
19.)
 
On
Opposition, Defense Counsel contends that Plaintiffs’ motion is inappropriate
as to Defendant Susan Owen given Mrs. Owen has not refused to appear for
deposition. 
The
Court reminds Defendants that in addition to the requirement to adequately meet
and confer prior to bringing a motion to compel, CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a)
provides that if after service of a deposition notice, the noticed deponent
fails to object, appear for examination, or proceed with it, among other
things, the party seeking to take the noticed deponent’s deposition, the party
may then move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance. 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed
with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the
deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any
document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).) 
In this case, while the Court acknowledges
that Mrs. Owen is not presently refusing to appear for deposition, she has
failed to formally object to deposition and has a history of cancellations
which can tantamount equate to a failure to proceed with deposition. Given
Defendants’ history, requesting that Plaintiffs provide another date to
schedule a deposition when the four prior agreed dates were cancelled without
good faith reason (or reasonable notice), requesting Plaintiffs provide further
dates does not demonstrate a willingness of Mrs. Owen to resolve the dispute or
actually have her deposition taken. Defendants cannot continue to cancel Mrs.
Owen’s noticed depositions without reasonable notice and then offer to reschedule,
expecting such efforts will continue to be perceived in good faith and
interpreted as meaningful by either the Court, nor Plaintiffs at this stage. Furthermore,
the Court is mindful that trial is set for January 29, 2024. Thus, the Court
grants Plaintiffs’ instant motion with respect to compelling the deposition of
Defendant Susan Owens. Susan Owens is ordered to sit for deposition within 30
days of today.
 
CONCLUSION
            The Motion to Compel Defendants’
Depositions and Medical Records is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. 
            Plaintiffs to give notice.
            


