  Case Number:  19STCV36598    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION
Hearing Date: 10/31/24
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV36598 KEVIN FABIAN
JIMENEZ vs HOLST BROTHERS, INC., et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
Background
On April 20, 2024,
Plaintiff subpoenaed Dr. Isaac Bash for a deposition scheduled for May 3, 2024.
Dr. Bash did not appear at the deposition, and Plaintiff obtained a certificate
of non-appearance. Despite further attempts, Dr. Bash did not respond to
efforts to reschedule his deposition. On September 16, 2024, the Court heard
Plaintiff's original motion to compel and issued an order denying the motion on
the grounds that Dr. Bash had not been personally served with the motion.
Plaintiff now submits this amended motion, moving the Court compel the
deposition of non-party Dr. Bash. On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed proof of
service demonstrating personal service of the amended motion on Dr. Bash.
Legal Standard 
CCP § 2020.010 permits
discovery of non-party witnesses through oral and written depositions. (See CCP
§ 2020.010(a)(1), (2); Hawkins v. TACA International Airlines, S.A.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 476.) A deposition subpoena may command the
attendance and testimony of the deponent, the production of business records,
or both. (CCP § 2020.020.) Additional requirements regarding notification and a
right to object are in place where the records sought are consumer records,
including personal medical records. (See CCP § 1985.3.)  
        Two
provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure govern motions to compel responses to
deposition subpoenas. CCP § 1987.1 provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.”  
        CCP
§ 2025.480(a) similarly provides that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information,¿or
tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” Finally, CCP § 2025.480(c)
requires that notice of the motion be given to all parties and to the
deponent. 
Discussion
Dr. Bash served as one
of Plaintiff’s treating physicians, providing treatment in the emergency room
at West Hills Hospital immediately following the incident. His deposition is
essential to obtain a detailed understanding of Plaintiff’s immediate injuries
post-incident. As the first medical professional to evaluate and treat
Plaintiff, Dr. Bash possesses unique and critical knowledge regarding the
nature and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries immediately after the accident. The
Court finds good cause to compel Dr. Bash’s deposition. No opposition was filed
in response to either the original or the amended motion. Furthermore, the
original subpoena and motion were personally served on the non-party. All
requirements to compel the deposition have been met; thus, the motion is
granted.  Dr. Bash is ordered to sit for
his deposition within 20 days of today’s date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends
to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 