 Case Number:  22STCV32858    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PEDRO
  VILLEGAS 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JOSE ALFREDO
  TOLENTINO RAMIREZ, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV32858 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT AGAINST CAL STATE
  PLUMBING, INC. 


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
October 31,
  2024



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
            Plaintiff and
Defendant Jose Alfredo Tolentino Ramirez were involved in an auto v. auto
accident on August 10, 2022.  On October
6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Ramirez and his employer
and owner of the vehicle, Defendant National Construction Rentals, Inc.
(“National”).  Plaintiff alleges causes
of action for (1) Motor Vehicle; and (2) General Negligence.
            On October 4, 2024, Defendants
Ramirez and National filed the instant motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint.  As of October 28, 2024,
no opposition or reply has been filed.  
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
            “A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may
apply to the court for leave. . . to file a cross-complaint, to assert such
cause at any time during the course of the action.  The court, after notice to the adverse party,
shall grant, upon terms as may be just to the parties, leave . . . to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.  This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (CCP §426.50.)
            “A party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint
setting forth either or both of the following: . . . (b) Any cause of action he
has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person
is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts
a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him.” (CCP §428.10(b).)
            Pursuant to CCP §428.50, “[a] party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint.” 
(CCP §428.50(a).)  “Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial.”  (CCP §428.50(b).)  “A party shall obtain leave of court to file
any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision
(a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50.)
            “If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive . . ., leave of court may be granted ‘in the interest of justice’ at
any time during the course of the action (CCP § 428.50(c)).  On the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint
is compulsory . . ., leave must be granted so long as defendant is acting in
good faith (CCP § 426.50 . . .).”  (Weil
& Brown, (Rutter Group 2024), Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 6:555.) 
            “The declarations of defendant’s
counsel should show that it would be ‘in the interest of justice’ to grant
leave to file; and some reasonable excuse why the cross-complaint was not filed
earlier (mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect . . . or most commonly,
recent discovery of new facts).”  (Id.
at ¶ 6:562.)
            A party seeking leave to file a
cross-complaint must comply with CRC Rule. 
III.            
DISCUSSION
            A trial date
has been set for January 27, 2025. 
Defendants were therefore required to seek leave to file the proposed
cross-complaint against third parties for equitable indemnification and contribution.
            Defendants allege that, on the day
of the accident, Defendant Ramirez’s view was blocked by a van illegally parked
on the red curb on Sunset Blvd thereby contributing to the accident with
Plaintiff.  (You Dec., ¶3.)  Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint is
brought against Cal State Plumbing Solutions, Inc.  (You Dec., Ex. B.)  Defendants maintain they have only recently
ascertained this information.  (You Dec.,
¶3.)
            The proposed cross-complaint arises
from the same occurrence as Plaintiff’s underlying complaint.  Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the
motion for leave to file cross-complaint. 
There is no showing of prejudice if leave to file this proposed
cross-complaint is granted.  
            Leave to file the proposed
cross-complaint would be in the interests of justice.  Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint against Cal State Plumbing, Inc. is GRANTED.  
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 31st
day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 