  Case Number:  23STCV00238    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.
 
Defendant Caesarstone, Inc.’s Demurrer and
Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED and
DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs to
provide notice
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’ objections to the
declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela are OVERRULED.
Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.
offers objections to the materials submitted in Plaintiffs’ opposition to the
present motion to quash.  Objections to
1–18, and 23 are SUSTAINED, for lack of foundation and authentication. The
remaining objections are OVERRULED. 
II.               
MOTION TO
QUASH SERVICE  
a.      Mode of Service
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subd. (a)(1) states: “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further
time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of
motion for one or more of the following purposes . . . (1) To quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” 
Mere notice of litigation does not confer personal jurisdiction absent
substantial compliance with the statutory requirements for service of summons.
(MJS Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 555, 557.)
While
courts are not required to accept self-serving evidence — such as declarations
that one was not served — submitted to support a motion to quash, facial
defects of the proof of service will rebut its presumption of proper service. (American Exp. Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.) The
burden is on a plaintiff to prove facts showing that service was effective. (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)
Defendant
Cosentino Group, S.A. (Defendant) is a Spanish corporation with its principle
place of business in Spain. (Vela Decl. ¶ 4.) Service upon a person outside the
United States is subject to the provisions of the Hague Service Convention.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 413.10, subd. 9c).) 
Here, Defendant was
served via personal service upon one of its executives on September 6, 2023, at
an event in Vancouver, British Columbia. (See 9/25/2023 Proof of
Service.) Defendant argues that this service was improper under Article 10 of
the Hague Service Convention, which states: “Provided the State of destination does not object, the present
Convention shall not interfere with . . . the freedom of any person interested
in a judicial proceeding to effect service of judicial documents directly
through the judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the
State of destination.” (20 U.S.T. 361, art. 10, subd. (c).) Defendant argues
that “state of destination” must have a single definition throughout Article
10, and that Plaintiffs cannot choose whether that State is Canada or Spain.
(Motion at pp. 11–12.)
 
Defendant’s
argument is unpersuasive. The “state of destination” in this matter refers to
Canada because Canada was the “destination” of the judicial documents served.
This is in line with Article 1 of the Convention: “The present Convention shall
apply in all cases, in civil or commercial matters, where there is occasion to
transmit a judicial or extrajudicial document for service abroad.” Defendant
presents no authority for the proposition that service lawfully accomplished
upon it in a signatory country is ineffective under the convention. Canada has
not objected to personal service under the Hague Convention (See Joescan,
Inc. v. LMI Technologies, Inc. (W.D. Wash., Aug. 2, 2007, No. C07-5323RJB)
2007 WL 2253319, at *1), and service upon an agent of the corporation is
authorized under the law of British Columbia. (See British Columbia
Supreme Court Civil Rules, Rule 4-3, subd. (2)(b).) Accordingly, Defendant has
identified no basis to grant the motion based on the mode of service. 
b.      Minimum Contacts
A defendant may serve and file a motion to
quash service of summons on the grounds of a lack of jurisdiction over him or
her. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10 subd. (a)(1).) A plaintiff opposing a motion to
quash service for lack of personal jurisdiction “has the initial burden to
demonstrate facts establishing a basis for personal jurisdiction.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) If satisfied, the burden then shifts to defendant
to show that exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Id.) 
A court may exercise jurisdiction on any
basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of California or of the United
States. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) The exercise of personal jurisdiction is
constitutionally permissible only “if the defendant has sufficient ‘minimum
contacts’ with the forum state so that the exercise of jurisdiction ‘does not
offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” [Citations.]’
” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (“HealthMarkets, Inc.”) (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1166
[citing International Shoe Co. v.
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316].) A defendant’s conduct with the forum
state must be such that the defendant has “fair warning” that its activities
might subject it to personal jurisdiction. (HealthMarkets,
Inc., supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1166–1167; Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 472.) 
“Minimum contacts exist where the defendant's conduct in the forum
state is such that he should reasonably anticipate being subject to suit there,
and it is reasonable and fair to force him to do so. [Citations.] In contrast, contacts that are random, fortuitous,
or attenuated do not rise to the minimum level, and general jurisdiction cannot
be exercised under these circumstances.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v.
Superior Court (“F. Hoffman-La Roche”)
(2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 795.)
A
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action. Absent such extensive contacts, a
defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction, meaning jurisdiction in an
action arising out of or related to the defendant's contacts with the forum
state. Specific jurisdiction depends on the quality and nature of the
defendant's forum contacts in relation to the particular cause of action
alleged.
 
(HealthMarkets, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) 
 
In determining whether specific jurisdiction exists over a
given defendant, “the appropriate inquiry is whether the plaintiff's cause of
action “arises out of or has a substantial connection with a business
relationship defendant has purposefully established with California.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 448.) “[A]s the relationship of the defendant with the
state seeking to exercise jurisdiction over him grows more tenuous, the scope
of jurisdiction also retracts, and fairness is assured by limiting the
circumstances under which the plaintiff can compel him to appear and defend.
The crucial inquiry concerns the character of defendant's activity in the
forum, whether the cause of action arises out of or has a substantial
connection with that activity, and upon the balancing of the convenience of the
parties and the interests of the state in assuming jurisdiction.” (Ibid.)
 
It is the plaintiff’s initial burden to establish the
factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (ViaView v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209–10.) “Once facts
showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it
becomes the defendant's burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.” (Vons Companies,
Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p.
449.) 
 
Defendant argues that it is a Spanish company with its
headquarters in Spain, and which has never done business in California. (Vela
Decl. ¶¶ 4–5.) It argues that it is a holding company that does not sell or
market any products. (Vela Decl. ¶ 6.) It has a U.S.-based subsidiary company,
based in Florida, which is an independent company with control over its own
day-to-day operations and separate assets and employees. (Vela Decl. ¶¶ 7–8.)
Accordingly, Defendant argues that there is no basis to find either general or
specific jurisdiction over itself in California.  
 
Plaintiffs in opposition present a number of documents
pulled from Cosentino.com, describing Cosentino Group as a “global Spanish
family-owned company that produces and distributes high value innovative and
sustainable surfaces.” (Metzger Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiffs present a number of
other documents from the website, press-releases and stories regarding
Cosentino, regarding myriad operations across the United States, including
multiple “centers” in California using the Cosentino watermark. (Opposition at
pp. 13–16.) Plaintiffs acknowledge that this evidence is not authenticated,  but argue that they have been  prevented from authenticating these documents
(and obtaining responses to other written discovery sent to Defendant) by
Defendant’s service of objections to the discovery at issue. (Opposition at p.
13; Young Decl. Exhs. A–C.) Plaintiffs also note that Eduardo Cosentino is the
CEO of Cosentino North America, as well as a member of Defendant’s steering
committee, executive committee, and its board of directors.(Opposition at p.
14.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated
that this court possesses specific jurisdiction over Defendant. As Plaintiffs
acknowledge, their evidence concerning Defendant’s contacts with California
consist of unauthenticated web pages and press statements. Yet even assuming
this evidence were authenticated and admitted, however, it would not
demonstrate jurisdiction over Defendant, as the evidence presented overly
describes and is consistent with the activities of Defendant’s North American
subsidiary:
Mere ownership of a subsidiary in the forum state
does not constitute purposeful availment. A parent company purposefully avails
itself of forum benefits through the activities of its subsidiary, as required
to justify the exercise of specific personal jurisdiction, if and only if the
parent deliberately directs the subsidiary's activities in, or having a
substantial connection with, the forum state.
(BBA Aviation PLC v. Superior
Court (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 421, 436, internal quotation marks and
citations omitted.)  There has been no
showing that Defendant exercises day-to-day control over its North American
subsidiary. The CEO of the subsidiary is on the steering committee of
Defendant, but “[i]t is considered a normal attribute of ownership that
officers and directors of the parent serve as officers and directors of the
subsidiary.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 548–549.) And while the subsidiary uses the Cosentino name and
trademark, but there is no authority “for the claim that the mere appearance of
a parent's logo on its subsidiary's documents constitutes pervasive control
over day-to-day operations.” (BBA Aviation PLC v. Superior Court (2010)
190 Cal.App.4th 421, 434.)
Plaintiffs have not made a
showing that a continuance to conduct jurisdictional discovery is necessary. “In
order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery,
the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the
production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.” (In re
Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) The
evidence that Plaintiff presents with this motion is consistent with the
parent-subsidiary relationship, and Plaintiff has not shown a likelihood of
rebutting the existence of this relationship through the promulgation of the
discovery that it offers. (Young Decl. Exhs. 1–4.)
The motion to quash is therefore
GRANTED.     
 
III.            
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Caesarstone USA, Inc. (Defendant) argues that
Plaintiffs’ claims for negligence and failure to warn are not pleaded with
requisite specificity as to the time frame of exposure or causation of
Plaintiff’s injury. (Demurrer at pp. 6–8.) 
Defendant also argues that the cause of action for concealment is
inadequately pleaded. (Demurrer at p. 9.) 
 
Defendant’s arguments as to the uncertainty of the Complaint
are undeveloped and unpersuasive. Defendant does not contend that any element
is not actually alleged in the First Amended Complaint (FAC), but only that the
elements contained are alleged in overly general terms. But the allegations of
the FAC are adequately set forth. Plaintiffs identify the products that they
claim caused harm, the work sites where they were used, and the applicable
time-frame. (FAC ¶¶ 36–37.) Plaintiff alleges causation in the form of
inhalation of silica, metals, and other toxins that arose from working with the
products alleged. (FAC ¶¶ 38–39.) The FAC also contains specific allegations as
to inadequate warnings provided by Defendant, including unhelpful guides as to
the proper respirator to use. (FAC ¶¶ 423–404.) 
 
Defendant’s argument as to the fraud claim is also
unpersuasive. Although fraud must be pleaded with particularity (See Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645), “it is
harder to apply the requirement of specificity to a case of simple
nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something didn't
happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?” (Jones v. ConocoPhilips (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199, internal quotation marks omitted.) Likewise, “less
specificity is required of a complaint when it appears from the nature of the
allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy; even under the strict rules of common
law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when
the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 838, internal quotation
marks, citations, and alterations omitted.)
 
In Jones v.
ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, family members of a deceased
employee, Carlos, at certain tire and rubber companies brought suit against 19
manufacturers of 34 chemical products, alleging that each had contributed to
the death of Carlos. (Id. at p.
1191.) The complaint listed the defendants’ products to which Carlos had been
exposed, then explained:
 
[A]s
a result of Carlos's exposure to the foregoing toxic chemical products, toxins
within said toxic chemicals entered Carlos's body. Each of the foregoing toxic
chemical products contain organic solvents and cardiotoxic, hepatotoxic,
nephrotoxic and other toxic chemicals, which by and through their cardiotoxic,
hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic nature, caused Carlos's chemically induced
cirrhosis of the liver, chemically induced cardiomyopathy and chemically
induced kidney failure and other injuries. Each toxin that entered Carlos's
body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, and aggravating
Carlos's chemically induced cirrhosis of the liver, chemically induced
cardiomyopathy and chemically induced kidney failure and other injuries.
 
(Id. at p. 1192,
internal alterations omitted.) The court described the complaint as alleging
the following with regard to defendants’ knowledge of these toxic products and
their concealment:
 
[T]he
amended complaint alleges defendants were “aware of the toxic nature of their
products” and “owed a duty to disclose the toxic properties of their products
to [Carlos] because [they] alone had knowledge of material facts, to wit the
toxic properties of their products, which were not available to [Carlos].” It
also alleges defendants owed a duty to disclose because they “made
representations regarding their products, but failed to disclose additional
facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the
disclosures made likely to mislead [Carlos].” These conclusory allegations are
supplemented with respect to the single compound, DMF. The Joneses cite studies
published as early as 1969 attesting to DMF's toxicity, several years before
Carlos began working at Goodyear where he was exposed to the Dow product
containing DMF.
 
(Id. at pp. 1199–1200.)
The trial court had sustained a
demurrer to the complaint for failing to plead fraudulent concealment with
specificity, but the court of appeal reversed. Taking note of the above
allegations, the court noted its general inquiry in assessing whether a complaint
had pleaded fraud with the requisite specificity was to determine “whether the .
. . complaint, considered as a whole, provides defendants with sufficient
notice of the particular claims against them.” (Id. at p. 1200.) The court concluded that, based on the allegations
in the complaint,
[E]ach
defendant has received notice of the particular product it made that was used
at the Goodyear and Upjohn plants at which Carlos worked. The pleading further
alleges these products “contained significant concentrations of organic
solvents ... and other toxic chemicals” and “[t]he toxicity of various organic
solvents to the liver and kidney has long been recognized.” Each defendant is
therefore on notice that it allegedly concealed or failed to disclose the toxic
properties of the product it sold to Goodyear and Upjohn during the course of
Carlos's employment. Although sparse, nothing more is required at this early
stage of the litigation.
(Id. at p. 1200.)
Plaintiffs’ allegations here are essentially similar.
Plaintiffs identify each manufacturer and the products that they allege caused
them harm. (FAC at pp. 6–26.) The FAC alleges that as a result of exposure to
these products, the toxins contained within them, “including silica, metals,
and other toxic substances,” entered Luna-Reyes’s body. (FAC ¶ 483.) It is
alleged that these toxic materials caused Luna-Reyes’s silicosis. (FAC ¶¶
484–485.) As with Jones, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants knew of the
toxic nature of their products, and had a duty to disclose this information
based on their superior knowledge, which was “not accessible to Plaintiff.”
(FAC ¶ 475.) Plaintiffs’ support their allegations of Defendants’ knowledge
with further allegations of the history of silicosis and the stone industry’s
knowledge of these hazards (FAC ¶¶ 47–71), as well as studies performed on the
particular types of products at issue here dating back to 1997. (FAC ¶¶ 85–96.)
As with Jones, Plaintiffs’ FAC gives notice to Defendant of the
particular products that he used at the particular locations, and alleges that
they contained certain types of long-recognized toxic chemicals. Defendant is
on notice of the allegations against it. 
 
As to Defendant’s argument that Plaintiffs fails to “allege
the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written” (Tenet Health System Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of
California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 838), this argument has
little persuasive application to a fraudulent concealment claim, as the nature
of the allegation is that no corporate representative disclosed the
information to Plaintiff. The question of which corporate officer was
responsible for the alleged concealment, or ought to have been responsible for
disclosure, is a fact which “lie[s] more in the knowledge” of Defendants, and
thus need not be pleaded with specificity. (Id. at p. 838.)
 
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED.
 
IV.            
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a)). The court then may strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading and
strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable
of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
Defendant Caesarstone USA moves to strike Plaintiffs’
request for punitive damages and related allegations. (Motion at pp. 6–8.)
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) The terms are defined as:
1.      “Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
2.      “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.
3.     
“Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit,
or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on
the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).)
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
“Fraud” is among the permissible bases that
may support an award of exemplary damages. As noted in relation to Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraudulent concealment, the
allegations here are sufficient to maintain a fraud claim. They are likewise
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  
The motion is therefore DENIED.