 Case Number:  23STCV20963    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
Lin Dong, Guoqing Li, and Chloe Li’s Motion to Transfer Venue to Riverside
County is GRANTED. Sanctions are ordered against Plaintiffs’ counsel in the
amount of $961.65
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
TRANSFER VENUE
“The court may, on timely
motion, order transfer of an action when the court designated in the complaint
is not the proper court. The moving party must overcome the presumption that
the plaintiff has selected the proper venue. Thus, it is the moving defendant's
burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff's venue selection is not proper under
any of the statutory grounds.” (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)
Defendants Lin Dong, Guoqing
Li, and Chloe Li (Defendants) move to transfer venue to Riverside County under
Code of Civil Procedure § 395, subd. (a), as this is the county “where the
defendants or some of them reside,” as well as the county where the alleged
“injury occur[red].” (Motion at p. 4.) Indeed, the Complaint alleges that
“[v]enue is proper in Riverside County because all of the allegations herein
named occurred in this County, and the Plaintiffs and Defendants both reside in
this county.” (Complaint ¶ 9.)
Plaintiffs in opposition
effectively confirm the allegation in the Complaint that venue is proper in
Riverside County. Plaintiffs’ counsel, Jacob Partiyeli, indeed states that he
only filed the action in Los Angeles County after repeated attempts to file in
Riverside County resulted in clerk’s rejection of the pleadings. (Motion at p.
1.) Plaintiffs now argue, however, that they have changed their minds as to
venue because, according to Partiyeli, “most, if not all, of the Plaintiffs’
witnesses reside in Los Angeles County, and such crucial witnesses are senior
citizens.” (Partiyeli Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs further argue that the motion is
untimely. (Opposition at pp. 2–3.)
Plaintiffs have no basis
to oppose the present motion. The motion is timely, as the date for filing a
motion to change venue is the same as the date to file a responsive pleading
(Code Civ. Proc. 396b, subd. (a)), which here was extended by Defendants’
filing of a declaration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subd.
(a)(2).) This was pointed out in Defendants’ initial motion. (Motion at p. 3.) Nor
is there any basis to retain jurisdiction of this action for “the convenience of the witnesses or the ends
of justice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 396b, subd. (d).) Plaintiffs advance no
evidence on this point except the vague assurance that unnamed, unnumbered, and
unexplained “witnesses,” reside in Los Angeles County. (Opposition at pp. 4–5.)
This is insufficient basis to maintain the case in what Plaintiffs’ counsel
knew at the outset to be the wrong venue. 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel is subject to sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure § 396b, for opposing this motion and failing to accept Defendants’
stipulation to transfer:
 
(b) In its discretion, the court may order
the payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses and attorney's fees
incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer whether or not that
party is otherwise entitled to recover his or her costs of action. In
determining whether that order for expenses and fees shall be made, the court
shall take into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to change of
venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether the motion or selection
of venue was made in good faith given the facts and law the party making the
motion or selecting the venue knew or should have known. As between the party
and his or her attorney, those expenses and fees shall be the personal
liability of the attorney not chargeable to the party. Sanctions shall not be
imposed pursuant to this subdivision except on notice contained in a party's
papers, or on the court's own noticed motion, and after opportunity to be
heard.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 396b, subd. (b).) Defendants sent repeated
correspondence to Plaintiffs prior to the bringing of this motion, seeking
either this action’s dismissal and re-filing in Riverside, or a stipulation to
change venue. (Rasmussen Decl. Exhs. A, B.) Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond
to these inquiries, and instead served discovery upon Defendants. (Rasmussen
Decl. Exh. B.) There was no good faith basis to oppose this motion.
 
The motion is GRANTED. Sanctions are awarded against Plaintiffs’ counsel
in the amount of $961.65, per the declaration of Defendants’ counsel.
(Rasmussen Decl. ¶¶ 10–11.) 
 
Dated: January 29, 2024