  Case Number:  22SMCV00044    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Gulf Coast Bank & Trust Company’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in the amount of $662,007.39.Plaintiff Gulf Coast Bank & Trust Company shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Plaintiff Gulf Coast Bank & Trust Company to give notice.REASONINGPlaintiff Gulf Coast Bank & Trust Company, as successor-in-interest to Bank of America, N.A. (“Plaintiff”) moves for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of written agreement and second cause of action for breach of guaranty on the grounds that Defendant Gailani Dental Group, LLC (“the LLC”) breached the subject agreement, and Dunia Gailani (“Gailani”) failed to meet her obligations pursuant to her personal guaranty. Defendants Gailani Dental Group, LLC and Dunia Gailani (“Defendants”) oppose the motion on the ground that Plaintiff did not provide evidence authenticated with personal knowledge. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff sued the wrong party because the loan was issued to Dunia Gailani, DDS, Inc., the LLC did not sign the loan agreement, and Gailani guaranteed only the obligations of Dunia Gailani, DDS, Inc., not the LLC.Request for Judicial NoticePlaintiff requests judicial notice of the State of California Secretary of State Domestic Stock Corporation Certificate of Dissolution filed February 16, 2021. Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendants objected to Plaintiff’s evidence on the ground that Joel Daste, an officer for Plaintiff, lacked personal knowledge related to this loan because Plaintiff had nothing to do with the loan at the time the relevant events occurred. All of the undisputed material facts provided by Plaintiff to support its motion were based on the declaration of Joel Daste. The Court sustained Defendants’ objections and required Plaintiff to submit a supplemental brief and declaration authenticating the evidence. On November 25, 2024, Plaintiff submitted the declaration of Tamara J. Laughinghouse, Director at Bank of America, and the Court finds that the subject records have now been sufficiently authenticated. Thus, Defendants’ objections are OVERRULED.AnalysisPlaintiff provides evidence that on February 7, 2018, Defendant Dunia Gailani, DDS, Inc. (“Gailani Inc.) executed a Finance Agreement to Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest, pursuant to which Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest agreed to make a term loan to Gailani Inc. for business purposes in the amount of $1,070,828. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 1-3.) Gailani Inc. promised to pay the loan in accordance with a repayment schedule, and Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest was advised that Defendant Dunia Gailani had set up a limited liability company for her dental practice for use of the loan, thereby substituting Gailani Dental Group LLC (“Gailani Dental”) as the borrower. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 4, 5.) On February 19, 2013, Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest and Gailani Dental executed the repayment schedule for the permanent loan in the principal amount of $1,070,828, and Gailani Dental was to repay the principal amount of $1,070,828.00 plus interest thereon at the rate of 5.40% per annum. (Pl.’s UMF No. 6.) The final terms for the permanent loan were set forth in the repayment schedule, were in supplement to and not in replacement of the initial agreement, and were merged into and became part of the agreement. (No. 7.) Except as modified by the repayment schedule, all other terms and conditions of the agreement remained unchanged and in full force and effect. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also provides evidence that Defendant Dunia Gailani executed a guaranty of Gailani Dental’s indebtedness to Plaintiff, existing at the time of execution of the guaranty and thereafter. (Pl.’s UMF No. 21.)Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest provided all consideration and performed all of the terms and conditions of the agreement required to be performed by it and in particular by providing to Defendants all money that was the subject of the agreement. (Pl.’s UMF No. 8.) The terms of the loan documents provide that Gailani Dental shall notify of any change in the location of its business location, and it shall not relocate the collateral, as defined in the agreement, without prior permission, it shall comply with financial reporting requirements as requested by Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest, and it shall further maintain all required licenses and not suffer any suspension of its operations by any governmental entity. (Pl.’s UMF No. 9.)On or about July 1, 2021, Gailani Dental breached the terms of the loan documents by failing to provide the financial documents requested by Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest pursuant to the terms of the loan documents, its failure to respond to Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest’s inquiries, Gailani Dental’s moving of the collateral, and its suspension by the California Secretary of State and Franchise Tax Board. (Pl.’s UMF No. 10.) On August 1, 2021, Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest notified Defendants of the defaults and provided 30 days for Defendants to cure said defaults. (Pl.’s UMF No. 11.) On September 1, 2021, Plaintiff s predecessor-in-interest sent a follow-up demand letter to Defendants, advised them that they had failed to cure their defaults as set forth in the demand letter, and accordingly accelerated the balance due pursuant to the terms of the loan documents and imposed the default rate of interest. (Pl.’s UMF No. l2.) Gailani Dental is suspended by the California Secretary of State and Franchise Tax Board. (Pl.’s UMF No. 13.) Defendants are also in monetary default for failing to repay the loan since October 20, 2021. (Pl.’s UMF No. 14.) On October 24, 2023, Bank of America sold all its rights in connection with the loan at issue in this case to Gulf Coast Bank and Trust Company. (Pl.’s UMF No. 15.) As of July 9, 2024, the amount owed by Defendants to Plaintiff is $662,007.39, consisting of $577,239.74 in principal and $84,767.65 in interest, with further interest accruing at the rate of $86.59 per day. (Pl.’s UMF No. 16.)This evidence allows Plaintiff to meet its burden of showing that Defendants are liable for breach of the agreement and breach of guaranty. (See Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821 [to establish a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff”]; Gray1 CPB, LLC v. Kolokotronis (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486 [the elements of cause of action for breach of guaranty are “1) there is a valid guaranty, 2) the borrower has defaulted, and 3) the guarantor failed to perform under the guaranty”].)In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff sued the wrong party because the loan was issued to Gailani Inc., Gailani Dental did not sign the loan agreement, and Dunia Gailani guaranteed only the obligations of Gailani Inc., not Gailani Dental. As to whether Plaintiff sued the right entity, the repayment schedule, specifically the final disbursement, modified the borrower to be Gailani Dental, and Gailani Inc. was terminated before that document was signed. (Mot., Khatchadourian Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 3, at Ex. 2; Req. for Judicial Notice.) It follows that Gailani Dental is then liable as the borrower under the agreement, and Gailani guaranteed the obligations of Gailani Dental. Given that Defendants provide no other evidence or argument to dispute Plaintiff’s evidence, there is no triable issue of material fact as to either claim. Accordingly, Plaintiff Gulf Coast Bank & Trust Company’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in the amount of $662,007.39. Plaintiff Gulf Coast Bank & Trust Company shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.