 Case Number:  22SMCV02738    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Teresa Zarate Gomez’s Motion to Compel Further Deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions is DENIED.Plaintiff Teresa Zarate Gomez to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Teresa Zarate Gomez (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order (1) compelling the further deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”)’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) witness and compelling Defendant to produce a PMK witness for allMatters of Examination requested in Plaintiff’s Notice of PMK Deposition and (2) compellingDefendant to produce all responsive documents requested in Plaintiff’s Notice of PMKDeposition within ten (10) calendar days. Plaintiff argues that she was effectively precluded from taking the deposition of Defendant’s PMK because Defendant failed to produce responsive documents. Defendant opposes the motion on the ground that Plaintiff was provided a meaningful opportunity to depose the PMK, the PMK answered all questions that were asked, and Plaintiff sought to depose the PMK on issues unrelated to the issue identified in the Notice of Deposition.“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) An oral deposition of a party may be taken after service of a deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.210, 2025.220.) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges that her 2019 Honda Odyssey suffered from transmission system defects. (Compl. ¶¶ 8, 10.) In the Fourth Amended Notice of Deposition, Plaintiff sought information related to transmission defects, among other documents. (Mot., Enav Decl. ¶ 16, Ex. 2.) In response, Defendant produced 1,517 pages of responsive documents, but Plaintiff now seeks documents relating to a specific recall relating to the fuel pump, which was not identified in the Notice of Deposition. Plaintiff argues that Defendant should have sought a protective order to limit the scope of the deposition notice, but there is no basis to conclude a protective order was necessary as to issues not identified in the deposition notice. Further, because Plaintiff did not meet and confer with Defendant as to the missing documents, instead identifying certain documents in the reply, she failed to allow Defendant to produce any documents that Plaintiff believes exists and were sought in the Notice of Deposition but were not produced. Plaintiff seeks information as to a fuel pump, which has not been placed at issue in the complaint, nor was it identified in the Notice of Deposition. For that reason, Plaintiff Teresa Zarate Gomez’s Motion to Compel Further Deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions is DENIED.