 Case Number:  23STCP03199    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  82 Safariland, LLC                                                        Case No. 23STCP03199
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: May 22, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Department of                                        Department:
82  
General
Services                                                       Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
[Tentative] Order
Denying Petition for Writ of Mandate   
INTRODUCTION
 
            Petitioner
Safariland, LLC (“Petitioner”) submitted a bid to provide body armor to the State
of California under the Alternative Protest Pilot Project (“APPP”).  (Pub. Contract Code 
§§ 12125 et seq.)  The California Department of General Services
(“Respondent” or the “Department”) awarded the contract to another company.  Petitioner sought to protest the award.  The APPP protest regulations required
Petitioner to submit its protest, including a filing fee and arbitration
deposit, to the coordinator of the APPP (the “APPP Coordinator”) on or before July
25, 2023.  Petitioner submitted its written
statement of protest with the APPP Coordinator by the deadline.  However, Petitioner did not satisfy the
deadline for the filing fee and arbitration deposit because the check was sent
to the wrong address.  Therefore,
Respondent did not consider Petitioner’s protest.  Now, Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate
directing Respondent to accept Petitioner’s complete protest package and process
it on the merits.  The court denies the
writ.  
 
BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
            A.        Overview of the Alternative Protest
Pilot Project
 
The
regulations governing the APP state: 
 
An unsuccessful
bidder who intends to protest the awarded contract . . . must inform the
Coordinator.  The Notice of Intent to
Protest must be in writing and must reach the Coordinator within the number of
days specified in the Solicitation, which shall be . . . not more than 5
working days after the posting of the Notice of Intent to Award Contract, as
specified in the Solicitation.  Failure
to give written notice by Close of Business on that day shall waive the right
to protest.
 
 (1 Cal. Code Regs. § 1406(a).)  The regulations define how an unsuccessful
bidder shall file a protest:
 
A protest is filed by the submission of: the Detailed
Written Statement of Protest and any exhibits specified in section 1412; a
check or money order made payable to the Office of Administrative Hearings for
the OAH filing fee of $50; and the arbitration deposit as specified in
subsection (c) or (d) to the Coordinator by the Close of Business on the 7th
working day after the time specified in the Solicitation for written Notice of
Intent to Protest under section 1406. A copy of the Detailed Written Statement
of Protest and exhibits must also be served on all Parties named in the service
list as specified in section 1406. A Protestant who fails to comply with
this subsection waives Protestant's right to protest.  
 
(1 Cal. Code Regs. § 1408(a) [bold
italics added].)  An unsuccessful bidder
may submit a protest via facsimile but must comply with the following
regulation:  
 
Notification by facsimile is sufficient for service. If the
Detailed Written Statement of Protest is sent to the Coordinator by facsimile,
Protestant must: (1) Verify that the pages sent were all received by the
Coordinator; and (2) Remit the required deposit and filing fee to
Coordinator by any reasonable means. If sending via carrier, the
postmark date or equivalent shall be used to determine timeliness.
 
(1 Cal. Code Regs. § 1408(b) [bold
italics added].)  For contracts in excess
of $500,000, the protestor must make a deposit of the estimated arbitration
costs, which is $7,000.  (1 Cal. Code
Regs. § 1408(c)(4).)  
 
            B.        The Request for Proposal and Protest
Procedure 
 
            In
February 2023, the Department’s Procurement Division issued a request for
proposal (“RFP”) for body armor.  (Angeles
Decl. ¶ 8 and Exh. 1; and Pet. Exh. A.) 
As relevant to this writ petition, the RFP stated the following protest
procedure:
 
Bidder is to send the notice of protest to: 
 
Alternative Protest Process Coordinator/Dispute Resolution 
Department of General Services 
Procurement Division 
Purchasing Authority Management Section 
707 Third Street, 2nd Floor South 
West Sacramento, CA 95605 
Fax: 916 / 376-6226 
 
Within seven (7) working days after the last day to submit a
Notice of Intent to Protest, the Coordinator must receive from the protesting
bidder the complete protest filing including the signed, written detailed
statement of protest including exhibits, filing fee and deposit or small
business certification as applicable. Untimely submission of the complete
protest filing waives the bidder’s right to protest.
 
(Id. Exh. 1 at 11; see also
Pet. Exh. A at 19-20 [bold italics added].)
 


 
            C.        The Contract Award and Petitioner’s
Protest
 
On July 12, 2023, the Department
posted its notice of intent to award the contract to Black Box Safety, Inc.  (Angeles Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. 2.)  Two days later, on July 14, 2023,
Petitioner’s Director of Sales Operations, Jason Brown, faxed a written notice
of intent to protest the award.  (Id.
¶ 10, Exh. 3.)  Brown’s cover letter was
addressed to the Department’s “Alternative Protest Process Coordinator.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            On
July 17, 2023, the Procurement Division acknowledged receipt of Petitioner’s
notice of intent to protest the contract award. (Angeles Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. 4.) In
relevant part, the Procurement Division’s letter stated: 
 
The Safariland Group is required to file with the
Procurement Division’s Alternative Protest Coordinator before 5:00 p.m.
(PDT/PST) on Tuesday, July 25, 2023, a complete protest filing in accordance
with 2 CCR, Section 1408…. The [$50 filing] fee and [$7,000 arbitration] deposit
must be in the form of a check or money order made payable to the Office of
Administrative Hearings and remit to the following address: 
 
Department of General Services 
Procurement Division/Alternative Protest Coordinator 
707 3rd Street, 2nd Floor 
West Sacramento, CA 95605
 
….[¶]
 
If the Detailed Written Statement of protest and exhibits
are sent to the Coordinator by facsimile, the Protestant must … remit the
required deposit and filing fee to the Coordinator by any reasonable means. Your
complete protest filing must be received by the Coordinator by the above stated
deadline. You are advised that failure to comply with any of the above
requirements waives your right to protest.
 
(Id. Exh. 5 [bold italics
added].)  Although the checks were to be
made payable to the “Office of Administrative Hearings,” the checks were to be
mailed to “Department of General Services, Procurement Division/Alternative
Protest Coordinator.”  (Ibid.)  
 
On July 25, 2023, Petitioner submitted
by fax its detailed written statement of protest to the Coordinator.  (Angeles Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. 5.)  On page 2, the protest stated that, “[t]he OAH
filing fee of $50 and the arbitration deposit of $7,000 were sent overnight on
Friday July 21st via Fed Ex. The tracking number is 7727 9713 9242.” (Id.,
Exh. 5 at 2.)  However, Petitioner sent
the checks to the wrong address and recipient. 
Specifically, Petitioner sent the checks to:
 
Office of Administrative Hearings 
2349 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 200
Sacramento, California 95833
 
(Brown Decl., ¶¶ 5-6 & Exh. C.)  
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
The petition for
writ of mandate is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and
ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and
beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.
(California Ass’n for Health Services at
Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696,
704.)  “Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency's
performance or to correct an agency's abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)   
 
An agency is presumed
to have regularly performed its official duties.  (Evid. Code § 664.) Generally, the petitioner
“bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)  A reviewing court “will not act as counsel
for either party to an appeal and will not assume the task of initiating and
prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not
pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v.
Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.)
 
The court exercises
“independent judgment” in addressing questions of law.  (See Christensen
v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  “Interpretation of a statute or regulation is
a question of law subject to independent review.”  (Ibid.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The dispute in this case is whether
submitting the checks to the Office of the Administrative Hearings (the “OAH”)
instead of the APPP Coordinator is sufficient to lodge a protest.  Per the regulations, if Petitioner
submits the SOP by facsimile, Petitioner is required to “[r]emit the required
deposit and filing fee to [the] Coordinator by any reasonable
means.  If sending via carrier, the
postmark date of equivalent shall be used to determine timeliness.”  (1 Cal. Code Regs. § 1408(b) [bold italics
added].)  The plain language of the
regulation is clear: The checks must be sent to the APPP Coordinator.[1]  Respondent
submits evidence, which Petitioner does not rebut, that “the Department’s
Procurement Division has never received the checks for the filing fee and
arbitration deposit from Safariland.” 
(Angeles Decl. ¶ 15.)
 
Instead, Petitioner
argues that submitting the checks to the OAH was sufficient.  For example, Petitioner refers to OAH as an
“office” of Department and as the “payee agency.”  (OB 3-4.) 
Petitioner’s
suggestion that delivery to the OAH was, in effect, submission to the APPP Coordinator
lacks factual support.  OAH is an
independent office under the direction and control of the Director of Office of
Administrative Hearings, who is appointed by the Governor and subject to
confirmation by the California Senate.  (Gov.
Code §§ 11370.1 [Director], 11370.2(a) & (b) [OAH].)  Although OAH is part of the Department of
General Services, it serves a different function than the Procurement Division
and is located at a different address. 
Indeed, Respondent represents, and Petitioner does not dispute, that
OAH’s offices are located in a “completely different county (i.e., Yolo
County).”  (Angeles Decl. ¶ 18.)  
 
Petitioner
also suggests that there was no prejudice because the APPP Coordinator’s “sole function” under the regulations is to “gather” the
documents and “transmit[] the protest package to OAH for resolution.”  (OB 3:18-22.) 
Petitioner does not account for the APPP Coordinator’s role in the alternate protest procedure of
screening for frivolous protests.  As stated by the Court of Appeal, “the entire purpose of the
alternate protest procedure is to filter out frivolous protests
expeditiously.  (Imagistics
International, Inc. v. Department of General Services (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 581, 589.)  This process is
designed to be performed quickly.  “A
Protestant who fails to comply with [the submission deadlines] waives
Protestant's right to protest.”  (1 Cal.
Code Regs. § 1408(a).)  If the protest
package if timely submitted, then “[t]he Coordinator shall review the Detailed Written
Statement of Protest within 5 working days after receipt to
preliminarily determine if the protest is Frivolous and notify Protestant of
the option to withdraw or proceed in arbitration.”  (1 Cal. Code Regs. § 1414(b) [bold italics
added].)  If the Coordinator
preliminarily determines that the protest is frivolous, the bidder can either
withdraw the protest or post a bond in an amount not less than 10% of the
estimated contract value to proceed with its protest. (1 Cal. Code Regs. §§
1414(b) and 1418.)  Thus, the Coordinator’s preliminary
determination of frivolousness serves as a deterrent to frivolous protests at
the start of the protest process. 
Petitioner’s interpretation of the regulations, under which the APPP Coordinator
must search for portions of the protest package that were not delivered to the
Coordinator, conflicts with this purpose. 

 
Similarly, Petitioner
argues that it provided the APPP Coordinator with a tracking number showing
that the checks had been sent to OAH. 
Petitioner asserts that the “Coordinator knew, or had the ability to
know, that [Petitioner] had timely submitted all the elements of a valid
Protest specified in the Protest Procedure.” 
(OB 5.)  “[Petitioner’s] assertion
disregards the massive number of contracts and proposals that defendant DGS
administers, and apparently is premised on the belief that it would
be a simple matter to coordinate piecemeal protests ….”  (Imagistics, supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at
589.)  An interpretation of section 1408
under which the protest package need not be sent or delivered directly to the
Coordinator could result in an “uneven and inconsistent administration” of
the procedures and would require time-intensive assessments by the Coordinator,
and ultimately the courts, about whether the protest package was properly
submitted to the Coordinator through some intermediary, such as OAH.  This undermines the purpose of the
regulations.    
 
Petitioner contends that
Respondent cannot “invoke” section 1408 and require submission of the complete
protest package to the Coordinator because “DGS … did not designate a specific
human being as the Coordinator in the RFP.” 
(OB 8-9.)  Petitioner’s argument is
unpersuasive.  The “Coordinator” is defined as “the person designated as
the Alternative Protest Pilot Project Coordinator by the Department of General
Services, Procurement Division, to coordinate all aspects of the Solicitation
under the Alternative Protest Pilot Project.” 
(1 Cal. Code Regs. § 1402(e).)  That
person was Cheryl
Angeles, Department’s Section Manager of the Purchasing Authority Management
Section in the Procurement Division, between February 1, 2023, and January 30,
2024.  (Angeles Decl. ¶ 2.)[2]  Petitioner cites no authority that any
specific form of action was required for Department to designate Angeles as the
APPP Coordinator during this period.  Nor
does Petitioner cite any requirement that the RFP specifically identify the
APPP Coordinator.  The RFP clearly informed the bidders that the notice of protest
and complete protest package must be delivered to the “Alternative Protest
Process Coordinator” and specified the Coordinator’s address in West
Sacramento.   (Angeles Decl. Exh. 1 at
11; see also Pet. Exh. A at 19-20.) 
Petitioner faxed its notice of intent to protest and SOP directly to the
unnamed Coordinator.  (Angeles Decl. Exh.
¶¶ 10, 12, Exh. 3, 4, 5.) 
 
In the alternative, Petitioner contends that it “substantially
complied with the requirements of 1 CCR 1408(a) by timely delivering
its Detailed Written Statement of Protest to the Coordinator and the two
required checks directly to OAH.” 
(Opening Brief (“OB”) 6-7 [bold italics added].)  Petitioner cites no authority suggesting that
“substantial compliance” is sufficient to comply with the regulations.  To the contrary, the cases interpreting the
regulations hold otherwise.  (See Imagistics
International, Inc. v. Department of General Services (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 581.)  In Imagistics, the petitioner
sought to challenge a contract awarded by the Department to a competitor.  Although the petitioner timely submitted the
written statement of protest, it failed to submit the filing fee and
arbitration deposit by the deadline, and omitted the exhibits from the
protest.  The Department terminated the
protest, and the petitioner sought a petition for writ of mandate, arguing that
it had “substantially complied” with the regulations.  The trial court rejected the argument and the
District Court of Appeal affirmed that decision, reasoning in relevant part: 
 
[T]he regulation
does not grant the protest coordinator any discretion to accept a late filing;
rather, it specifically calls for forfeiture of a protest for noncompliance.
Under these circumstances, the doctrine of substantial compliance is
inapplicable, as a court does not have the power to issue a writ of mandate to
accept a late filing.  (Barnes v. Wong (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 390, 395–397, 39 Cal.Rptr.2d 417 [ordinance not allowing
discretionary acceptance of late filing (in absence of good faith mistake
regarding deadline) represents “sound policy” avoiding “uneven and inconsistent
administration of preelection procedures and is the most reliable  way
to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and equally”; no discretion to abuse
or any ministerial duty to petitioner to accept late filing, so mandate will
not lie]; Sonoma County Nuclear Free Zone '86
v. Superior Court (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 167, 176–178, 234 Cal.Rptr. 357 [no abuse of discretion in
setting deadline; no discretion to ignore deadline, so mandate will not lie].)
 
(Imagistics,
supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at 588-589.)  Petitioner
attempts to distinguish Imagistics, arguing that it governs only the
issue of timing.  In the absence of clear
authority supporting Petitioner’s argument, the court follows the reasoning of Imagistics:
The regulation does not grant the APPP Coordinator—or this court—discretion to
deviate from its requirements; the regulation expressly calls for forfeiture of
a protest for non-compliance; and the doctrine of substantial compliance is
inapplicable.
 
Petitioner argues that “[w]hile
timely filing of a notice of appeal is jurisdictional … a failure to pay the
associated fees is a matter which is always subject to cure.”  (OB 7, citing Rapp v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co.
(1994) 24 Cal. App. 4th 1167, 1172-1173.) 
Rapp concerned Rules of Court governing the submission of the
filing fee for an appeal.  Petitioner does
not show any similarity between the Rules of Court at issue in Rapp and
the pertinent language in section 1408. 
Accordingly, Rapp is inapposite. 
“An opinion is not authority for propositions not
considered.”  (People v. Knoller (2007)
41 Cal.4th 139, 154-55.)  
  
Finally, Petitioner raises policy
arguments, stating: “[T]here is simply no justification for elevating the place
of the timely tender of a filing fee to jurisdictional status.  The notion runs contrary to established
procedural practice in this state and deprives Safariland of a right granted to
it by statute. This Court cannot sanction such an unwarranted interpretation or
application of an administrative regulation.” 
(OB 8.)  The court must interpret
and enforce the APPP regulations as they are written.  Petitioner’s policy arguments concerning the
wisdom or fairness of specific attributes of the protest procedures should be
directed at the Legislature.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s
petition for writ of mandate is denied.
 
            2.         Either
party may lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            3.         Respondent’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: May 22, 2024                                                  ____________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


