  Case Number:  22STCP02764    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  82 Michael Lynn Waters                                                          Case No. 22STCP02764
                                                                                                
v.
                                                                                Hearing
Date: May 22, 2024
                                                                                                Department:
Stanley Mosk #82
Probation
Department                                                         Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Petitioner
Michael Lynn Waters (“Petitioner”) was charged with shooting at his
then-girlfriend with the intention of murdering or seriously injuring her.  The case proceeded to trial in 1998, but
there was a disposition between the People and Petitioner.  The probation department prepared a “pre-plea
report.”  The report states: “In
accordance with the Court’s order prohibiting probation department interviews
with defendants for pre-plea probation reports in Los Angeles County, the
Defendant in this case has not been interviewed.”  Petitioner is still in custody and has been
denied parole by the Parole Board. 
Petitioner previously filed a petition for habeas corpus arguing that “the
Board used a false probation officer’s report when determining Petitioner’s
suitability for parole.”  The court
(Ryan, J.) denied the petition on October 28, 2019, finding “Preliminarily, the
Board is entitled to rely on the probation officer’s report.”  The court also noted that Petitioner “was
provided the chance during his [parole] hearing to present mitigation evidence,
which the Board took into consideration in rendering its decision.”  
 
Now,
Petitioner has filed a writ of mandamus against the Probation Department (the
“Probation Department” or “Respondent”) due to “racial discrimination, fraud,
and [under the] Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.”  Petitioner seeks an order directing “the Probation
Department to forward a copy of the order they received, prohibiting Probation
Department from interviewing Defendants in Los Angeles County for the
presentencing report, (within) (30) days after receiving the order . . .
.”  (Petition for Writ of Mandate
(“Pet.”) at 9.)  In the alternative,
Petitioner seeks an order recommending resentencing.  (Ibid.)  
 
The
court (Beckloff, J.) noticed its own motion for judgment on the pleadings, as
authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 438(b)(2).  The court reviewed Petitioner’s opposition
brief.  Following a hearing, the court
grants the motion for judgment on the pleadings and dismisses this case with
prejudice.    
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
The
court may upon its own motion grant a motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(b)(2).
The court may grant the motion in favor of the respondent when the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that
respondent. (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(c)(3)(B)(ii).  “The grounds for motion provided for in this section shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 438(d).)
 
In
ruling on the motion, “[the court] assume[s] the truth of the allegations in
the complaint, but … not … the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v.
State (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  The
allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner
on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v
Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Although
Petitioner does not specify whether he seeks a writ under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5 or 1085, it appears that Petitioner seeks relief under
section 1085, which authorizes writ relief “to compel the performance of an act
which the law specially enjoins.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1085(a).)  There are
two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under
section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) 
“Generally, mandamus is
available to compel a public agency’s performance or to correct an agency's
abuse of discretion when the action being compelled or corrected is
ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  “A
ministerial act is an act that a public officer is required to perform in a
prescribed manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority and without
regard to his or her own judgment or opinion concerning such act’s propriety or
impropriety, when a given state of facts exists.” (Ibid.)
 
            The petition seeks a writ directing
Respondent to produce a copy of the court’s order prohibiting the probation
department from interviewing defendants for pre-plea probation reports.  As an initial matter, in the court’s
experience taking felony pleas, defendants are not interviewed for pre-plea
probation reports in order to preserve their Fifth Amendment right against
self-incrimination.  Because that rule
exists for the protection of defendants, presumably, the court would have made
an exception had Petitioner requested leave from the court to speak with the
probation officer.  But there is no
record that Petitioner ever challenged that order during the criminal
proceedings.  
 
Regardless,
the petition seeking a copy of the court’s order from the Probation Department
is defective.  Even assuming that the
Probation Department still has a copy of the court’s order—which was issued at
least 26 years ago—there is no legal basis upon which the Probation Department
would have a clear, present, and ministerial duty to produce the order to
Petitioner at this juncture, decades after his criminal trial and conviction.  Petitioner does not allege that he made a
request for the order pursuant to a discovery procedure authorized by law.  (See e.g. Penal Code § 1054.9.)  Nor does Petitioner allege that he served a
California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) request upon the Probation Department or
that any such request was denied.[1]  Accordingly, the petition does not allege
that Respondent has a clear, present, and ministerial duty to produce the court’s
order to Petitioner.  
 
            The petition also seeks, in the
alternative, an order directing Respondent to “recommend resentencing.”  (Pet. 9.) 
On the cover page of the petition, Petitioner alleges that the petition
is “due to racial discrimination, fraud, and [sic] equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment”, and that if such is shown, “the Compton Probation
Department must recommend that the Petitioner be resentenced before his elderly
parole hearing on (Aug 29, 2022).”  (Pet.
1.)  In the “Argument” sections of his
petition, Petitioner asserts that: (1) statistical data would show that the
Compton Probation Department has never placed a false document into a white
defendants’ central prison file, whereas Petitioner’s presentence report was
“completely false”; (2) sentencing determinations must be based on reliable
evidence, not speculation or unfounded allegations; (3) certain parts of the
testimony of the alleged victim in Petitioner’s criminal trial, Karen Evans,
were “physically impossible”; and (4) Respondent never received an order from
“anyone” prohibiting Respondent from interviewing “Defendants” in Los Angeles
County for the purpose of presentencing reports.  (Pet. 1-8.) 
In his opposition brief filed March 21, 2024, Petitioner argues that he
was denied a due process right to review the “false probation report” during or
after sentencing; that the false report is the “heart” of this case; that
“false evidence” was used in Petitioner’s criminal trial and at sentencing; and
that Petitioner was denied counsel during his presentencing interview, a
“critical stage” of the criminal proceedings. 
(Oppo. filed 3/21/24 at 1-4.)  
 
            Petitioner’s request for a writ
directing Respondent to recommend resentencing is, in effect, a collateral
attack on his criminal conviction.  Petitioner
cannot attack his criminal conviction in this civil action.  “[Petitioner’s] civil challenge to his
criminal conviction is barred by the established rule that civil actions may
not be used to challenge ‘the validity of outstanding criminal judgments.’”  (Brown v. County of Los Angeles (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 320, 322.)  “Using a civil
suit to collaterally attack an outstanding criminal conviction contravenes the
‘strong judicial policy against the creation of two conflicting resolutions
arising out of the same or identical transaction.’”  (Id. at 323.) 
To raise civil claims related to his criminal conviction, “a [civil]
plaintiff must prove that the conviction or sentence has been reversed
on direct appeal, expunged by executive order, declared invalid by a state
tribunal authorized to make such a determination, or called into question by a
federal court's issuance of a writ of habeas corpus.”  (Id. at 322-323.)  Petitioner does not allege that any such
challenges to his criminal conviction have been sustained.  Further, the court (Ryan, J.) has already
ruled that it was not improper for the Parole Board to rely on a probation report
prepared without interviewing Petitioner because he had an opportunity to
present testimony during the parole hearing. 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants the motion for
judgment on the pleadings.
 
            2.         The court denies leave to amend, as no
amendment would cure the deficiencies in this petition.  
 
            3.         The court dismisses this case with
prejudice.
 
            4.         Respondent’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  


