 Case Number:  22PSCV03008    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Unverified Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Unverified Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano’s Complaint is
DENIED.
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc. to file its
Answer in ten (10) days.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action. In January 2021,
Plaintiff Elias Delgado Serano was climbing a ladder at a property in La Puente
when Delgado Serano slipped and fell. Delgado Serano alleges the property was
owned, maintained, managed, and operated by Defendants Mian Construction and Al
Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc. (Al Bayaan).
 
On December 20, 2022, Delgado Serano filed a complaint
against Mian Construction, Al Bayaan, and Does 1-10, alleging (1) premises
liability and (2) general negligence.
 
On January 16, 2024, Al Bayaan filed the present demurrer
and motion to strike. On March 4, the court continued the hearing on the
demurrer and motion to strike in order for parties to further meet and confer.
 
A hearing on the present motion is set for April 8, 2024,
along with a case management conference.
 
DEMURRER

Al Bayaan demurs to Delgado Serano’s entire
Complaint on the grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts to state a
claim. For the following reasons, the court OVERRULES Al Bayaan’s
demurrer.
 
Legal Standard

Demurrer
 
A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Premises Liability and Negligence
 
“[P]remises liability and negligence rest on
the same elements—namely, (1) a legal duty of care, (2) breach of that duty,
and (3) proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 517.)

Discussion

In this case, Al Bayaan argues the Complaint
fails to allege what Delgado Serano was hired to do, what Delgado Serano was
doing, who hired Delgado Serano, and where Delgado Serano was when Delgado
Serano allegedly slipped and fell. But such specificity is not required as “negligence
may be pleaded in general terms.” (Lopez v Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.) Here, the Complaint alleges Delgado Serano was
lawfully at a property in La Puente that was owned, operated, maintained, and
managed by Al Bayaan and Mian Construction when Delgado Serano slipped and fell
from a ladder. (Complaint, p. 4-5.) The court finds these allegations are
sufficient to establish where and how Delgado Serano was injured.
 
Next, Al Bayaan argues the Complaint fails to
allege how they breached their duty of care. The Complaint alleges Al Bayaan
provided a ladder to Delgado Serano that “became unstable” and that the ladder
became a dangerous condition through Al Bayaan’s carelessness, recklessness,
and negligence. (Complaint, p. 4-5.) The Complaint also alleges Al Bayaan
failed to prevent the dangerous condition, failed to remedy the dangerous
condition, and failed to give adequate warning of the dangerous condition.
(Complaint, p. 5.) The court finds these allegations are sufficient to
establish Al Bayaan’s alleged breach in the form of providing a ladder that
became unstable to Delgado Serano. While Al Bayaan argues the Complaint fails
to allege how Al Bayaan owned or controlled the ladder at issue, the allegation
that Al Bayaan provided the ladder is sufficient to establish they exercised
control over it.
 
Last, Al Bayaan argues the Complaint fails to
establish how Delgado Serano’s fall was caused by the allegedly dangerous
condition. But the Complaint does so by alleging Delgado Serano “slipped and
fell from a ladder” that had become unstable. (Complaint, p. 4-5.)
 
Accordingly, Al Bayaan’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE

Al Bayaan moves to strike Doe allegations and
dangerous condition allegations from Delgado Serano’s Complaint. For the
following reasons, the court DENIES
Al Bayaan’s motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court
may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation includes “(1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense,”
“(2)¿An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3)¿A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
 
Doe
Allegations
 
The
Complaint alleges Does 1-10 “were the agents or employees or other named
defendants and acted within the scope of that agency or employment.” (Complaint,
¶ 6(a).) The Complaint also alleges Does 1-10 “are persons whose capacities are
unknown to plaintiff.” (Complaint, ¶ 6(b).) Al Bayaan argues these allegations
should be stricken because they present a fatal inconsistency. But Al Bayaan
fails to cite to any legal authority that prohibits Delgado Serano from making
these types of Doe allegations.
 
Accordingly,
Al Bayaan’s motion to strike on this ground is DENIED.
 
Dangerous
Condition Allegations
 
The Complaint
alleges “[w]hile on the premises, Plaintiff slipped and fell from a ladder that
was provided to him by Defendants, which became unstable and became a dangerous
condition.” (Complaint, p. 4.) Al Bayaan argues that whether or not the ladder
became a dangerous condition is irrelevant to Delgado Serano’s causes of
action. But as discussed above with regards to the demurrer, the alleged
dangerous condition of the ladder is relevant to determine if Al Bayaan
breached a duty of care which caused Delgado Serano’s injuries.
 
Accordingly, Al
Bayaan’s motion to strike on this ground is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Al Bayaan’s demurrer to Delgado Serano’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Furthermore, Al
Bayaan’s
motion to strike portions of Delgado Serano’s Complaint is DENIED.
 
Defendant Al Bayaan Islamic Center, Inc. to file its Answer
in ten (10) days.