 Case Number:  23SMCV05095    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING  Plaintiff John Oursland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Joe Sherman’s Compliance with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Joe Sherman shall provide code-compliant responses, without objections, to Plaintiff John Oursland’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff John Oursland’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $510.00, payable by Defendant Joe Sherman to Plaintiff John Oursland and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff John Oursland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Catherine Bampoky’s Compliance with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Catherine Bampoky shall provide code-compliant responses, without objections, to Plaintiff John Oursland’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff John Oursland’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $510.00, payable by Defendant Catherine Bampoky to Plaintiff John Oursland and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff John Oursland to give notice. REASONINGWhere there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. (Ibid.) There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required. (Contra Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1) [good cause requirement for motion to compel further responses].)Plaintiff John Oursland (“Plaintiff”) served Defendants Joe Sherman and Catherine Bampoky (“Defendants”) with Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, on December 11, 2023. (Mots., Gerber Decls. ¶ 2.) Responses were due on or before December 21, 2023. (Mots., Gerber Decls. ¶ 3.) To date, Defendants have no provided responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. (Mots., Gerber Decls. ¶ 5.)Accordingly, Plaintiff John Oursland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Joe Sherman’s Compliance with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED, and Plaintiff John Oursland’s Motion to Compel Defendant Catherine Bampoky’s Compliance with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendants Joe Sherman and Catherine Bampoky shall provide code-compliant responses, without objections, to Plaintiff John Oursland’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.If a motion to compel responses to requests for production is filed, the Court may impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)Defendants request $2,560.00 in monetary sanctions for each of the two motions. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper, but the Court reduces the amount to $510.00 for each motion, representing one hour spent preparing each motion and one half-hour spent appearing at the hearing on each motion, totaling one-and-a-half hours, at the reduced rate of $300 per hour, as this matter was not particularly complex, and a filing fee of $60 for each motion. Such sanctions are payable by Defendants Joe Sherman and Catherine Bampoky to Plaintiff John Oursland and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.