  Case Number:  19STCV46503    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



curtis r. olson, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
vidala aaronoff, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV46503




Hearing Date:


January 15, 2025




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
PLAINTIFF CURTIS
  OLSON’S MOTION FOR ORDER FINDING ATTORNEY STEVEN AARONOFF IN CONTEMPT FOR
  INAPPROPRIATE OUTBURSTS AND DISTURBANCES DURING JUDGMENT DEBTOR EXAMINATION;
  REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



Background
Plaintiff Curtis R. Olson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December
23, 2019 against a number of defendants, including Vidala Aaronoff. Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on November 17, 2020, alleging ten
causes of action.
On August 29, 2023, Jane Doe filed a Cross-Complaint in this action
against, inter alia, Plaintiff. The Cross-Complaint alleges nine causes
of action. 
On September 16, 2024, a hearing on an application for order for
appearance and examination was held in this matter. 
Plaintiff now moves for an order “finding attorney Steven Aaronoff in
contempt for professional misconduct; disorderly conduct of proceedings;
breaching the peace and boisterous conduct disrupting the due course of a
judicial proceeding, and abuse of process of proceedings of the court as it
relates to his conduct at the September 16, 2024 judgment debtor examination in
this case.” Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against attorney Steven Aaronoff. Vidala
Aaronoff and nonparty Steven J. Aaronoff, Esq. (jointly, the “Opposing
Parties”) oppose. 
Discussion
As
set forth above, Plaintiff seeks an order “finding attorney
Steven Aaronoff in contempt for professional misconduct; disorderly conduct of
proceedings; breaching the peace and boisterous conduct disrupting the due
course of a judicial proceeding, and abuse of process of proceedings of the
court as it relates to his conduct at the September 16, 2024 judgment debtor
examination in this case.” (Mot. at p. 2:5-9.)
Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1211, subdivision (a), which provides that “[w]hen
a contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or of
the judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily; for which an order must be
made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence,
adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt,
and that he or she be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at chambers, an affidavit
shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts constituting the
contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or other
judicial officers.”  
Plaintiff also cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1218, subdivision (a), which provides as follows: 
 
“Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it be adjudged that the person is guilty of the contempt, a
fine may be imposed on the person not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000),
payable to the court, or the person may be imprisoned not exceeding five days,
or both. In addition, a person who is subject to a court order as a party to
the action, or any agent of this person, who is adjudged guilty of contempt for
violating that court order may be ordered to pay to the party initiating the
contempt proceeding the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred by this
party in connection with the contempt proceeding.” ((Id., § 1218, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff asserts that the Court should “find
Steven Aaronoff in contempt for violation of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1209(a)(2) and 1209(a)(4) for his conduct on
September 16, 2024.” (Mot. at p. 3:12-13.) Code of Civil Procedure section 1209, subdivisions (a)(2) and (a)(4) provide that “[t]he following acts or omissions in respect to a court of justice, or
proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the court:…(2) A breach of the
peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceeding…(4) Abuse
of the process or proceedings of the court, or falsely pretending to act under
authority of an order or process of the court.” Plaintiff seeks sanctions for “sixteen…specific,
separate instances of misconduct by attorney Steven Aaronoff…” (Mot. at p.
10:5-6.)
As an initial matter, the Opposing Parties assert that the motion is
procedurally defective.  The Opposing
Parties cite to Cedars-Sinai
Imaging Medical Group v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
1281, 1286-1287, where the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“A contempt proceeding is commenced by the
filing of an affidavit and a request for an order to show cause. (§ 1211, subds. (a), (b)…After
notice to the opposing party’s lawyer, the court (if satisfied with the sufficiency of
the affidavit) must sign an order to show cause re contempt in which the date
and time for a hearing are set forth. 
(§ 1212; Arthur v. Superior Court (1965) 62 Cal. 2d 404, 408 [42 Cal. Rptr. 441, 398 P.2d 777]
[“an order to show cause must
be issued”]; Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 1999) P 9:715, p. 9(II)-47.)…The order to show cause acts as a summons to
appear in court on a certain day and, as its name
suggests, to show cause why a certain thing should not be done. (Morelli v. Superior Court (1968) 262 Cal. App. 2d 262, 269 [68 Cal. Rptr. 572].) Unless the citee has concealed
himself from the court, he must be personally served
with the affidavit and the order to show cause; otherwise, the court lacks
jurisdiction to proceed. (§ 1015 [in civil actions in which a
party is represented by an attorney, “the service of papers, when required,
must be upon the attorney instead of the party, except service of subpoenas, of
writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers to bring him into
contempt”]; see also § 1016; Arthur v. Superior Court, supra, 62 Cal. 2d at p. 408; and see Weil &
Brown, supra, P 9:716,
p. 9(11)-47.).” (Emphasis in original.) 
In his declaration in support of the opposition, Seven Aaronoff states
that he has “never been personally served with a copy of Mr. Eballar’s moving
papers.” (Aaronoff Decl., ¶ 13.) This point does not appear to be addressed by
Plaintiff in the reply. Indeed, the proof of service attached to the motion
indicates that the motion was served by mail and email on October 23, 2024. In
addition, the Opposing Parties assert that here, Plaintiff has “bypassed the[]
mandatory procedures by…[f]iling a regular motion rather than seeking an OSC…”
(Opp’n at p. 4:12-14.) Indeed, in the notice of motion, Plaintiff states that “[i]n
the alternative, Plaintiff moves this Court for an order setting an OSC as
to why attorney Steven Aaronoff should not be found in Contempt for the conduct
described herein.” (Mot. at p. 2:14-15, emphasis added.) 
In light of the foregoing procedural issues, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion. 
The Court also notes that in the reply, Plaintiff asserts that
“[b]eyond its contempt powers, this Court has broad authority to control its
proceedings on its own, with or without a motion. It can do ‘whatever is
necessary and appropriate’ to ensure orderly administration of justice. This
authority includes ordering Attorney Aaronoff to comply with this Court’s
Guidelines for Civility as if they were Rules of this Court, and to sanction or
hold him in contempt for any violations thereof. Plaintiff respectfully
requests that, in addition to an OSC re Contempt, this Court enter such order.”
(Reply at p. 2:21-26.) But in the notice of motion, Plaintiff did not move for
an order that Mr. Aaronoff “comply with this Court’s Guidelines for Civility as
if they were Rules of this Court.” (Reply at p. 2:24.)  The Court notes that “¿[p]oints raised
for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because
such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter
the argument.¿” (American Drug
Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.) 
Although
the specific request belatedly made by Plaintiff is denied for lack of notice,
the Court, based upon its inherent power to ensure the orderly administration
of justice, does issue the following order based upon its review of the
transcripts provided by the parties:
Mr.
Aaronoff may not interpose speaking objections of any sort at any
further examination or deposition in this action. This includes adding words
after a question, such as “if you recall” or “to the extent you remember.” Mr.
Aaronoff may not make any suggestions or comments whatsoever on the questions
asked by opposing counsel, such as “do you mean ___”.  Mr. Aaronoff may make recognized evidentiary
objections only, such as “vague” “ambiguous” and other objections that go to
the form of the question. (Note:  Other
objections such as hearsay are automatically preserved and should not be made
at the examination or deposition.) Mr. Aaronoff may not make any spontaneous
or gratuitous comments, remarks, phrases or the like such as “Doo Doo
Doo” (see page 85 of the transcript attached to the Eballar Declaration,
Ex. A). Finally, the examination or depositions in this case will start at the noticed
time. The parties and their counsel must take care of the need for food and
water in advance of the start time for the deposition. 
Lastly,
the Court notes that in the opposition, the Opposing Parties request that the
Court “sua sponte dismiss this action.” (Opp’n at p.
3:13-14.) The Opposing Parties do not cite any legal authority to support such
request and the Court declines to dismiss the action.  
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for an order finding attorney Steven
Aaronoff in contempt is denied. Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees is
denied. Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.¿ 
DATED:  January 15, 2025                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court