 Case Number:  22STCV07030    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  50   
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
            



JOSEPH VU,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
KECK
  MEDICAL CENTER OF USC., et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV07030




Hearing Date:


January 15, 2025




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS KECK
  MEDICAL CENTER OF USC AND USC HEALTH SYSTEM’S MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE RELATED
  ACTIONS



 
Background
On
February 25, 2022, Plaintiff Joseph Vu (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Keck Medical Center of USC and USC Health System (jointly,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) elder abuse and
(2) negligence.  
Defendants
indicate that on November 4, 2024, Plaintiffs Anh Vu, Anthony Vu, and Jonathan
Vu filed an action against Defendants Keck Medical Center of USC and USC Health
System in Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 24STCV28841, alleging one cause
of action for wrongful death (herein, “Case No. 24STCV28841”). (Lane
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C.) Timothy Vu is named as a “Nominal Defendant” in Case No.
24STCV28841. 
Defendants
now move for an order to consolidate the instant action and Case No.
24STCV28841. Plaintiff opposes. 

 
 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1048, subdivision (a), “[w]hen actions involving a
common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a
joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it
may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” 
“Consolidation is
not a matter of right; it rests solely within the sound discretion of the trial
judge. . .” ((Fisher v. Nash Bldg. Co. (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 397, 402.) There
are two types of consolidation under section 1048:
“a consolidation for purposes of trial only, where the two actions remain
otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation or consolidation for all
purposes, where the two actions are merged into a single proceeding under one
case number and result in only one verdict or set of findings and one
judgment.” ((Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) “The purpose is to enhance trial court efficiency (i.e., to
avoid unnecessary duplication of evidence and procedures); and to avoid the
substantial danger of inconsistent adjudications (i.e., different results
because tried before different juries, or a judge and jury, etc.).” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before
Trial (The Rutter
Group 2022) ¶ 12:340.) 
B.    Allegations of the Complaint in the Instant Action 
            In
the Complaint in the instant action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that
“[o]n or about February 18, 2021, JOSEPH VU was admitted to [Keck
Medical Center of USC] because JOSEPH VU passed out while he was playing
tennis. It was determined at [Keck Medical Center of USC] that JOSEPH VU
required a double bypass surgery.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) “During JOSEPH VU’s
residency, he fell into a coma and was put on a ventilator.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) In
addition, “[d]uring JOSEPH VU’s admission in [Keck Medical Center of USC] he
developed an avoidable pressure ulcer on his sacral/coccyx area. During JOSEPH
VU’s admission, the pressure sore worsened and required wound care.” (Compl., ¶
24.)  
            Plaintiff alleges that “[o]ver the
course of the stay of JOSEPH VU in [Keck Medical Center of USC] consisting of
less than 5 weeks, the DEFENDANTS just ignored the known needs of JOSEPH VU. [Keck
Medical Center of USC] consistently failed to properly, and in accordance of
the standard of practice, evaluate JOSEPH VU’S clinical condition and pressure
ulcer risk factors; define and implement interventions consistent with JOSEPH
VU’S needs, individual goals, and recognized standards of practice; monitor and
evaluate the impact of the interventions; or revise the interventions as
appropriate as it relates to JOSEPH VU.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “the injuries suffered by JOSEPH VU while a patient of [Keck
Medical Center of USC] were the result of DEFENDANTS’ plan to cut costs at the
expense of their patients such as JOSEPH VU. Integral to this plan was the
practice and pattern of staffing [Keck Medical Center of USC] with an
insufficient number of service personnel, many of whom were not properly
trained or qualified to care for the elders and/or dependent adults, whose
lives were entrusted to them. The ‘under staffing’ and ‘lack of training’ plan
was designed as a mechanism as to reduce labor costs and predictably and
forseeably [sic] resulted in the abuse and neglect of many patients of [Keck
Medical Center of USC], and most specifically, JOSEPH VU.” (Compl., ¶ 40.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he DEFENDANTS breached their statutory and regulatory duties
of care to JOSEPH VU as set forth in the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act…” (Compl., ¶ 56.) 
            Plaintiff also alleges that “[o]n
approximately March 22, 2021, JOSEPH VU was discharged to Kindred Baldwin
Park.” (Compl., ¶ 25.) 
C.   
Allegations
of the Complaint in Case No. 24STCV28841
            The Complaint in Case No.
24STCV28841 alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs ANH VU;
ANTHONY VU; and JONATHAN VU (hereinafter sometimes referred to as
‘PLAINTIFFS’)…bring their wrongful death claims individually as heirs of Joseph
Vu (hereinafter referred to as ‘DECEDENT’).” (Lane Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C, ¶
1.) The Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n or about February 18, 2021, DECEDENT was
admitted to [Keck Medical Center of USC] because DECEDENT passed out while he
was playing tennis. It was determined at [Keck Medical Center of USC] that
DECEDENT required a double bypass surgery.” (Ibid.,
¶ 22.) “During DECEDENT’s residency, he fell into a coma and was put on a
ventilator.” (Ibid., ¶ 23.) In addition,
“[d]uring DECEDENT’s admission in [Keck Medical Center of USC] he developed an
avoidable pressure ulcer on his sacral/coccyx area. During DECEDENT’s
admission, the pressure sore worsened and required wound care.” (Ibid., ¶ 24.) “On approximately March 22, 2021,
DECEDENT was discharged to Kindred Baldwin Park.” (Ibid.,
¶ 25.) 
            Plaintiffs allege that “[o]ver the
course of the stay of DECEDENT in [Keck Medical Center of USC] consisting of
less than 5 weeks, the DEFENDANTS just ignored the known needs of DECEDENT. [Keck
Medical Center of USC] consistently failed to properly, and in accordance of
the standard of practice, evaluate DECEDENT’S clinical condition and pressure
ulcer risk factors; define and implement interventions consistent with DECEDENT’S
needs, individual goals, and recognized standards of practice; monitor and
evaluate the impact of the interventions; or revise the interventions as
appropriate as it relates to DECEDENT.” (Lane Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C, ¶
26.) Plaintiffs allege that “the injuries suffered by DECEDENT while a patient
of [Keck Medical Center of USC] were the result of DEFENDANTS’ plan to cut
costs at the expense of their patients such as DECEDENT. Integral to this plan
was the practice and pattern of staffing [Keck Medical Center of USC] with an
insufficient number of service personnel, many of whom were not properly
trained or qualified to care for the elders and/or dependent adults, whose
lives were entrusted to them. The ‘under staffing’ and ‘lack of training’ plan
was designed as a mechanism as to reduce labor costs and predictably and foreseeably
[sic] resulted in the abuse and neglect of many patients of [Keck Medical
Center of USC], and most specifically, DECEDENT.” (Ibid.,
¶ 40.)  
            Plaintiffs allege that “DEFENDANTS
failed to meet their statutory duties to DECEDENT pursuant to the Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act,” and that “[a]s a proximate result of
the ‘neglect’ (as that term is defined in Welfare and
Institutions Code § 15610.57) as more particularly alleged above
perpetrated by all of the DEFENDANTS, and each of them, DECEDENT died...” (Lane
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C, ¶¶ 57-58.)
D.    Consolidation 
In the instant motion, Defendants assert that “[e]ach of the cases
defendants seek to consolidate arise from an identical set of factual
allegations of wrongdoing.” (Mot. at p. 3:3-4.) Defendants assert that “the two
lawsuits arise from the same exact admission to defendants’ facility by Mr. Vu
from February 18, 2021 to March 22, 2021, resulting in alleged injuries to him,
and allegedly leading to his passing on November 20, 2023; which in turn has
resulted in allegedly wrongfully caused damage to plaintiffs.” (Mot. at p.
5:8-11.) 
In addition, Defendants assert that “if the cases are not
consolidated, valuable court time will be wasted in duplicative testimony
regarding the events that transpired while the decedent was admitted at Keck
Medical Center of USC, regarding the cause of death, and related to any causal
link between the injury producing event and the decedent’s passing. Such issues
will require testimony from the same lay and expert witnesses.” (Mot. at p.
5:14-18.) Defendants argue that “[e]conomy and convenience would be best served
by a single trial with respect to these related actions. Separate trials would
substantially prejudice these defendants as they would be forced to defend
themselves on two fronts involving virtually the same witnesses and facts.”
(Mot. at p. 6:2-4.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that “the cases which Defendant
seeks to consolidate involve different parties and different claims.” (Opp’n at
p. 3:2-3.) Plaintiff states that “[t]he sole Plaintiff in the instant action is
Joseph Vu. This matter alleges two causes of action for (1) violations of the
Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (EADACPA) and (2)
Negligence. The separate wrongful death action does not include Joseph Vu as
Plaintiff. Rather, the Plaintiffs in the Wrongful Death matter are Anh Vu,
Anthony Vu, and Jonathan Vu. Further, there is a Nominal Defendant named
Timothy Vu.” (Opp’n at p. 1:3-7.) Plaintiff also asserts that “[t]he damages
alleged by Anh Vu, Anthony Vu, and Jonathan Vu in the wrongful death case are
distinct from the damages alleged in the survival action, as a matter of law,”
and that “[t]here are also distinct causation issues in the two cases.” (Opp’n
at p. 3:15-16; 4:18.) In addition, Plaintiff argues that “the scope of
discovery is quite different.” (Opp’n at p. 4:25.) 
However, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that the instant action
and Case No. 24STCV28841 involve common questions of fact. As set forth above,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
subdivision (a), “[w]hen actions involving a
common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a
joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it
may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”
The Court agrees with Defendants that the instant action and Case No.
24STCV28841 involve
common questions of fact. The Court finds it appropriate to
consolidate the two actions.
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to consolidate.  
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  January 15, 2025                            
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 