 Case Number:  23STCV03450    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 7-1-24
Case # 23STCV03450 
Trial Date: 11-25-24
 
CONTINUE TRIAL
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, APB Properties, LLC 
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed/ Defendant Jeff Kern
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Continue Trial
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On March 11, 2022, Plaintiff APB Properties (“APB”) and
Defendant Jeff Kern (“Kern”) entered into a Commercial Purchase Agreement (“PSA”)
for real property located in Huntington Park, California (“Property”). As the
Seller in the agreement, APB subsequently presented a Seller’s Counter Off that
changed the escrow company and title company, which Defendant and Plaintiff
both signed off on. Defendant Kern deposited $60,000 into escrow some time
thereafter. However, in June of 2022, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed
and refused to close escrow, despite Plaintiff APB issuing its Demand to do so.
 
Accordingly, on February 16, 2023, Plaintiff APB filed a Complaint
for (1) breach of written contract; and (2) declaratory relief. 
 
On April 13, 2024, Defendant Kern filed a Cross-Complaint,
alleging two causes of action against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant, APB
Properties for (1) breach of written contract; and (2) declaratory relief.
 
On April 14, 2023, Defendant Kern filed his Answer to
Plaintiff’s February 16, 2023, Complaint.
 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff APB filed the instant Motion to
Continue to Trial, along with the Declaration of Plaintiff’s attorney, Harris
Cohen (“Cohen Decl.”), and a Proposed Order.
 
No Opposition, nor Reply has been filed. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff APB moves to
continue the November 25, 2024, trial date to March of 2025, along with an
extension of all discovery and motion cutoffs. Plaintiff APB moves for a
continuance due to Defendant Kern’s noncompliance with the discovery process.
(Cohen Decl., ¶ 12(g).) Thus, the motion is necessary because Defendant Kern’s
intentional decision to not participate in discovery has placed Plaintiff APB
at a disadvantage for trial and deprived APB of the right to timely prepare for
trial. (Id.) Therefore, the Court should continue the trial date to
March of 2025 and deem that to be the initial trial date, keeping discovery
open until thirty (30) days prior to the new trial date. (Id.)
 
 
Pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1332(a): 
 
“Continuances before or
during trial in civil cases are disfavored. 
The date set for trial shall be firm. . . . Except for good cause, the
motion [for continuance] shall be made on written notice to all other parties.  The notice shall be given and motion made
promptly on the necessity for the continuance being ascertained.  A continuance before or during trial shall
not be granted except on an affirmative showing of good cause under the
standards recommended in section 9 of the Standards of Judicial Administration.
. . .”
 
c) Grounds for
continuance
Although continuances
of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on
its own merits. The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances that may
indicate good cause include:
…
(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
…
 
Other factors set forth in CRC Rule 3.1332(d) that are
relevant in granting a continuance include:
 
(1) The proximity of
the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; 
(3) The length of the
continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; 
(9) Whether all parties
have stipulated to a continuance; 
(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
APB alleges that although APB acted timely and diligently
in serving discovery in January of 2024, Kern did not respond to any discovery.
(Cohen Decl., ¶ 12(a).) On June 3, 2024, the Court granted APB’s motion to
compel. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Despite notice of the ruling being served on
Kern’s counsel, Plaintiff asserts Kern’s counsel ignored the motion. (Id.
at Ex. 3.) 
 
On June 17, 2024, APB
filed a motion for summary adjudication of
all causes of action
in the complaint and cross-complaint, except as to APB’s cause
of action for declaratory relief which would be moot if the motion were
granted. (Cohen Decl., ¶ 9.) The hearing is set for October 8, 2024, just six
weeks before trial. (Id. at Ex. 1.) Despite the motions to compel
responses to the (a) requests for documents, (b) special interrogatories, and
(c) form interrogatories—Kern has not provided any response. (Cohen Decl., ¶
10, Ex. 1.) The remaining motions to compel responses to both the special and
form interrogatories are set for hearing on August 5, 2024. (Id.) In
response, Kern served a motion to be relieved of the deemed admissions from
June 19, 2024 and this motion is set for hearing on October 21, 2024, which is
only a month before trial. (Cohen Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 1.) 
APB
contends that the timing of the foregoing motions, along with Kern’s refusal to
participate in the discovery process has caused prejudice and unfairness to APB.
(Cohen Decl., ¶ 12.) Although various motions concerning discovery have been
filed, the Court has only been able to advance two of the motions. (Id.)
Given APB has not received any discovery responses as of the date of June 24,
2024, and trial is set for November 25, 2024, the discovery cutoff will be
approaching on October 24, 2024. (Id.) APB’s motion for summary
adjudication is primarily based on the deemed admissions which is set to be
heard on October 8, 2024. However, Kern’s motion to set aside the order deeming
RFA’s admitted is set for October 21, 2024. As such, Plaintiff contends that October
21, 2024, is the first date that the parties will know if there will be a trial
in this action. (Id.) As such, Plaintiff argues this will be prejudicial
to APB, as it is too close to the discovery cutoff on October 24, 2024. (Id.)
The
Court finds that the timing of the foregoing motions, in conjunction with
Kern’s alleged noncompliance with the discovery process, is evidenced by APB’s
exhibits and the Court’s prior orders. Moreover, Defendant Kern has not filed
an opposition to the instant motion so the Court does not find Kern will be
prejudiced considering Kern is the claimed noncompliant party necessitating the
instant motion. Accordingly, the Court finds Kern’s purported noncompliance
with discovery is a valid basis for a continuance of the trial. 
Pursuant to California Code of
Civil Proc., § 2024.050, the Court continues the discovery cut-off date. The
court also extends the motion cut-offs.
 
In exercising its
discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take into
consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not
limited to, the following:
 
(1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2) The diligence or
lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a
discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that
the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
 
(3) Any likelihood that
permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case
from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial
calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4) The length of time
that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set,
for the trial of the action.
 
The motion is granted. Trial will be continued to a date to
be determined at the hearing depending on the court calendar and availability
of counsel.  FSC and pre-trial deadlines
are also continued
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 