  Case Number:  23TRCV03527    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. B




 
JULIAN
  HUERTA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03527




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BRETT
  LASHURE, et al. 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                       May 21, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Brett Lashure and Alexa Lashure
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Julian Huerta 
Motion
to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
BACKGROUND
            On October 23, 2024, plaintiff
Julian Huerta filed a complaint against Brett Lashure, Alexa Lashure, and Does
1- 50 for (1) negligence: personal injury (premises), (2) strict liability
(Civil Code Section 3342).
            
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (CCP, §§ 435- 437.) A motion to
strike can be made to strike irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading or to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of the court. (CCP
§ 436.)
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants seek
to strike portions of plaintiff’s complaint. Specifically, defendants seek to
entirely strike page 5, paragraph 18 of plaintiff’s complaint and paragraph 5
of plaintiff’s prayer for relief on page 6 of the complaint. 
            Defendants
argue that plaintiff has failed to meet the rigid pleading requirements to seek
punitive damages in this negligence-based lawsuit arising from a dog-bite
because there are no facts that would warrant punitive damages. (Mot. at p.4.)
Moreover, there is no causal connection between the conduct that is presumed to
be despicable and the injury-causing accident because there are no facts
showing that the dog was aggressive, and plaintiff was aware of the dog’s
tendencies already. (Id. at p.8.) Defendants also argue that plaintiff
has not properly pled punitive damages against defendant for the actions of
their agent because plaintiff only provides conclusory statements that there
was a conscious disregard for the safety of plaintiff. (Id. at p.9.)
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that defendants cannot refute the fact that defendants
were aware their dog had a history of behaving aggressively or reacting
dangerously with guests because it is not in the four corners of the complaint.
(Opp. p. 3-4.) Moreover, plaintiff argues that the complaint is not conclusory
because he alleged that there was prior knowledge of the danger the SUBJECT DOG
posed to guests, prior knowledge that the SUBJECT DOG had dangerous
propensities around food, and failure to adequately control/secure the dog and
failure to adequately warn of the danger presented by Plaintiff, a guest,
electing to consume food near the SUBJECT DOG. (Id. at p. 4.) In the
alternative, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend the complaint. (Id.) 
            In
reply, defendants reiterate their previous arguments and provide examples
showing the conclusory nature of the allegations. (Reply at p. 2-3.) Defendants
further argue that the opposition was untimely filed and therefore, the court
should refuse to consider the opposition. (Id. at p.5.) 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s complaint fails to sufficiently plead facts warranting punitive
damages. The complaint states “Defendants took no reasonable measures to abate
or eliminate the danger to MR. HUERTA, exposing MR. HUERTA to serious injury
and harm. Moreover, Defendants failed to adequately warn MR. HUERTA of the
SUBJECT DOG’S dangerous propensities and the situations which would trigger the
SUBJECT DOG’S aggression. Defendants acted with a conscious disregard for MR.
HUERTA’S safety within the meaning of Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24
C.3d 890, 157 Cal.Rptr.693, 598 P.2d 854. Such a conscious disregard for the
safety of MR. HUERTA herein supports MR. HUERTA’S request for and entitlement
to punitive damages.” (Complaint ¶ 18.) 
            The
complaint further states “SUBJECT DOG would attack and bite people, including
MR. HUERTA, if not adequately controlled, as the SUBJECT DOG had a history of
behaving aggressively and/or reacting dangerously with guests of the PREMISES;
b. SUBJECT DOG was aggressive and dangerous around food, including human food
and beverage; c. SUBJECT DOG would inflict serious injury if given the
opportunity to attack and bite people, including MR. HUERTA.” (Complaint ¶ 5.)
Additionally, the complaint states “Plaintiff ‘was preparing to have a meal and
beverage at the PREMISES, the SUBJECT DOG, owned by Defendants, suddenly and
without warning, lunged at and bit MR. HUERTA’s face, ferociously tearing
through MR. HUERTA’s nasal bridge, undereye area, cheek, and lips. Defendants
failed to adequately warn of the SUBJECT DOG’S dangerous propensities and
Defendants failed to control, manage, or secure the SUBJECT DOG to prevent it
from biting and harming guests like MR. HUERTA.” (Complaint ¶ 2.) 
            
            Nevertheless,
the court finds these allegations to be conclusory and therefore not sufficient
to warrant punitive damages.
ORDER
            The motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.