 Case Number:  23SMCV05558    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 25, 2024, continued to May 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05558




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the First
  Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Select Portfolio Servicing




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Allen Dwight Moyer



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Allen Dwight Moyer’s (“Plaintiff”) First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleges four causes of action against Defendant Select Portfolio
Servicing (“Defendant”): (1) Violation of Civil Code § 2923.7; (2) Violation of
Civil Code § 2924.9; (3) Violation of 12 C.F.R. 1024.38; and (4) Unfair
Business Practices.  
 
Defendant demurs to all four causes of action for failure to state a
cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(e).  Defendant also moves to strike
allegations regarding punitive damages, emotional distress, attorneys’ fees, as
well as all allegations for “damages,” on the basis that damages are not
available for violations of the Homeowners Bill of Rights pre-trustee’s sale or
under California’s Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code
sections 17200 et seq.  
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendant replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following documents:
 
1.    
Deed of Trust recorded December 21, 2021 in Official
Records Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number 20211893005.
 
2.    
Notice of Default recorded July 31, 2023 in Official
Records Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number 20230502886.
 
3.    
Notice of Trustee’s Sale recorded November 1, 2023 in
Official Records Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number
20230748246.
 
4.    
Complaint filed December 1, 2023 regarding Allen
Dwight Moyer v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc., Superior Court of the
State of California, Santa Clara County, Case No. 23CV426813.
 
With respect to the first
three documents, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and
recordation of real property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not
reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
 
Here, each of the recorded
documents bears the stamp of the recorder and of a notary public.  Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s
request and takes judicial notice of those documents and the legal effect
thereof, but not the truth of the matters asserted therein.
 
With respect to the complaint,
judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the complaint is part of the record
for the Superior Court of the State of California, Santa Clara County, the
Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the complaint filed in Santa
Clara, but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First and
Second Causes of Action – Violation of Civil Code sections 2923.7 and 2924.9
 
Civil Code section 2923.7
provides, in relevant portion:
 
(a) When
a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, the mortgage servicer
shall promptly establish a single point of contact and provide to the borrower
one or more direct means of communication with the single point of contact.
 
(b) The
single point of contact shall be responsible for doing all of the following:
 
(1)
Communicating the process by which a borrower may apply for an available
foreclosure prevention alternative and the deadline for any required
submissions to be considered for these options.
 
(2)
Coordinating receipt of all documents associated with available foreclosure
prevention alternatives and notifying the borrower of any missing documents
necessary to complete the application.
 
(3)
Having access to current information and personnel sufficient to timely,
accurately, and adequately inform the borrower of the current status of the
foreclosure prevention alternative.
 
(4)
Ensuring that a borrower is considered for all foreclosure prevention
alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage servicer, if any.
 
(5)
Having access to individuals with the ability and authority to stop foreclosure
proceedings when necessary.
 
(c) The
single point of contact shall remain assigned to the borrower’s account until
the mortgage servicer determines that all loss mitigation options offered by,
or through, the mortgage servicer have been exhausted or the borrower’s account
becomes current.
 
(d) The
mortgage servicer shall ensure that a single point of contact refers and
transfers a borrower to an appropriate supervisor upon request of the borrower,
if the single point of contact has a supervisor.
 
(e) For
purposes of this section, “single point of contact” means an individual or team
of personnel each of whom has the ability and authority to perform the
responsibilities described in subdivisions (b) to (d), inclusive. The mortgage
servicer shall ensure that each member of the team is knowledgeable about the
borrower’s situation and current status in the alternatives to foreclosure
process.
 
Section 2924.9 provides, in relevant portion:
 
(a)
Unless a borrower has previously exhausted the first lien loan modification
process offered by, or through, his or her mortgage servicer described in
Section 2923.6, within five business days after recording a notice of default
pursuant to Section 2924, a mortgage servicer that offers one or more
foreclosure prevention alternatives shall send a written communication to the
borrower that includes all of the following information:
 
(1) That
the borrower may be evaluated for a foreclosure prevention alternative or, if
applicable, foreclosure prevention alternatives.
 
(2)
Whether an application is required to be submitted by the borrower in order to
be considered for a foreclosure prevention alternative.
 
(3) The
means and process by which a borrower may obtain an application for a
foreclosure prevention alternative.
 
[…]
 
(c) This
section shall apply only to mortgages or deeds of trust described in Section
2924.15.
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action fail because (1) Plaintiff does
not satisfy the criteria outlined in Section 2924.15; (2) Plaintiff did not
plead with requisite particularity; and (3) Plaintiff does not allege facts
that any claimed violation was material.
 
Section 2924.15 Criteria
 
Civil Code section 2924.15
provides, in relevant portion:
 
(a)
Unless otherwise provided, paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 2924 and
Sections 2923.5, 2923.55, 2923.6, 2923.7, 2924.9, 2924.10, 2924.11, and 2924.18
shall apply only to a first lien mortgage or deed of trust that meets either of
the following conditions:
 
(1)(A)
The first lien mortgage or deed of trust is secured by owner-occupied
residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units.
 
(B) For
purposes of this paragraph, “owner-occupied” means that the property is the
principal residence of the borrower and is security for a loan made for
personal, family, or household purposes.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 2924.15, subd. (a)(1)(A)-(B).)  The
FAC alleges:
 
12. Plaintiff ALLEN DWIGHT MOYER (“Plaintiff”) at
all relevant times, has owned the Property located at 4535 Alta Tupelo Drive,
Calabasas, CA 91302 (the “Subject Property”). The Subject Property is a
single-family-home with less than four dwelling units and has served as
Plaintiff’s residence for the times mentioned herein. 
 
13. Plaintiff has owned the Property since
December 2021, and he lives therein with his longtime significant other. To
purchase the Property, Plaintiff obtained a first position mortgage against the
property and concurrently executed a Deed of Trust as security for the note.
Defendant SPS is the current servicer of this first lien mortgage and was the
mortgage servicer of the loan at all relevant times herein.
 
[…]
 
31. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was the
owner of the Property and resided therein as his principal place of residence.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 12-13, 31.)
 
            Defendant
contends that, despite these allegations, the property at issue is not in
fact Plaintiff’s principal place of residence, because “Plaintiff very
recently represented in a Complaint filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California, Santa Clara County, No. 23CV426813 that he resides at 12300
Highland Estates, San Martin, California 95046. [RJN, Ex. “4”, pars. 2, 8,
12.]”  (Demurrer at pp. 6-7.)
 
            With
respect to the Santa Clara property, the FAC alleges:
 
14. While Plaintiff has also owned a property in
San Martin, CA since 1999, since purchasing the Subject Property, Plaintiff’s
work obligations have required him to travel between the two properties.
 
(FAC ¶ 14.)
 
            While
the Court has taken judicial notice of the existence of the Santa Clara
complaint, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of any
allegations contained therein.  Moreover,
the allegations in paragraph 14, that work obligations require Plaintiff to
travel between the two properties he owns does not negate the other allegations
in the FAC that that the property at issue is Plaintiff’s principal place of
residence.
 
            At
the hearing, Defendant’s counsel argued that the allegations in the Santa Clara
complaint are judicial admissions that Plaintiff’s primary residence is the
home in San Martin, and therefore cannot be the Calabasas property.  The Court continued the hearing to allow the
parties to provide supplemental briefing on the judicial admission issue.
 
            “A
judicial admission is a party's unequivocal concession of the truth of a
matter, and removes the matter as an issue in the case.”  (Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 34, 48.)  “Judicial
admissions may be made in a pleading.”  (Minish
v. Hanuman Fellowship (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 437, 456 (hereafter Minish).)  “[E]ven unverified complaints can contain
judicial admissions.”  (Womack v.
Lovell (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 772, 786.) 
 
“Facts established by
pleadings as judicial admissions are conclusive concessions of the truth of
those matters, are effectively removed as issues from the litigation, and may
not be contradicted by the party whose pleadings are used against him or her.”  (Minish, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th
at p. 456.)  “While inconsistent theories
of recovery are permitted, a pleader cannot blow hot and cold as to the facts
positively stated.”  (Manti v. Gunari
(1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 442, 449 [cleaned up].)
 
            “However,
“[a] judicial admission is effective (i.e., conclusive) only in the particular
case.”  (Minish, supra, 214
Cal.App.4th at p. 456.)  Moreover, “[t]o
be considered a binding judicial admission, the declaration or utterance must
be one of fact and not a legal conclusion, contention, or argument.”  (Eisen v. Tavangarian (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 626, 637.)
 
            Here,
Defendant seeks to hold Plaintiff to the “judicial admission” made in the
Complaint in the Santa Clara matter that Plaintiff’s San Martin property “was
owner-occupied as defined by Civil Code sect. 2924.15.”[1]  Because Civil Code section 2924.15 defines
“owner-occupied” as “the principal residence of the borrower,” Defendant
argues, this allegation that the property “was owner-occupied” is effectively a
judicial admission that Plaintiff’s principal residence is the San Martin
property.
 
            Whether
the allegation in the Santa Clara pleading that the San Martin property “was
owner-occupied as defined by Civil Code sect. 2924.15” constitutes a factual
admission, or a legal conclusion, contention, or argument, is inconsequential
because the allegation was not asserted in this case.  As such, the Court does not find the
allegation to constitute a judicial admission. 
(Minish, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th at p. 456 [A judicial
admission is conclusive only in the particular case in which it is made].)  
 
            The
only case Defendant cites in support of its position that an allegation in
another case can constitute a judicial admission is Shelby v. Ocwen Loan
Servicing, LLC (E.D. Cal. Aug. 25, 2015) No. 2:14-cv-02844-TLN-DAD, 2015 WL
5023020 (hereafter Shelby).  Besides
the fact that Shelby is a nonbinding, unpublished, federal
district court case, applying the federal pleading standard,[2] Shelby
is factually distinguishable.  There,
the plaintiffs listed the property in question on bankruptcy petitions as a
rental property where they did not reside, and offered the court no explanation
for their contrary assertion that the property is their primary residence.  (Id. at p. *10.)  By contrast, here, it is clear that
Plaintiff’s primary residence was the San Martin property before Plaintiff
purchased the Calabasas property, and thereafter Plaintiff split his time
between the properties.
 
            Thus, while a factual issue remains
as to whether the San Martin or Calabasas property was in fact Plaintiff’s
primary residence at all times relevant to this case, the Court cannot accept
Plaintiff’s allegations in the Santa Clara complaint as binding and conclusive
judicial admissions in this case.  The
Court notes, however, that Plaintiff’s allegations in the Santa Clara case may
be considered in this case as evidentiary admissions and/or prior inconsistent
statements.  (Minish, supra,
214 Cal.App.4th at p. 457 [“Although the statements or allegations of fact in
plaintiff's WCAB pleadings and her superseded superior court pleadings do not
constitute binding and conclusive judicial admissions, the statements in both
types of pleadings may properly be considered in this case as evidentiary
admissions or prior inconsistent statements”].) 
Moreover, to the extent a conclusive and final evidentiary finding is
made in either case as to Plaintiff’s primary residence, Plaintiff may be
collaterally estopped from relitigating that issue in the other case.  (Favila v. Pasquarella (2021) 65
Cal.App.5th 934, 945 [“the prior judgment conclusively resolves an issue
actually litigated and determined in the first action”].)
 
Particularity
 
Where a statutory scheme is
not based on preexisting common law, the “facts in support of each of the
requirements of [the] statute upon which a cause of action is based must be
specifically pled.”  (Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604; G.H.I.I. v.
MTS, Inc. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 256, 273-74.)  
 
            First Cause of Action – Violations of Civil Code
section 2923.7
 
Here, Defendant contends Plaintiff
fails to allege the first cause of action with requisite specificity because (1)
“Plaintiff’s general allegation that he was unable to apply for a foreclosure
prevention alternative does not implicate a violation of any specific
subsection of the statute” and Plaintiff fails to allege whether there were any
foreclosure prevention alternatives; and (2) Plaintiff’s allegations that his
point of contact was not “adequate” is insufficient to state a plausible cause
of action.
 
Plaintiff alleges, in relevant
part:
 
12. Plaintiff ALLEN DWIGHT MOYER (“Plaintiff”) at
all relevant times, has owned the Property located at 4535 Alta Tupelo Drive,
Calabasas, CA 91302 (the “Subject Property”). The Subject Property is a
single-family-home with less than four dwelling units and has served as
Plaintiff’s residence for the times mentioned herein. 
 
13. Plaintiff has owned the Property since
December 2021, and he lives therein with his longtime significant other. To
purchase the Property, Plaintiff obtained a first position mortgage against the
property and concurrently executed a Deed of Trust as security for the note.
Defendant SPS is the current servicer of this first lien mortgage and was the
mortgage servicer of the loan at all relevant times herein.
 
[…]
 
15. The instant allegations arise from
Defendant’s misconduct pertaining to Plaintiff’s request to be reviewed for a
foreclosure prevention alternative.
 
[…]
 
19. In late 2022 or early 2023, Plaintiff
contacted SPS to inform SPS of the financial hardship he was experiencing and
to request a foreclosure prevention alternative, such as a deferment, Covid
forbearance, or loan modification. 
 
20. At that time, Plaintiff’s loan was assigned
to a representative named Yvonne, though most of the time when Plaintiff
called, he was only able to speak with the individuals that answered
Plaintiff’s call. 
 
21. Early on, when Plaintiff spoke with Yvonne,
he told Yvonne that he wanted to apply for a foreclosure prevention alternative
and asked Yvonne about the application process. 
 
22. To Plaintiff’s surprise, Yvonne told
Plaintiff that SPS would not review him for a foreclosure prevention
alternative and that his property was going into foreclosure. Plaintiff
specifically asked about applying for a foreclosure prevention alternative,
such as a forbearance or loan modification, but Yvonne told Plaintiff he could
not do so; his only option was to pay the past due balance. Plaintiff was
floored. 
 
23. While Defendant promotes that it offers a
Covid forbearance option, payment deferral in the form of a
non-interest-bearing balance due at maturity, and loan modifications, Plaintiff
was not permitted to apply for any of these options. Thus, Yvonne and failed to
ensure Plaintiff was considered for any of these options. 
 
24. In July 2023, despite Plaintiff having
requested to be reviewed for a foreclosure prevention alternative, Defendant
recorded a Notice of Default for Plaintiff’s Property. The recorded document
bears document number 20230502886. 
 
25. Plaintiff did not receive correspondence from
SPS which provided the following information: (1) that the borrower may be
evaluated for a foreclosure prevention alternative or, if applicable,
foreclosure prevention alternatives, (2) whether an application is required to
be submitted by the borrower in order to be considered for a foreclosure
prevention alternative, and (3) the means and process by which a borrower may
obtain an application for a foreclosure prevention alternative. 
 
26. In November 2023, Defendant caused a Notice
of Trustee’s Sale to be recorded for the Property, scheduling the sale of
Plaintiff’s home. This lawsuit follows.
 
[…]
 
31. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was the
owner of the Property and resided therein as his principal place of residence. 
 
32. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was a
borrower, as defined by Civil Code § 2920.5, and Plaintiff’s property was
owner-occupied, as defined by Civil Code § 2924.15. 
 
33. At all times relevant, a forbearance plan,
loan modification, deferment, and repayment plan are considered “foreclosure
prevention alternatives” as defined by Civil Code § 2920.5. 
 
34. California Civil Code § 2923.7(b) requires
that a single point of contact [SPOC], among other things, to coordinate the
receipt of all documents associated with available foreclosure prevention
alternatives and notify the borrower of any missing documents necessary to
complete the application; to ensure that a borrower is considered for all
foreclosure prevention alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage
servicer; to have access to current information and personnel sufficient to
timely, accurately, and adequately inform the borrower of the current status of
the foreclosure prevention alternative; and have access to individuals with the
ability and authority to stop foreclosure proceedings when necessary. 
 
35. Defendant violated California Civil Code §
2923.7(b) by failing to provide Plaintiff with a single point of contact who
could carry out all their statutory duties. Defendant’s violations of Civil
Code 2923.7(b) include: 
 
a.      Failing
to communicate the process by which Plaintiff could apply for an available
foreclosure prevention alternative and the deadline for any required
submissions to be considered for these options - Indeed, while Defendant’s
website promotes that it offers a Covid forbearance option, payment deferral in
the form of a noninterest-bearing balance due at maturity, and loan
modifications, Plaintiff was not permitted to apply for any of these options.
Thus, Plaintiff’s assigned point of contact failed to ensure Plaintiff was
considered for any of these options.
 
b.    
Failing to ensure that Plaintiff was considered
for all foreclosure prevention alternatives offered by, or through, the
mortgage servicer - Indeed, while Defendant’s website promotes that it offers a
Covid forbearance option, payment deferral in the form of a
non-interest-bearing balance due at maturity, and loan modifications, Plaintiff
was not permitted to apply for any of these options. Thus, Plaintiff’s assigned
point of contact failed to ensure Plaintiff was considered for any of these
options 
 
36. After refusing to assist Plaintiff as
required by Civil Code § 2923.7, Defendant began actively foreclosing on
Plaintiff’s loan. This amounts to a material violation of Civil Code § 2923.7. 
 
37. As a result of Defendant’s actions, Plaintiff
has suffered damages in the form of Plaintiff being prevented from applying for
a foreclosure prevention alternative, and in an amount to be determined
according to proof at trial. In addition, Plaintiff is facing the imminent loss
of his Property to foreclosure 
 
38. Defendant’s conduct amounts to material
violations of Civil Code § 2923.7 (b).
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 12-13; 15 19-26; 31-38.)  Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded specific facts
that when he contacted his point of contact, Yvonne, in late 2022/early 2023, requesting
a foreclosure prevention alternative, Yvonne informed him that Defendant
refused to consider him in violation of Section 2923.7, subdivision
(b)(4).  
 
                        Second
Cause of Action – Violations of Civil Code section 2924.9
 
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff fails to plead the second cause of action with requisite
particularity, because Plaintiff does not allege he has not previously
exhausted the first lien loan modification process offered by or through his
mortgage servicer.
            
            Although
the phrase “Plaintiff has not previously exhausted the first lien loan
modification process offered by or through his mortgage servicer” does not
appear in the FAC, the FAC does allege:
 
9. Plaintiff
is informed and believes and based thereon alleges that Defendant SELECT PORTFOLIO SERVICING, INC, (hereinafter “SPS”),
is a diversified financial marketing and/or corporation engaged primarily in
residential mortgage banking and/or related business and was the servicer of a
loan secured by Plaintiff’s property during the time periods alleged herein.
Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges that SPS regularly
conducts business in the State of California and County of Los Angeles.
 
[…]
 
13. Plaintiff has owned the Property since
December 2021, and he lives therein with his longtime significant other. To
purchase the Property, Plaintiff obtained a first position mortgage against the
property and concurrently executed a Deed of Trust as security for the note.
Defendant SPS is the current servicer of this first lien mortgage and was the
mortgage servicer of the loan at all relevant times herein.
 
[…]
 
16. For years, Plaintiff has been a high-income
earner. He owns a project management firm and has completed significant
projects for major companies such as Apple, Microsoft, and high-end hotel
chains. 
 
17. However, Plaintiff’s income was not immune
from the torment caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, and, in fact, Plaintiff
experienced a decrease in his personal income simultaneously with the rapid
decline in the entertainment, hospitality, and retail industries that drive
Plaintiff’s income. 
 
18. Though Plaintiff was able to maintain the
status quo for some time, by late 2022, he was no longer able to sustain the
approximately $13,000 mortgage payment on this Property while also keeping up
with his other financial obligations. As a result, Plaintiff fell behind in his
mortgage payments. 
 
19. In late 2022 or early 2023, Plaintiff
contacted SPS to inform SPS of the financial hardship he was experiencing and
to request a foreclosure prevention alternative, such as a deferment, Covid
forbearance, or loan modification.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 9, 13, 16-19.)
 
            As
such, the FAC specifically alleges (1) Plaintiff purchased the subject property
in December 2021; (2) Defendant was Plaintiff’s mortgage servicer at all
relevant times; (3) Plaintiff’s business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic,
causing Plaintiff to fall behind on his mortgage payments in late 2022; (4) in
late 2022 or early 2023, Plaintiff contacted Defendant to request a foreclosure
prevention alternative; and (5) as discussed above, Defendant refused to offer
Plaintiff a foreclosure prevention alternative (see FAC ¶¶ 20-26.)  
 
            Thus,
the FAC alleges sufficient specific facts to create a reasonable inference that
Plaintiff had not previously exhausted the first lien loan modification process
offered by, or through, his mortgage servicer.
 
            Material
 
            Defendant
next contends that Plaintiff failed to allege that any violation was
material.  
 
            Civil
Code section 2924.12, subdivision (a)(1) provides, “If a trustee’s deed upon
sale has not been recorded, a borrower may bring an action for injunctive
relief to enjoin a material violation of […] Section 2923.7[.]”  A violation of the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights
(of which section 2923.7 is a part) is “material” if “it affected the
borrower’s loan obligations, disrupted the loan-modification process, or
otherwise harmed the borrower in connection with the borrower’s efforts to
avoid foreclosure.”  (Billesbach v.
Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 830, 845.)  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
22. To Plaintiff’s surprise, Yvonne told
Plaintiff that SPS would not review him for a foreclosure prevention
alternative and that his property was going into foreclosure. Plaintiff
specifically asked about applying for a foreclosure prevention alternative,
such as a forbearance or loan modification, but Yvonne told Plaintiff he could
not do so; his only option was to pay the past due balance. Plaintiff was
floored. 
 
[…]
 
24. In July 2023, despite Plaintiff having
requested to be reviewed for a foreclosure prevention alternative, Defendant
recorded a Notice of Default for Plaintiff’s Property. The recorded document
bears document number 20230502886. 
 
[…]
 
26. In November 2023, Defendant caused a Notice
of Trustee’s Sale to be recorded for the Property, scheduling the sale of
Plaintiff’s home. This lawsuit follows.
 
[…]
36. After refusing to assist Plaintiff as
required by Civil Code § 2923.7, Defendant began actively foreclosing on
Plaintiff’s loan. This amounts to a material violation of Civil Code § 2923.7.
 
(FAC ¶¶  22, 24, 26, 36.)  Thus, Plaintiff has alleged a material violation,
that disrupted Plaintiff’s loan-modification efforts and harmed Plaintiff’s
efforts in avoiding foreclosure, as evidenced by the recorded notices of
default and trustee’s sale (RJN Exs. 2-3.)
 
            Defendant contends this is
insufficient because “Plaintiff obtained the large loan less than two years
ago, admits his default, and the Property has not sold.”  (Demurrer at p. 9.)  The Court disagrees that Plaintiff’s
allegations are insufficient.  The facts
that Plaintiff obtained the loan approximately two years ago, that the loan was
large, that Plaintiff defaulted on the mortgage, and that the home may not have
sold yet do not have any bearing on whether Defendant’s violation was
material.  There is no information in the
record that Defendant retracted the notice of default or notice of trustee’s sale,
or that Defendant has otherwise abandoned its efforts to foreclose upon
Plaintiff’s property to engage instead with a loan modification process with
Plaintiff.
 
            Therefore the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Third Cause
of Action – Violation of 12 Code of Federal Regulations section 1024.38
 
12 Code of Federal Regulations
section 1024.38 provides in part:
 
(a) Reasonable
policies and procedures. A servicer shall maintain policies and
procedures that are reasonably designed to achieve the objectives set forth in
paragraph (b) of this section.
 
(b) Objectives
—
 
            […]
 
(2) Properly
evaluating loss mitigation applications. The policies and procedures
required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be reasonably designed to
ensure that the servicer can:
 
(i) Provide accurate
information regarding loss mitigation options available to a borrower from the
owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan;
 
(ii) Identify with
specificity all loss mitigation options for which borrowers may be eligible
pursuant to any requirements established by an owner or assignee of the
borrower's mortgage loan;
 
            Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action on the basis that Section 1024.38 does not create
a private right of action.  
 
In support, Defendant cites to
Moore v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (N.D. Cal. Aug. 28, 2023) 2023 WL
5538268, at p. *4 (“this section does not create a private right of action”); Joussett
v. Bank of Am., N.A. (E.D. Pa. Oct. 6, 2016) 2016 WL 5848845, at p. *5 (quoting
78 Fed. Reg. at 10,697-98) (“The Bureau...will be able...to assure compliance
with these requirements but there will not be a private right of action to
enforce these provisions”); In re Wells Fargo Forbearance Litigation
(N.D. Cal. May 2, 2023) 2023 WL 3237501, at p. *5 (same); Courtois v.
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, LLC (C.D. Cal. May 26, 2020) 2020 WL
13586024, at *1 (“numerous other courts have concluded that 12 C.F.R. § 1024.38
does not provide a private right of action”); and Austerberry v. Wells Fargo
Home Mortgage. (E.D. Mich. Dec. 7, 2015) 2015 WL 8031857, at *5 (“while
Plaintiff is protected by § 1024.38(b)(2), she lacks a private right of action
to enforce [it]”).
 
            Although
the unpublished federal district court cases Defendant cites are not binding,
the Court nonetheless finds them persuasive and instructive in interpreting the
federal regulation at issue.  Moreover,
Plaintiff does not address the third cause of action in his opposition.  (Herzberg v. County of Plumas (2005)
133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20 [noting a plaintiff’s failure to oppose a demurrer to a
cause of action or portion thereof constitutes an abandonment of the issue or
claim].)
 
            Therefore,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Fourth Cause
of Action – Unfair Competition
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action for unfair competition, because (1) Plaintiff
does not allege any predicate unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent business
practice; (2) Plaintiff lacks standing because he cannot allege any lost money
or property; and (3) Plaintiff lacks standing because he cannot allege the lost
money or property was proximately caused by Defendant.
 
Predicate Violation
 
Because, as discussed above,
the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of
action, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded a predicate violation of law to support
the third cause of action for unfair competition.
 
Standing & Causation
 
            With
respect to monetary damages and causation, Plaintiff alleges:
 
66.  Here,
as a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s unfair and unlawful conduct,
Plaintiff’s interests in the subject property is in jeopardy, as Defendants
have unlawfully recorded a Notice of Default and Notice of Trustee’s Sale,
indicating their intention to proceed with the foreclosure process. Lastly, due
to Defendant’s unfair and unlawful conduct, Plaintiff has suffered actual
monetary injury, as Plaintiff has needlessly incurred late fees, penalties and
costs on his monthly mortgage payment without receiving the benefit of the
parties’ bargain.            
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff adequately alleges that Defendant’s refusal to offer Plaintiff a loan
modification has caused Plaintiff to incur late fees, penalties, and costs on
his mortgage he would not have incurred, had Defendant modified Plaintiff’s
loan.  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant
has taken several steps in furtherance of foreclosing on Plaintiff’s home,
including recording a notice of default (FAC ¶ 24) and a notice of trustee’s
sale (FAC ¶ 26), further putting title to Plaintiff’s home in jeopardy.  Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately alleged
standing and causation.
            
            As
such, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Defendant moves to strike allegations regarding punitive damages,
emotional distress, attorneys’ fees, as well as all allegations for “damages,”
on the basis that damages are not available for violations of the Homeowners
Bill of Rights pre-trustee’s sale or under California’s Unfair Competition Law,
Business and Professions Code sections 17200 et seq.  
 
A.   
Punitive Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
Here, Plaintiff does not allege fraud, nor does it allege any conduct
demonstrating oppression or malice on the part of Defendant’s corporate
leaders.  Moreover, Plaintiff does not
address Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages in the opposition.  (See Herzberg, supra, 133
Cal.App.4th at p. 20.)
 
Therefore the Court strikes from Prayer for Damages: “6. For exemplary
damages in an amount sufficient to punish Defendants’ wrongful conduct and
deter future misconduct;” in its entirety.
 
B.   
Emotional Distress
 
Defendant first argues that Plaintiff has not substantiated the
request for emotional distress damages. 
(See Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 [limiting damages
for emotional distress to torts where there are allegations of physical injury
and contracts where there has been bodily harm or “serious emotional
disturbance was a particularly likely result” of the contract’s breach, noting
“contracts pertaining to one’s dwelling are not among those contracts which, if
breached, are particularly likely to result in serious emotional disturbance”].)
 
            Plaintiff does not address
Defendant’s motion to strike references to emotional distress in the
Opposition, and has therefore abandoned the issue.  (See Herzberg, supra, 133
Cal.App.4th at p. 20.)
 
Therefore, the Court strikes from the FAC the words “severe emotional
distress” from paragraph 67 of the FAC and the words “damages for emotional
distress” from paragraph 5 of the Prayer. 

 
C.   
Attorneys’ Fees
 
Defendant requests the requests for attorneys’ fees be stricken
because “Plaintiff fails to state any statutory or contractual basis supporting
his recovery of attorneys’ fees.” 
(Motion to Strike at p. 9.)  The
Court disagrees.  The Court has overruled
Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action for violations of
Civil Code sections 2923.7 and 2924.9, and Section 2924.12, subdivision (h)
expressly authorizes reasonable attorneys’ fees in an action brought to enforce
violations of those sections.  
 
Therefore, the Court declines to strike Plaintiff’s request for
attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the first and second causes of
action.
 
However, Plaintiff does not cite any statutory or contractual basis
for attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the Fourth Cause of Action for
Unfair Competition.  As such, the Court
strikes the words “reasonable attorney’s fees” from paragraph 70 of the FAC.
 
D.   
Damages under the Homeowners Bill of Rights
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s request for damages pursuant to
Civil Code sections 2923.7 and 2924.9 should be stricken because the home has
not sold yet, meaning only injunctive relief is available at this time.  
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff indicates, “Plaintiff concedes that a
pre-foreclosure sale claim for violation of Civil Code § 2923.7 does not
entitle Plaintiff to damages” and “Plaintiff does not seek damages pursuant to
his claim for violation of Civil Code § 2924.9.”  (Opposition at p. 2.)
 
However, Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s request to strike any portion
of paragraph 37, arguing that those allegations are necessary to sustain
Plaintiff’s claim for violation of section 2923.7, and Plaintiff objects to
striking any portion of paragraph 40, which does not contain any allegation of
damages.
 
Therefore, the Court strikes the following:
 
·      
the words “Damages and” from the FAC’s caption; 
·      
the words “and damages” from paragraph 39; 
·      
the words “For Damages” from page 12, line 10 of
the FAC; 
·      
the word “damages” from paragraph 4 of the
Prayer
·      
the words “compensatory damages, special
damages, damages for emotional distress,” from paragraph 5 of the Prayer
 
The Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike references to “damages”
in all other respects.
 
E.   
Damages Pursuant to Business and Professions
Code sections 17200 et seq.
 
Defendant argues “[t]he California Supreme Court has unequivocally
held that damages are not available under the Unfair Business Practices Act.”  (Motion to Strike at p. 5 [collecting
cases].)  The Court agrees.  However, Plaintiff does not request damages
pursuant to the fourth cause of action. 
(See FAC ¶ 69 [“Plaintiff further seeks restitution, disgorgement of
sums wrongfully obtained by Defendant for all foreclosure fees and costs during
the time Plaintiff was engaged in loss mitigation efforts with the Defendant”];
¶ 70 (“Plaintiff additionally seeks costs of suit, reasonable attorney’s fees,
and such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.”)  
 
The allegations of paragraph 67 (“Plaintiff was injured and suffered
actual damages including but not limited to, loss of money and property[…]”) implicate
Plaintiff’s standing to bring an Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) claim.  Yet Plaintiff is not requesting damages
pursuant to the UCL.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request to strike allegations
regarding damages pursuant to the fourth cause of action for Unfair
Competition.  
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of
showing in what manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment
would change the legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.
(See The Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven
Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff
does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a
demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint
deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden because Plaintiff’s
oppositions do not indicate any specific facts Plaintiff could add to the complaint
to address the deficiencies the Court has identified.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the First, Second, and Fourth Causes of Action, and sustains without leave
to amend Defendant’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court grants in part Defendant’s Motion to Strike, and
strikes the following from the FAC:
 
·      
The words “6. For exemplary damages in an amount
sufficient to punish Defendants’ wrongful conduct and deter future misconduct;”
from the Prayer;
 
·      
The words “severe emotional distress” from
paragraph 67 of the FAC; 
 
·      
The words “damages for emotional distress” from
paragraph 5 of the Prayer;  
 
·      
The words “reasonable attorney’s fees” from
paragraph 70 of the FAC;
 
·      
The words “Damages and” from the FAC’s caption; 
 
·      
The words “and damages” from paragraph 39 of the
FAC; 
 
·      
The words “For Damages” from page 12, line 10 of
the FAC; 
 
·      
The word “damages” from paragraph 4 of the
Prayer; and
 
·      
The words “compensatory damages, special
damages, damages for emotional distress,” from paragraph 5 of the Prayer.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is denied in all
other respects.
 
The Court further orders Defendant to file an Answer to the FAC on or
before May 29, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 8, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


