 Case Number:  23SMCV03392    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03392




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the Second
  Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant California Fair Plan Association




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Erin Hughes



 
MOTIONS
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff Erin Hughes (“Plaintiff”) filed a First
Amended Complaint, alleging six causes of action: (1) breach of insurance
policy contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) negligence; (4) fraud; (5) negligent misrepresentation; and (6) unfair
business practices.  
 
On January 30, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant California Fair
Plan Association’s (“Defendant”) demurrer to the third cause of action for
negligence without leave to amend on the grounds that insurers, like Defendant,
generally owe no duty of care to their insureds as a matter of law, and
sustained Defendant’s demurrers to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of
action for fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and unfair business practices
with leave to amend.
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint, alleging
five causes of action for (1) breach of insurance policy contract; (2) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) fraud; (4) negligent
misrepresentation; and (5) unfair business practices, omitting the negligence
cause of action.
 
Defendant now demurs to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action
for fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and unfair business practices,
respectively, for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision  (e).  Defendant
also moves to strike the allegations and requests for punitive damages.  
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendant replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following documents:
 
1.    
Exhibit A – Insurance Policy No. CFP 2697143 00 issued
by Defendant to Plaintiff for effective policy period December 12, 2020 to
December 12, 2021.  
 
2.    
Exhibit 1 attached to the Request for Judicial Notice
filed in support of Carrington Mortgage Services, LLC’s Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint on March 1, 2024 - Deed of Trust recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office on July 16, 2007 as Instrument No. 2007167387.
 
3.    
Page 14 of the Court’s January 30, 2024 Minute Order.
 
With respect to Exhibit A, Defendant makes the request pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h) as “facts and propositions that are
not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”
 
Evidence Code section 452 is not mandatory, but permissive, providing
that judicial notice may be taken.  
 
In support of Defendant’s request, Defendant cites to several cases as
standing for the proposition that courts may properly take judicial notice of
private contracts generally as facts and propositions not reasonably subject to
dispute and capable of immediate and accurate determination by sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.  The
Court disagrees that the cited cases establish such a principle.
 
In Sheet Metal Workers Internat. Assn., Local Union No. 104 v. Rea,
the court took judicial notice of the prevailing wage determinations for San
Mateo and Santa Clara Counties as “official acts of an executive department of
this state” pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c), not as “facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy” pursuant to subdivision (h).  (Sheet Metal Workers Internat. Assn., Local
Union No. 104 v. Rea (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1071, 1075.)
 
Similarly, in Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the court
took judicial notice of the purchase and assumption agreement posted on the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) website and its legal effect, both as an
official act of the executive branch pursuant to subdivision (c) and as facts
and propositions not reasonably subject to dispute and capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy
[the FDIC’s official website].  (Scott
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 753.)
 
At issue in Ascherman v. General Reinsurance Corp. was whether
it was proper for the trial and appellate courts to consider judicially
noticeable evidence in ruling on a demurrer, not whether the specific evidence
at issue was properly subject to judicial notice.  In any event, the appellate court noted that
the trial court took judicial notice of the reinsurance contract pursuant to
subdivisions (c) and (h), which suggests that the reinsurance contract at issue
involved some official government act, which also made it capable of
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.  (Ascherman v. General Reinsurance Corp
(1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 307, 311.)
 
Finally, in Hendy v. Losse, the parties did not dispute whether
it was proper for the trial court to take judicial notice of the National
Football League employment contract and collective bargaining agreement between
the league’s management council and the National Football League Players
Association, so the California Supreme Court did not analyze the issue.  (Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723,
728.)
 
Here, Defendant does not cite to any authority that a private contract
between litigants is somehow capable of determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.  Therefore,
the Court declines to take judicial notice of the insurance policy.
 
With respect to the Deed of Trust, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real
property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably
disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
 
The Court notes that the Deed of Trust bears the stamp of a notary
public and bears the stamp of the recorder’s office, as well as an official
instrument number, placing it beyond reasonable dispute.  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Deed as well as the legal consequences thereof.
 
With respect to page 14 of the Court’s January 30, 2024 Minute Order, judicial notice may be taken of records of any
court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d)(1).)  Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Third
and Fourth Causes of Action – Fraud & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff fails
to plead the fraud-based causes of action with requisite specificity – Plaintiff
fails to allege any misrepresentations Defendant made, Defendant’s knowledge
that the representations were false, or Plaintiff’s detrimental reliance on
those representations.     
 
Misrepresentations
 
With respect to Defendant’s
alleged misrepresentations, Plaintiff alleges:
 
10. The Plaintiff timely made a claim to CFP,
however, CFP negligently and in bad faith: 
 
(a) Misrepresented the maximum available
insurance coverage to Plaintiff and concealed that the maximum dwelling and
property coverage available was $3,000,000;
 
[…]
 
(c) Intentionally Misrepresented the estimates
for rebuilding the dwelling it provided to Hughes with the help of William Ball
and Crawford & Company. […]
 
(d) CFP and Carrington Unreasonably and
fraudulently delayed payment of policy benefits and intentionally stalled the
rebuild of the property […]
 
(e) CFP Failed to accurately specify the
allocation of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits causing Carrington
Mortgage to refuse to pay these funds to Plaintiff;
 
(f) CFP wrongfully refused to pay Fair Rental
Value to Plaintiff for her relocation expenses. In fact based on a conversation
overheard by Plaintiff between CFP and Carrington’s representative , Carrington
instructed CFP and the latter agreed not to pay full Fair Rental Value to
Plaintiff because Carrington wanted to keep more of the insurance proceeds to
itself.
 
(g) CFP wrongfully issued a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her plants
 
20. CFP acted in bad faith and without proper
cause when it: 
 
(a) Unreasonably delayed payment of policy
benefits and intentionally stalled the claim by issuing an erroneous estimate
for rebuild of the dwelling, use of outdated and incorrect floor plans by
Defendants CFP, WILLIAM BALL, as well as CRAWFORD & COMPANY who prepared
incorrect estimates and floor plans of Plaintiff’s property which they refused
to revise causing delay and ultimate freezing of $802,135.01 in insurance
benefits payments by Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage Services LLC ; 
 
(b) Failed to accurately specify the allocation
of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits causing Carrington Mortgage to
refuse to pay these funds to Plaintiff; 
 
(c) Wrongfully issuing a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her vegetation; 
 
(d) Wrongfully and intentionally issuing faulty
rebuild estimates through CRAWFORD & COMPANY as well as estimator/adjuster
WILLIAM BALL which were lacking sufficient detail for allocation of insurance
benefits and which caused Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage Services
LLC to refuse the release to Plaintiff of approximately $802,135.01 in
insurance benefits;
 
[…]
 
24. The Defendants conspired to defraud the
Plaintiff out of her insurance benefits by making multiple misrepresentations
to Plaintiff and concealing their scheme to defraud her by:
 
FRAUDULENT MISREPRESENTATION BY CFP 
 
(a) On or about January 2021 California Fair Plan
assigned Kwanza Johnson, a claims examiner, as well as James Garner claims
manager to oversee Plaintiff’s fire damaged property claim and disbursement of
the insurance funds for the fire build-back of her property. In or about
January of 2021 Kwanza Johnson falsely represented to plaintiff in a telephone
conversation that her property will be inspected, and an accurate estimate for
rebuild will be prepared by a competent estimator based on whose estimate the
insurance funds will be distributed to her.
 
[…]
 
Kwanza Johnson and James Garner falsely
represented to plaintiff in telephone conversations on or about May 2021,
September 13, 2021, October 12, 2021 that this estimate was accurate and must
be used for disbursement of Plaintiff’s insurance funds, and that no changes to
the estimates must be made. Kwanza Johnson also falsely represented in
telephone conversation in May of 2021 that the check for $225,000 issued by
California Fair Plan in May of 2021 as an advance on the rebuild should not be
matched to the estimate of William Ball as it lacked a specific description of
the building materials it was meant to cover. Johnson knew that these
representations were not true as Carrington requested further specification
from California Fair Plan as to the purpose of the $225,000, which Fair Plan
failed to provide.
 
[…]
 
On or about June 8, 2022 Kwanza Johnson as well
as Garner made further false representations over the phone to Plaintiff,
claiming that all that is required for release of Plaintiff’s insurance funds
is Ball’s second building estimate in excess of the maximum of her policy
coverage.  […]
 
(d) In fact these representations by Johnson and
Garner were false since Carrington refused to release plaintiff’s insurance
funds because the checks issued by California Fair Plan did not match Ball’s
estimate, Ball’s estimate was not based on original floor plans and contained
misrepresentations as stated in this complaint, and Fair Plan failed to specify
what each check disbursement was covering based on Ball’s estimate. Johnson and
Garner knew these representations were false since Carrington demanded more
specificity for funds disbursement which Kwanza Johnson and Garner of
California Fair Plan refused to provide.
 
(SAC
¶¶ 10, 20, 24.)  
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff alleges that in
a phone conversation in January 2021, Defendant’s representative, Kwanza
Johnson misrepresented “that her property will be inspected, and an accurate
estimate for rebuild will be prepared by a competent estimator based on whose
estimate the insurance funds will be distributed to her[.]”  (SAC ¶ 24.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that in telephone conversations with Kwanza
Johnson on May 2021, September 13, 2021, and October 12, 2021, “Kwanza Johnson
and James Garner falsely represented to plaintiff […] that this estimate was
accurate and must be used for disbursement of Plaintiff’s insurance funds, and
that no changes to the estimates must be made” and in May 2021, Johnson “also
falsely represented […] that the check for $225,000 issued by California Fair
Plan in May of 2021 as an advance on the rebuild should not be matched to the
estimate of William Ball as it lacked a specific description of the building
materials it was meant to cover.”  (Ibid.)  Even further, Plaintiff alleges that on June
8, 2022, Johnson misrepresented that Defendant was just waiting on the second
estimate from Ball to disburse the insurance funds.  (Ibid.) 
 
Therefore, the SAC contains sufficiently specific allegations about
the who, what, when, and how Defendant’s alleged misrepresentations were
made.  
 
Defendant contends the alleged misrepresentations are opinion
estimates, and therefore not misrepresentations as a matter of law.  
 
“[E]xpressions of opinion are
not generally treated as representations of fact, and thus are not grounds for
a misrepresentation cause of action.” (Neu-Visions Sports, Inc. v. Soren/McAdam/Bartells
(2000) 86 Cal.App.4th 303, 308.)
 
But Plaintiff does not allege
that Defendant’s misrepresentation was the estimate Ball submitted to Defendant.  Rather, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
insurer’s agents Kwanza Johnson and James Garner misrepresented the process and
conditions upon which Defendant would issue Plaintiff payments.   
 
Defendant’s Knowledge of Falsity
 
With regard to Defendant’s knowledge of falsity, the Complaint
alleges:
 
Johnson knew that these representations were not
true as Carrington requested further specification from California Fair Plan as
to the purpose of the $225,000, which Fair Plan failed to provide.
 
(SAC
¶ 24.)
 
            Plaintiff further alleges:
 
based on a conversation overheard by Plaintiff
between CFP and Carrington’s representative , Carrington instructed CFP and the
latter agreed not to pay full Fair Rental Value to Plaintiff because Carrington
wanted to keep more of the insurance proceeds to itself.
 
(SAC
¶ 10.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged sufficient facts that CFP knowingly made false representations to
Plaintiff with the intent to deny Plaintiff’s claim in bad faith.
 
            Plaintiff’s Detrimental Reliance
 
With regard to detrimental reliance, as Defendant acknowledges, the
SAC alleges:
 
Plaintiff incurred an expense of hiring an
architect to prepared floor plans for her property, and use of the estimates
which called for purchase of building materials in reliance on representations
of Kwanza Johnson, and James Garner.
 
[…]
 
Plaintiff relied on these representations in
continuing rebuilding of the property including doing debris removal, working
with her architect, and waiting for her funds to be distributed.
 
[…]
 
California Fair Plan intended for Plaintiff to
rely on these misrepresentations and as a result of such reliance Plaintiff was
harmed as her insurance proceeds were not released by Carrington causing a
delay of three years in rebuilding her property, citations by the LA City, and
a lawsuit by Carrington against her including a judicial foreclosure proceeding
which resulted in legal fees expense to Plaintiff as well as emotional distress
 
(SAC
¶ 24.)  Therefore, Plaintiff also adequately
pleads detrimental reliance to withstand demurrer.
 
            As such, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Fifth
Cause of Action – Unfair Business Practices
 
Business and Professions Code section 17200, known as the Unfair Competition
Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500)
of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice or act
within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant to
business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of Am. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.) 
“By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business practice, section 17200 borrows
violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair
competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  Moreover, “a practice may be deemed unfair
even if not specifically proscribed by some other law.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiff does not allege Defendant engaged
in any unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent conduct; and (2) Plaintiff has not
demonstrated an entitlement to restitution or injunctive relief.  
 
As discussed above, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged fraudulent misrepresentations.  
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff is
not entitled to restitution because Plaintiff alleges it was Carrington who
wrongfully withheld the funds from Plaintiff, not Defendant.  However, the SAC also alleges Defendant:
 
(b) Wrongfully and in bad faith failed to Pay To
Plaintiff the full $1.2 Million dwelling insurance coverage;
 
[…]
 
(f)  CFP
wrongfully refused to pay Fair Rental Value to Plaintiff for her relocation
expenses. 
 
[…]
 
(g) CFP wrongfully issued a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her plants
 
(SAC ¶ 10.) 
Thus, Plaintiff adequately pleads restitution as to Defendant.
 
            Defendant
finally argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to injunctive relief, because
there is no continuing conduct to enjoin. 
The Court notes that the Second Amended Complaint does not request
injunctive relief.
  
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
 
2.    
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s references to and requests for punitive damages.  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)           
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not
imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity
Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) 
“Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of
recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a
corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s
employees.  But the law does not impute
every employee’s malice to the corporation. 
Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among
corporate leaders:  the officers,
directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz
v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
Here, as discussed above, although Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts to state the causes of action sounding in fraud, Plaintiff has not
alleged with requisite specificity that one of Defendant’s corporate leaders
engaged in oppression, fraud, or malice sufficient to support Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages.   Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s motion
to strike requests for punitive damages from the SAC.
 
However, the Court notes that Defendant included in its motion to
strike the phrase “. . . and emotional distress damages.” From the Prayer for
Relief as to the First-Fifth Cause of Action at ¶ 4:18.)  Defendant’s motion does not address emotional
distress damages.  Therefore, the Court
declines to strike this clause from the SAC.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
In the opposition, Plaintiff requests leave to amend, but does not
specify any allegations that could cure the deficiency identified by the
Court.  Therefore, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend the request for punitive damages.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 

 
Further, the Court grants in part and denies in part Defendant’s
motion to strike.  The Court strikes the
following from the second amended complaint without leave to
amend:
 
1. “Due to the malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, and Does 2-50, Plaintiff is entitled to
exemplary damages.” (SAC ¶ 22, 9:2-3.) 
 
2. “Due to the malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, and Does 1-50, Plaintiff is entitled to
exemplary damages.” (SAC ¶ 27, 15:6-7.) 
 
3. “. . . and punitive damages due to malice of
the Defendants.” (SAC ¶ 31, 15:23- 24.) 
 
4. “4) For punitive damages;” (FAC, Prayer for
Relief as to the First – Fifth Cause of Action, ¶ 4:18.)
 
 
Defendant’s request to strike the phrase “. . . and emotional distress
damages.” is denied.
 
Defendant shall file and serve an answer to the SAC on or before May
29, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 8, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court