  Case Number:  22PSCV01402    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT WEN WEN JIANG’S NOTICE OF
MOTION AND MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE AGAINST DEFENDANT TOMAS DELGADO; AND
REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $4,461.65 AGAINST DEFENDANT
TOMAS DELGADO AND SEMPER LAW GROUP LLP is GRANTED; monetary sanctions
are imposed in the requested amount.[1] 
 
Background
 
This is a fraud case. Plaintiff WEN WEN JIANG alleges the
following against Defendant TOMAS DELGADO: Plaintiff is the owner of two
vehicles, a Tesla and Prius. Plaintiff’s husband, Antonio Wong (Wong), “gave
Delgado an envelope full of titles which were intended to be the titles of the
business vehicles” (Complaint P11) wherein Wong pledged various vehicles as
collateral for but Wong inadvertently gave vehicle titles to Plaintiff’s two
vehicles. Plaintiff asserts that based thereon, Delgado has unlawful possession
of the two vehicles.[2] 
 
On February 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit for: (1)
Fraudulent Concealment (2) Conversion (3) Negligent Misrepresentation (4)
Unjust Enrichment (5) Intentional Misrepresentation (6) Intentional Infliction
Of Emotional Distress. 
 
On January 3, 2023, Defendant filed his answer.
 
On January 4, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint for
Express Indemnity; Equitable Indemnity; Breach Of Contract; Fraud; Conspiracy
To Commit Fraud; Declaratory Relief.
 
On February 28, 2023, Defendant filed a first amended cross
complaint. 
 
On August 28, 2023, the court denied Plaintiff’s MTS
portions of Defendant’s answer (re: attorney fees).
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendant filed a second amended
cross-complaint (2ACC). 
 
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed her answer to the 2ACC.
 
On January 24, 2024, the parties attended an IDC. The minute
order provides, in pertinent part, “Plaintiff's Counsel is to provide the Court
with a Stipulation and Order due on or before Monday, January 29, 2024, of the
issues discussed in today's Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). Counsel is to
provide the agreed upon discovery due on or before February 23, 2024.”
 
On February 26, 2024, the parties attended a CMC wherein the
court stated, in pertinent part: “[T]he Court notes that it previously ordered
Plaintiff's Counsel to provide the Court with a Stipulation and Order on or
before Monday, January 29, 2024, of the issues discussed in Informal Discovery
Conference (IDC) held on January 24, 2024; no such Stipulation and Order is on
file. Parties are ordered to meet and confer this week regarding drafting of
the Stipulation and Order; if unsuccessful in drafting a Stipulation and Order,
a Motion to Compel may be filed.”[3]
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion.
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendant filed his opposition. 
 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply. 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion seeking to compel in full
with Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One, that was propounded on April
14, 2023. The specific discovery at issue are the following: 
 
1) text messages between
cross-Defendant Wong and Defendant Delgado, 
2) titles delivered to Defendant
Delgado by Cross-Defendant Wong, and 
3) text messages from OC Sheriff
Deputy Orlando Salinas. (Motion p. 1.) 
 
Additionally, Defendant failed to provide documents that are
in usable form (as required by CCP § 2031.280(d)(1)) because 5 of the 13 PDF
files submitted are illegible (either blurry, did not contain the entire
document, and/or contained stray marks). 
 
In opposition, Defendant maintains he has produced the
discovery. 
 
Here, however, a review of the exhibits and Plaintiff’s
opposition corroborates Plaintiff’s point that Defendnat has not fully and
properly responded to discovery. 
 
1.    
Labeling 
 
First, according to CCP § 2031.280(a), a party is to sort
and label documents with categories in the document demand no matter how many
documents are produced. Here, however, Defendant’s documents are merely named
after Defendant. Therefore, Defendant has not complied with CCP section
2031.280’s labeling requirements.[4]
 
2.    
Texts between Plaintiff and Defendant
 
Second, as for the texts, Plaintiff argues that there may be
more in the text message chain because the photo somewhat cuts off the complete
text.[5] Therefore,
should there be more messages, then Defendant has not produced all text
messages between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
 
3.    
Title Copies 
 
Third, Defendant failed to provide legible copies of the
title documents (called pink slips in the opposition) as required by CCP §
2031.280(d)(1). Despite Defendant’s contention in opposition, the court agrees
with Plaintiff that they are not legible copies. It is unclear why legible
copies cannot be produced if Defendant maintains possession of the title
copies. (And in fact, according to Plaintiff, Defendant and his counsel claimed
that they would provide “cleaner copies” as far back as July 2023.) Therefore,
Defendant is to produce complete and legible documents. 
 
4.    
Texts between Defendant and Salinas 
 
Fourth, though the court does not have access to the bates
stamped documents produced, Plaintiff maintains that Defendant has not produced
text message(s) from Deputy Salinas because what was produced is an email and
not a text message. Therefore, as Defendant’s verified discovery responses
claimed the existence of text messages (not emails) which Defendant has not
produced, Defendant is ordered to produce the text messages. 
 
5.    
Sanctions
 
As for sanctions, though this court generally refrains from
imposing monetary sanctions, here, the court does so as it has been one year
that Plaintiff is waiting for discovery. 
Plaintiff seeks $4,461.65 against Defendant Tomas Delgado
and her attorneys of record, Semper Law Group LLP ($425/hour, 5.5 hours
drafting motion, 1 hours reviewing opposition, 1.5 hours drafting reply and
filing fee).[6] 
 
Here, utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the court
determines that Plaintiff’s requested sanctions are reasonable as is.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is granted, and monetary sanctions are imposed in the
total amount of $4,461.65, which is payable within 20 days of this
order. 


