 Case Number:  23PSCV00979    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant Ven-Chee Koh dba Win Way Academy’s MOTTON FOR
RECONSIDERATION OF COURT'S ORDER OF JANUARY 30, 2024 DENYING DEFENDANTS' MOTION
TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT is DENIED as no new evidence has
been provided. 
 
Background
 
This is a contracts case arising from the alleged breach of
a commercial rental agreement. 
 
On April 4, 2023, Plaintiff RKW & MLW Fmy Lmt Prtsp I, a
CA LP DBA Walnut Commercentre filed suit against Defendant Ven-Ghee Koh, an
individual DBA Win Way Academy alleging damages of $37,862.48, with interesting
continuing to accure on the past due rent. 
 
On May 18, 2023, default was entered against Defendant. 
 
On July 18, 2023, default judgment was entered against
Defendant in the amount of $48,039.08. 
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to set aside
default and default judgment, which the court on January 30, 2024, the court
denied without prejudice. 
 
On February 9, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion.
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
On April 17, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply. 
 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
A formal
notice of ruling is required to set the time limit running to file a motion for
reconsideration. The 10-day time limit runs from service of notice of entry of
the order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) 
 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008: 
 
When an application for an order has
been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law,
make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider
the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before,
when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or
different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008)
(emphasis added)
 
Discussion
 
The court denied Defendant’s motion to set aside default and
default judgment because Defendant failed to produce evidence to overcome the
presumption that service was proper. 
 
Now, Defendant brings forth the motion on the grounds of new
evidence. The new evidence is (1) the declaration of the parent of the
individual with whom Defendant was tutoring and (2) the declaration of Cesar
Olivia, a neighbor who lives on Defendant’s street stating that Defendant lives
alone. 
 
However,
neither is new evidence. 
 
As noted by Plaintiff in opposition, the burden is
comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly
discovered evidence; that is, the information must be such that the moving
party could not with reasonable diligence have discovered or produced it at
trial. (Opp. p. 5, citing New York Times Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213, emphasis added.)[1]
 
Here, Defendant could have provided the declarations
at some during the pendency of the motion (i.e., in the motion, in the reply,
or during the hearing).[2] Instead,
Defendant presented the white robe during the hearing stating that a
person was not served but that the robe, hanging behind the front door, essentially
gave the illusion that someone was home. (See also Reply p. 4:3-4 [“Defendant's
robe hanging on the back of the door for more privacy due to the glass
structure of the door for privacy purposes.”].) As stated in the court’s ruling
on the motion to set aside default judgment, a registered process server’s
declaration of service establishes a presumption that the facts stated in the
declaration are true. The photograph submitted from the process server and
their declaration shows an individual behind the glass door and this was the
same individual who accepted service of process. The robe did not accept
service. 
 
To the extent that in Reply Defendant attempts to
characterize Plaintiff’s Counsel as fraudulently claiming service in another
case (22WCUD00369),[3]
Defendant again misconstrues service. (Reply p. 4.) Plaintiff neither in this
case nor the other case is asserting that Defendant was directly served
but that Defendant was served via substituted service (i.e., member of
the household or someone authorized to accept service). Here, the individual who accepted service
identified themselves as an occupant but did not provide their name;
and that the process server was able to list all characteristic traits of the
individual who accepted service of process on behalf of Defendant. CCP section 415.20 provides no
requirement that the name of the individual must be stated to
effectuate valid substituted service. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s registered process server fully complied with California Code of
Civil Procedure Section 415.20(b) which defeats any claim made by Defendant
that California Code of Civil Procedure Section 473.5 was not properly complied
with. (See Opp. p. 3.)  
 
Therefore, as stated before, the burden shifted to Defendant
to present evidence to overcome the presumption of valid service—service of
which results in actual notice to Defendant[4]—but
Defendant failed to meet his burden. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, absent new evidence, the
motion for reconsideration is denied. 
 


