 Case Number:  24NNCV00061    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
HUI JEN SZUTU, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CHARLES SCHWAB, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV00061
 
  Hearing Date:  July 5, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
(1)   motion to compel arbitration and to
  dismiss or stay proceedings; and 
(2)   demurrer with motion to strike



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiffs Hui Jen Szutu and Sindy
Seto (“Plaintiffs,” in pro per) filed a complaint on March 6, 2024 for grand
theft.  Plaintiffs allege that they are
married.  They allege that Defendant
Charles Schwab (“Defendant”) is a stock company, which acquired TD Ameritrade
in 2019.  Plaintiffs allege that they had
4 accounts in TD Ameritrade—2 IRA accounts and 2 individual accounts.  They allege that they did not want their
accounts transferred to Defendant and instead transferred them to E-trade.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant failed to
complete the transfers of Plaintiffs’ assets in TD Ameritrade accounts to
E-trade per Plaintiffs’ request and, during the transfer process, Defendant
took assets from Plaintiffs’ accounts.  
On April 11, 2024, Defendant Charles
Schwab & Co., Inc. filed an answer to the unverified complaint. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
demurrer to Defendant’s answer with a motion to strike.  On May 13, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief.  
On May 14, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to compel arbitration and to dismiss or stay the proceedings.  On June 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
untimely opposition brief.  On June 27,
2024, Defendant filed a reply brief.
The Court will consider the merits of the
motion to compel arbitration first, as it may render the demurrer to the answer
moot.  
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Request for Judicial Notice 

With the motion papers, Defendant requests
judicial notice of the following facts: (1) on September 18, 2017, TD
Ameritrade Holding Corporation acquired Scottrade Financial Services, Inc.; and
(2) on October 6, 2020, The Charles Schwab Corporation acquired TD Ameritrade
Holding Corporation.  (See RJN Ex. 1
[Form 8-K filed with the SEC on 9/18/17], Ex. 2 [Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
10/6/20].)  The request is granted.  
B.    
Discussion of Merits 
Defendant
argues that this action should be submitted to arbitration based on 4 different
agreements arising from: (1) Mr. Szutu’s individual account, (2) Mr. Szutu’s
IRA account, (3) Ms. Seto’s individual account, and (4) Ms. Seto’s IRA
account.  
First, Defendant
provides the Brokerage Account Application that Mr. Szutu signed on June 10,
2003 in connection with opening his individual account (xxx-x7545) at Scottrade
Inc.  (Maryann Allen Decl. re Charles
Schwab Custodian of Business Records [Allen Decl.], Ex. A [Szutu’s 6/10/03 Brokerage
Account Application].)  It states in
relevant part: 
BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT I
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE RECEIVED, READ AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS OF THE
ACCOMPANYING BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AGREEMENT WHICH CONTAINS A PRE-DISPUTE
ARBITRATION CLAUSE AT PARAGRAPH 21.
(Szutu’s 6/10/03 Brokerage
Account Application at p.1.)  Paragraph
21 of the Brokerage Account Agreement states: 
Arbitration Disclosures
21. You agree to settle by arbitration any
dispute between you and Scottrade and/or any of our officers, directors, employees
or agents relating to your Brokerage Account(s). Any arbitration under this agreement
will be conducted under the arbitration rules of the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. or any registered national securities exchange of
which Scottrade is a member. Arbitration may be initiated by either of us
serving written notice to the other. … 
- Arbitration is final and binding on the
parties. 
- The parties are waiving their right to seek
remedies in court, including the right to jury trial.
…
(Allen Decl., Ex.
B [Scottrade Brokerage Account Agreement at ¶21].)  The Brokerage Account Agreement states in
paragraph 14 “Assignment” that Mr. Szutu’s Account Agreement with Scottrade
“shall inure to the benefit of Scottrade and its successors and assigns.
Scottrade may assign its rights and duties under this agreement to any
affiliate, subsidiary or successor without notice to you or to any other
entity.”  (Id. at ¶14.)  In 2017, Ameritrade Holding Corporation
acquired Scottrade Financial Services, Inc., such that Mr. Szutu’s Scottrade
account as transferred to TD Ameritrade, Inc. and assigned a new account
number.  (Allen Decl., ¶4; Compl. at p.2,
line 5 [referencing TD Ameritrade account numbers]; Def.’s RJN Ex. 1.)  In 2020, The Charles Schwab Corporation
acquired TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation. 
(Def.’s RJN Ex. 2.)  
Second, Defendant
provides the Scottrade Brokerage Account Application regarding Mr. Szutu, dated
May 4, 2017 in connection with opening his IRA (xxx-xx1293) at Scottrade
Inc.  (Allen Decl., Ex. C [Szutu’s 5/4/17
Brokerage Account Application].)  It
states in relevant part: 
BY SIGNING BELOW, I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE
RECEIVED, READ AND AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THE SCOTTRADE BROKERAGE ACCOUNT
AGREEMENT, WHICH CONTAINS A PRE-DISPUTE ARBITRATION PROVISION ON PAGE 11,
SECTION VII-B, WHICH MAY BE ENFORCED BY THE PARTIES. … 
(Szutu’s 5/4/17 Brokerage
Account Application at p.2.)[1]  Section VII-B of the Brokerage Account
Agreement states: 
Arbitration Disclosures.  This Agreement contains a predispute
arbitration clause. By signing this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
1. All parties to this Agreement are giving up
the right to sue each other in court, including the right to a trial by jury,
except as provided by the rules of the arbitration forum in which a claim is
filed.
…
Agreement to Arbitrate Controversies. You agree that any
controversy, dispute, claim or grievance between us, any of our affiliates, or
our or their shareholders, officers, directors, employees, associates or
agents, and you or, if applicable, your shareholders, officers, directors,
employees, associates or agents, arising out of, or relating to, this
Agreement, or any service provided by us, including transactions of any kind
made on your behalf through us, shall be resolved by Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) arbitration, in accordance with FINRA's Code of
Arbitration Procedure.
(Allen Decl., Ex. D
[Scottrade Brokerage Account Agreement at § VII-B].)  The Brokerage Account Agreement states in Section
VIII-E “Applicable Rules and Regulations; Governing Law and Assignment” that: “This Agreement and its enforcement shall be … shall inure to the benefit of
our successors and assigns, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise; and
shall be binding upon your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and
personal representatives, together with all other persons claiming any legal or
beneficial interest through you or in your Account(s). You may not assign the
rights and duties hereunder without first obtaining our prior written consent.
We may assign our rights and duties under this Agreement and may transfer your
Account and this Agreement to our successors and any affiliated assigns without
notice, or to any other entity without prior notice to you.”  (Id. at § VIII-E.)  In 2017, Ameritrade Holding Corporation
acquired Scottrade Financial Services, Inc., such that Mr. Szutu’s Scottrade
account as transferred to TD Ameritrade, Inc. and assigned a new account
number.  (Allen Decl., ¶4; Compl. at p.2,
line 5 [referencing TD Ameritrade account numbers]; Def.’s RJN Ex. 1.)  As summarized above, in 2017, Scottrade was
acquired by TD Ameritrade.  (See RJN Ex.
1.)  
Third, Defendant
provides the Account Agreement that Ms. Seto electronically signed on January
29, 2018 in connection with opening her individual account (xxx-xx1447) at TD
Ameritrade.  (Allen Decl., Ex. A [Seto’s 1/29/18
TD Ameritrade Agreement].)  It states in
relevant part under “Client Agreement” and again before the electronic
signature: 
The Client Agreement
applicable to this brokerage account contains predispute arbitration clauses.
By signing this agreement, the parties agree to be bound by the terms of the
agreement (including the arbitration agreement). The predispute arbitration clauses
is included in Section 12 of the Client Agreement, on pages 7 and 8.
(Seto’s 1/29/18 TD
Ameritrade Agreement at pp. 3 and 4.)  Section
12 of the Client Agreement entitled “ARBITRATION” states: RBITRATION
This Agreement contains a
predispute arbitration clause. By signing an arbitration clause, the parties
agree as follows:
• All parties to this Agreement
are giving up their right to sue each other in court, including the right to
jury trial, except as provided by the rules of the arbitration forum in which a
claim is filed.
…
I agree that any controversy
between you and your affiliates, any of their respective officers, directors,
employees, or agents and me (including any of my officers, directors,
employees, or agents) arising out of or relating to this Agreement, our
relationship, any Services provided by you, or the use of the Services, and
whether arising before or after the date of this Agreement, shall be arbitrated
and conducted under the provisions of the Code of Arbitration of the FINRA. …
(Allen Decl., Ex. F
[TD Ameritrade Client Agreement at §12].) 
The Client Agreement states in Section 14 “Assignment” that TD
Ameritrade may assign, sell, or transfer Ms. Seto’s account and the Agreement
at any time without her prior consent.  In
2020, The Charles Schwab Corporation acquired TD Ameritrade Holding
Corporation.  (Def.’s RJN Ex. 2.)  
Fourth, Defendant provides the Account Agreement
Ms. Seto electronically signed on May 24, 2019 in connection with opening her IRA
(xxx-xx0204) at TD Ameritrade.  (Allen
Decl., Ex. G [Seto’s 5/24/19 TD Ameritrade Agreement].)  It has the same language as the January 29,
2018 Agreement regarding the Client Agreement with the arbitration
provision.  (Id. at p.4.)  Section 12 of the Client Agreement also has
same language under the “ARBITRATION” heading. 
(Allen Decl., Ex. H [TD Ameritrade Client Agreement at §12].)   Section 14(d) also has the same assignment
language.  In 2020, The Charles Schwab
Corporation acquired TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation.  (Def.’s RJN Ex. 2.)  
Here, Defendant has established its burden
in showing that valid agreements to arbitrate exist.  The arbitration agreements are broad in scope
such that they cover any controversies and disputes related to the agreements,
the accounts, etc.  Further, Defendant
has shown that Scottrade was acquired by TD Ameritrade, and that TD Ameritrade
was acquired by Defendant, such that Defendant may enforce the arbitration
agreements under the various agreements as Scottrade and TD Ameritrade’s
successor and assignee.  
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they
were not provided notice pursuant to California’s Automatic Renewal Law and
thus the agreements are canceled.  (Opp.
at p.3.)  However, Plaintiffs have not
provided any legal authority for this argument. 
In addition, the agreements clearly state that no prior notice was
required to be given to Plaintiffs for any transfer of the agreements to later
successors or assigns.  Further, in the
reply brief, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s reliance on California’s Automatic
Renewal Law is misplaced because, pursuant to Business & Professions Code,
§ 17605, a securities broker-dealer like Defendant that is registered with the
SEC is exempt.  (Reply at pp.7-8.)  
Plaintiffs also argue that the agreements
are void because Defendant stole Plaintiffs’ shares, failed to transfer
Plaintiffs’ accounts as requested, and Defendant made false statements in its
answer.  However, these arguments are
directed towards the substantive merits of Plaintiffs’ claims and do not
address whether there is an enforceable agreement to artbitrate.  
For these reasons, Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is granted.  The Court
will impose a stay on the proceedings pending the resolution of the
arbitration. 
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER
            In light of the ruling on the
motion to compel arbitration, the demurrer to the answer is taken off-calendar.

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant Charles
Schwab & Co., Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  The action is stayed pending the resolution
of the arbitration.  
In light of the
ruling on the motion to compel arbitration, the demurrer is taken off-calendar.

The Court sets a
Status Conference re Arbitration for December 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
July 5, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 


