 Case Number:  24BBCV00063    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
patrick abelar,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
state farm
  general insurance company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  24BBCV00063
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 5, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff
Patrick Abelar (“Plaintiff”) alleges that in 1994, he wanted an umbrella policy
in the amount of $2,000,000 to extend all coverages on his existing automobile
policy no. P74 1741-815-751, which he purchased through Defendant State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm Mutual”), and which included
uninsured motorist coverage (“Auto Policy”).  He alleges that he was thus referred to
Defendants Auzat Insurance Agency, Inc. and Doug W. Auzat (“Auzat Defendants”)
as his State Farm agents.  He alleges
that he has had a relationship with Auzat Defendants for over 30 years and that
Auzat Defendants held themselves out to be an insurance broker and agent with
the ability to procure and place sufficient and appropriate insurance coverage
for Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that
Auzat Defendants were informed about the nature of his business and personal
insurance needs and that he sought to purchase an Umbrella Policy in the amount
of $2,000,000, which included both liability and same coverage as his Auto
Policy, including Uninsured Motorist Coverage.  Plaintiff, through Auzat Defendants, procured
a State Farm General Umbrella Policy, which was to provide excess coverage for
liability beyond the Auto Policy’s coverage, all on the exclusive advice of the
Auzat Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges he
had the Auto Policy (policy no. P74 1741-815-751) and the State Farm General
Umbrella Policy (policy no. 71-CR-E249-4) with a $2,000,000 limit per occurrence
and payable upon any insurance event.  (FAC,
¶19, Exs. A-B.)  
Plaintiff
alleges that on December 16, 2020, he was in a trench laying down conduit when
a third party driving a Dodge Ram 2500 pickup truck struck Plaintiff, running
him over.  Plaintiff alleges his medical
bills are over $2,000,000.  Plaintiff
alleges that there was a lawsuit against the at-fault parties in the Ventura
County Superior Court (Abelar v. Juan Delacruzgonzalez et al., Case No.
56-2021-00560106-CU-PA-VTA) and the parties settled for Delacruzgonzalez’s full
policy limits of $15,000.  Plaintiff
alleges that at the time of the accident, he had underinsured motorist coverage
under State Farm Mutual (policy no. 140-5411-815-758), which provided
$100,000/$300,000 coverage for an underinsured motorist claim.  Plaintiff alleges that he made a claim under
the underinsured motorist provision with State Farm Automobile and
written/procured by Auzat Defendants. 
Plaintiff alleges that after giving State Farm the requisite credit of
the first recovery of $15,000, he was paid an additional $85,000 on May 25,
2023 under the underinsured motorist provision. 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff made a claim under the underinsured
motorist provision of his $2,000,000 Umbrella Policy with State Farm General
Insurance Co. (“State Farm General”) and written/procured by Auzat Defendants
(policy no. 71-CRE249-4), but State Farm General claimed that the Umbrella
Policy did not provide coverage for the December 16, 2020 incident. 
The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed April 25, 2024, alleges causes of action for:
(1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; and (3) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing (insurance bad faith). 
B.     Motions
on Calendar 
On
May 29, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer to the 1st and 3rd
causes of action in the FAC.  Concurrently, Defendants filed a motion to
strike portions of the FAC. 
On
June 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed opposition briefs. 
On June 27, 2024,
Defendants filed reply briefs.  
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER
            Defendants
State
Farm General, State Farm Mutual, Auzat Insurance, and Auzat (“Defendants”)
demur to the 1st and 3rd causes of action in the FAC. 
1.     
1st cause of action for breach of contract
The essential elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.” 
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  
Defendants argue that the breach of
contract claim against Auzat Defendants, State Farm General, and State Farm
Mutual each fail.  
First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
not alleged a claim against Auzat Defendants as Plaintiff has not alleged that
a contractual relationship existed between Plaintiff and Auzat Defendants.  Defendants argue that while Mr. Auzat was a
captive agent for SFM and SFG, agents are not parties to an insurance
contract.  (Dem. at p. 4 [citing Minnesota
Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Ensley (9th Cir. 1999)
174 F.3d 977, 981 (“Under California law, an insurance agent cannot be held
liable for breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing because he is not a party to the
insurance contract.”)].)  
The insurance policies name Plaintiff as
the insured, State Farm, and agent Auzat. 
(See FAC, Exs. A-B.)  In the 1st
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that he entered into a contract with State Farm
General and Auzat Defendants in 1994 to have them procure an Umbrella/Excess
Insurance Policy in the amount of $2,000,000. 
(FAC, ¶29.)  Plaintiff alleges
that pursuant to the agreement, Auzat Defendants agreed to procure and obtain
umbrella insurance coverage including Uninsured Motorist Coverage in accordance
with Plaintiff’s desire.  (Id.,
¶31.)  He alleges that State Farm Mutual,
State Farm General, and Auzat Defendants breached the contract by failing to
ensure that the requested coverage by Plaintiff was properly procured.  (Id., ¶32.)  Plaintiff alleges that Mr. Auzat did not
provide Uninsured Motorist Coverage as requested, thereby breaching “said oral
agreement.”  (Id., ¶34a.)  He also alleges that on September 22, 2023, Defendants
breached the oral contract by not paying the Underinsured Motorist benefits
which they agreed to procure and obtain for Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶36d).  Plaintiff alleges that Auzat Defendants were
a captive agent for State Farm General and State Farm Mutual and they held
themselves out as an insurance broker and agent with the ability to procure and
place sufficient and appropriate insurance coverage for Plaintiff, but that
Auzat Defendants failed to offer, inform, provide, suggest, and use their
expertise and knowledge as a captive insurance agent by not providing Plaintiff
with all the property coverage.  (Id.,
¶¶39-40.)  
“California recognizes the general
rule that an agent or broker who intentionally or negligently fails to procure
insurance as requested by a client--either an insured or an applicant for
insurance--will be liable to the client in tort for the resulting damages.
[Citation.] Also, a breach of contract cause of action arises where the agent
or broker breaches an oral agreement to obtain insurance as requested by the
client.”  (AMCO
Ins. Co. v. All Solutions Ins. Agency, LLC (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 883, 890.)  In the prior
demurrer to the initial complaint, the Court stated that there may be a claim
for breach of contract against Auzat Defendants, but the allegations regarding
a contract to obtain insurance on behalf of Plaintiff—whether written or
oral—should be more fully alleged.  In
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges facts that the agreement to procure the requested
insurance policy was oral.  Plaintiff
also alleges facts that Auzat Defendants agreed to procure the requested
insurance policy, and such facts will be accepted as true at the pleading
stage.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff
has not adequately alleged what consideration existed in the formation of an
oral contract between Plaintiff and Auzat Defendants; however, as alleged in
the complaint, Auzat Defendants are the captive agents for State Farm Mutual and State
Farm General and the consideration Plaintiff paid for the services
was through the premiums he paid.  At
this time, the Court finds the allegations against Auzat Defendants sufficient
for a breach of contract claim.  The
demurrer to the 1st cause of action as alleged against Auzat
Defendants is overruled. 
Second, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged a claim against State Farm Mutual because
the FAC establishes that State
Farm Mutual satisfied its obligations under the automobile policy.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff had an
automobile policy with State
Farm Mutual which included $100,000 for underinsured motorist
claims and $15,000 in settlement funds regarding Delacruzgonzalez’s
policy limits was credited, such that State Farm Mutual
only had to pay $85,000 under the policy terms. 
(FAC, ¶¶22-25, Ex. A.)  Defendants
argue that while Plaintiff seeks additional funds from State Farm General,
State Farm Mutual satisfied its obligations under the policy.  Based on Exhibit A and the allegations of the
complaint, it appears that State Farm Mutual satisfied its obligations under
the automobile policy.  (FAC, Ex. A [SFM
Automobile Policy].)  The Umbrella Policy
is entered between Plaintiff and State Farm General,
which is a separate policy.  (FAC, Ex. B
[SFG Umbrella Policy].)  Thus, as
currently alleged and considering the policies attached to the FAC, Plaintiff
has not alleged sufficient facts to state a breach of contract claim against State Farm Mutual.
 In his opposition brief, Plaintiff
states: “Plaintiff agrees … that SFMIC should be dismissed from this
action).”  (Opp. at p.4.)  As such, the demurrer to the 1st cause of action as alleged against State Farm Mutual is sustained without leave to amend. 
Third, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged a claim against State Farm General because it was Auzat Defendants’ fault for not procuring the correct
insurance policy and State
Farm General complied with its obligations under the policy that
was issued.  Defendants argue that the
declarations page of the Umbrella Policy show that there is no umbrella
coverage in the amount of $2,000,000 for underinsured/uninsured motorist
coverage.  Indeed, the policy does not
include any showing of underinsured/uninsured motorist coverage.  (FAC, Ex. B.) 
Based on the policies attached to the FAC, SFG did not have an
obligation to cover Plaintiff pursuant to an underinsured/uninsured motorist
policy as it did not issue such a policy to Plaintiff.  However, the issue in the 1st
cause of action is not solely whether State Farm General satisfied its
obligations with the policy, but that State Farm General breached its (oral) obligations
with Auzat Defendants by failing to procure the correct insurance policy as
requested by Plaintiff in the first place and failing to pay benefits
thereunder.  (See FAC, ¶¶29, 36d.)  At this time, the Court will allow the
allegations to go forward as to State Farm General.  Whether Plaintiff can prove such an oral
agreement existed for Auzat Defendants and State Farm General to procure a particular
type of policy is better determined beyond the pleading stage upon the consideration
of evidence.  
The demurrer to
the 1st cause of action is overruled as alleged against Auzat
Defendants and State Farm General.  The
demurrer to the 1st cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend as alleged against State Farm Mutual. 

2.     
3rd cause of action for breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing (insurance bad faith)
“There is an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
in every contract that neither party will do anything which will injure the
right of the other to receive the benefits of the agreement.”  (Comunale v. Traders & General Ins. Co. (1958) 50
Cal.2d 654, 658.) “Without a contractual underpinning, there is no independent
claim for breach of the implied covenant.” 
(Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v.
Maryland Casualty Co. (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1586, 1599.)
Defendants demur to the 3rd
cause of action on the same grounds as argued with respect to the demurrer to
the 1st cause of action.  
In light of the ruling on the demurrer to
the 1st cause of action, the demurrer to the 3rd cause of
action is overruled as alleged against Auzat Defendants and State Farm
General.  The demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend as alleged against State
Farm Mutual.  
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants moves
to strike paragraphs 63, 66, and 68 in their entirety and the Prayer for Relief at No. 5
(page 26, lines 18-22).  In opposition, Plaintiff
incorporates his arguments from his opposition to the demurrer.  
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Defendants argue
that if the Court sustains the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action,
then the Court should grant the motion to strike.  (Mot. at p.4.)  They also argue that the allegations of the
FAC are not sufficient for punitive damages.
Paragraphs 63,
66, and 68 are alleged in connection with the 3rd cause of
action.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants acted with “reckless, willful or callous disregard for Plaintiff’s
rights and with malice, fraud or oppression toward Plaintiffs, thereby
entitling Plaintiff to an award of punitive damages….”  (FAC, ¶¶63, 68.)  Plaintiff alleges that in spite of his
demands for coverage under the Umbrella Policy, Defendants were never
forthcoming as to their position on coverage such that he is entitled to punitive
damages.  (Id., ¶66.)  The allegations are merely conclusory and
fail to rise to the level of showing that punitive damages are warranted
against Defendants.  At most, the
allegations rise to a showing of negligence, but not malicious, oppressive, or
fraudulent behavior on the part of Defendants. 
The motion to
strike the allegations for punitive damages is granted with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendants State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, State Farm General Insurance Co.,
Auzat Insurance Agency, Inc., and Doug W. Auzat’s demurrer to the 1st
and 3rd causes of action in the FAC is overruled as alleged against Defendants
State Farm General Insurance Co., Auzat Insurance Agency, Inc., and Doug W.
Auzat.  The demurrer to the 1st
and 3rd causes of action in the FAC is sustained without leave to
amend as alleged against Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company. 
Defendants’
motion to strike the allegations for punitive damages is granted with 20 days
leave to amend. 
Defendants
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
July 5, 2024                                                             ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 