

 
            On July
25, 2023, Plaintiffs Mi In Fashion, Inc., Hyun S. Lee, and, Young Mi Lee filed
this lawsuit alleging the causes of action for (i) failure to pay overtime
wage, (ii) failure to pay minimum wage, (iii) failure to pay commission (by
Plaintiff Pak only), (iv) fraud (by Plaintiff Pak only), (v) failure to provide
all mandated meal periods or to pay additional wages in lieu thereof, (vi)
failure to provide all mandated rest periods or to pay additional wages in lieu
thereof, (vii) failure to issue timely and accurate itemized wage statements,
(viii) failure to timely pay wages due at termination, and (ix) unfair business
practice in violation of California Business & Professions Code section
17200 et seq.
 
On December 20, 2023, Defendants Mi
in Fashion, Inc., Hyun S. Lee (aka Tommy Lee), and Young Mi Lee demurred to the
Complaint. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the demurrer. No reply was filed. 
 
            The
demurrer is overruled in part and sustained in part.  
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First
Cause of Action for Failure to Pay Overtime and Second Causes of Action for
Failure to Pay Minimum Wage:
 
            The first
cause of action for violation of Labor Code section 510 alleges that Defendants
failed to pay Plaintiffs’ respective overtime wages, and the second cause of
action for violation of Labor Code section 204 alleges that Defendants failed
to pay minimum wages. Both violations entitle Plaintiffs to relief under Labor
Code section 1194.
 
            Defendants
demur to the first and second causes of action on the grounds that the Complaint
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim. Specifically, the demurrer
argues that “[t]he plaintiffs did not state for what time period they claimed
to have not been paid the wages, so that the defendants cannot verify how much
minimum wage amount was for a certain time period because the minimum wages
changed over the years.” (Dem., 3:11-14.) 
 
However, as noted in the opposition,
Defendants cite no authority for their argument that the law requires that
these specifics must be pled to state a claim. Thus, the Complaint adequately
alleges that Plaintiffs worked for Defendants, worked overtime, and were not
paid overtime wages for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week. (Compl.,
¶¶ 11-13.) 
 
            These allegations
are sufficient for pleading purposes to state a claim for failure to pay
overtime wages and failure to pay minimum wages. (Lab. Code, § 1194; CACI 2702.)
The demurrer to the first and second causes of action is overruled. 
 
Third
Cause of Action for Failure to Pay Commission: 
 
            The third cause of action for
violation of Labor Code section 2751 alleges Defendants failed to pay
commission owed to Plaintiff Pak. 
 
            Labor Code
section 2751 provides that commission contracts between an “employer” and an
“employee” must be in writing and must “set forth the method by which the
commissions shall be computed and paid.” (Lab. Code, § 2751, subd. (a).) The
employer must give a signed copy of the contract to the employee and obtain a
signed receipt. (Lab. Code, § 2751, subd. (b).)
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges
Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiff Pak a commission based on 1.5% of the gross
sale of Defendant Mi in Fashion, Inc., in addition
to her monthly base salary of $5,000.00. (Compl. ¶ 31.) However, Defendants
never paid any of Plaintiff Pak’s commission during her employment. (Compl., ¶
35.)
 
            On
demurrer, Defendants argue that this cause of action fails to state whether the
alleged agreement to pay commission was verbal or written, fails to state
exactly how much was to be paid as commission and on what conditions, or how
much Plaintiff Pak claims she was entitled to in commissions. 
 
Again, Defendants’ demurrer cites no
legal authority requiring such allegations for pleading purposes. Thus, these allegations are sufficient to state claim on
demurrer. 

 
            However, as
noted below, to the extent that this claim is based on a Labor Code violation
and is sought against all Defendants, this claim is improperly alleged against
an individual Defendants. (Lab. Code, § 558.)
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled as to Defendant Mi in
Fashion, Inc. and sustained as to Defendants Hyun S. Lee and Young Mi Lee
(Individual Defendants). 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud 
 
            The fourth cause
of action alleges a claim for fraud based on Defendants’ promise to pay 1.5% of
the gross sale of CES to Plaintiff Pak as a part of wages for her employment.
(Compl., ¶ 40.) 
 
            The elements
of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud or induce
reliance; (4) actual reliance by the plaintiff; and (5) resulting damage. (Conroy
v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1255; Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 173; Civ. Code, § 1709.)
Further, fraud, unlike most claims in tort, requires that each element must be
pled with specificity. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59,
73.) That is,
generally, “[i]n California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
Importantly,
fraud requires that each element must be pled with specificity. (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) That is, generally, “[i]n
California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations
do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’
[Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
            This cause
of action is only alleged against Defendant Mi in Fashion, Inc. (Compl., ¶ 39.)
None of these allegations contain the level of specificity required for fraud.
Thus, the demurrer is sustained as to the fourth cause of action with leave to
amend.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Failure to
Provide Mandated Meal Periods and Sixth Causes of Action regarding Rest Periods:
 
            The fifth and sixth causes of action
for violations of Labor Code section 226.7 allege that Defendants failed to
provide meal and rest periods. 
 
            The
demurrer argues “The Complaint failed to state what time period or dates such
violations were committed, how such violations occurred, how much of premium
wages the plaintiffs claimed to be entitled to, and how much they would
acknowledge to have received.” (Dem., 4:1-3.) 
 
            Again, no
legal authority is cited by Defendants supporting this heightened specificity
for these particular causes of action. Thus, these allegations are sufficient
to state claim at the pleading stage. 
 
            The
demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is overruled. 
 
All Causes of Action alleged against
Individual Defendants: 
 
Individual
Defendants demur to all the causes of action on the
grounds that they are not an “employer” under the Industrial Welfare Commission
(IWC) wage order and thus cannot be liable in their individual capacity.
 
As preliminary
matter, this demurrer argument does not apply to the tort cause of action for
fraud or the ninth cause of action for the violations for Business and
Professions Code section 17200. 
 
Secondly, Individual
Defendants fail to acknowledge Labor Code sections 558 and 558.1.
 
Labor Code section
558.1 specifically permits individual liability on certain Labor Code violations.
Under California law, an “employer or other person acting on behalf of any
employer, who violates, or causes to be violated, any provision regulating
minimum wages or hours and days of work in any order of the Industrial Welfare
Commission, or violates, or causes to be violated, Sections
203, 226, 226.7, 1193.6, 1194, or 2802, may be held liable as the employer for such
violation.” (Lab. Code, § 558.1, subd. (a).) The law limits the
phrase “other person acting on behalf of an employer” to describing a natural
person who is an owner, director, officer, or managing agent of the
employer.” (Lab. Code, § 558.1, subd. (b).) Thus, only an
employer, owner, director, officer, or managing agent may be held liable for
violations of the wage orders or the identified provisions of the California
Labor Code. (Lab. Code, § 558.1, subd. (b).) The term “managing agent,” includes “only those
corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment
in their corporate decision making so that their decisions ultimately determine
corporate policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566-67.)
 
Here, the Labor
Code violations set forth in the first, second, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes
of action are expressly enumerated in Labor Code section 558.1. In contrast,
Labor Code section 558.1 does not identify the statutory violations at issue in
the third and eighth causes of action.[1]
 
Thus, the demurrer
to the third and eighth causes of action are sustained on this ground, and
otherwise overruled, as to Individual Defendants. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is to the Complaint is
overruled as to the first, second, fifth, sixth, and ninth causes of action. The
demurrer is sustained as to the fourth cause of action and sustained as to
Individual Defendants only as to the third and eighth causes of action. The
demurrer is otherwise overruled.  Plaintiffs
shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be served and filed on
or before March 28, 2024.


