  Case Number:  24TRCV01501    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JERRY
  LYLES, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01501




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOHN
  MCINTYRE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
6, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants John McIntyre,
The Le June Group, and JM Sunshine Group LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Jerry Lyles and Cassandra Wagoner
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint and for Award of Fees and Expenses
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers, late-filed opposition, and defendants’ objection.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED in part.  The first and second causes of action in the
complaint are STRICKEN.  The motion is
DENIED as to paras. 30, 31, 37, 48, 51, and 159.
            Defendants are awarded reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $2310. 
BACKGROUND
            On May 2, 2024, plaintiffs Jerry
Lyles and Cassandra Wagoner filed a complaint against John McIntyre, The Le
June Group, and JM Sunshine Group LLC for (1) retaliatory eviction, (2)
malicious prosecution, (3) elder abuse, (4) violation of Civil Code §789.3, (5)
violation of Civil Code §1946.2, (6) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment,
(7) breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (8) constructive eviction,
(9) assault, (10) battery, (11) IIED, (12) NIED, and (13) injunctive relief.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under CCP §425.16(b), “(1) A cause
of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance
of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States
Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue
shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines
that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim.  (2)
In making its determination, the court shall consider the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability
or defense is based.”
“The anti-SLAPP procedures are
designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the
undue burden of frivolous litigation.”  Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th
376, 393.  “The anti-SLAPP statute does
not insulate defendants from any
liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or
speech.  It only provides a procedure for
weeding out, at an early stage, meritless
claims arising from protected activity.” 
Id. at 384.  “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves
two steps.  First, the defendant must
establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section
425.16.  If the defendant makes the
required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate merit of
the claim by establishing a probability of success.”  Id.
(citation omitted).  The California
Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like
procedure.’  The court does not weigh
evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. 
Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally
sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment.  It accepts the
plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.  ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit
may proceed.’”  Id. at 384-85 (citations omitted). 

“At the first step, the moving
defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them.  When relief is sought based on allegations of
both protected and unprotected activity, the unprotected activity is
disregarded at this stage.  If the court
determines that relief is sought based on allegations arising from activity
protected by the statute, the second step is reached.  There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally
sufficient and factually substantiated.” 
Id. at 396.
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to §425.16, defendants request
that the Court strike the following: 
paras. 30, 31, 37, 48, 51, first cause of action for retaliatory
eviction, second cause of action for malicious prosecution, and para. 159.
In ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion,
the trial court engages in a two-step process. 
“First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity.  The moving defendant’s burden
is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were
taken ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue,’ as defined in the statute.  If
the court finds such a showing has been made, it then determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. . . . Only
when a defendant shows that a cause of action is based on protected conduct and
the plaintiff fails to show a likelihood of success on that claim is it subject
to dismissal.”  Wong v. Jing
(2010) 189 Cal. App. 4th 1354, 1360 (citation omitted).
            The complaint alleges that plaintiffs
signed a lease and moved into their residence at 16531 S. Denver Avenue, #2,
Gardena on May 19, 2019.  Complaint, ¶14.  Throughout their tenancy, plaintiffs’ rent
has been subsidized by the Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH)
Program.  Id., ¶15.  From May 19, 2019 to January 3, 2024,
plaintiffs peacefully lived in their residence, paid their rent on time, and
had a great relationship with their neighbors at the subject property.  Id., ¶16. 
On January 3, 2024, plaintiffs contacted the LA Department of Housing to
notify them that they had a faulty electrical box that could potentially become
dangerous.  Id., ¶17.  On January 4, 2024, when Cassadra pulled into
the driveway of the property, a man that Cassandra had never seen before,
dressed in a motorcycle vest with patches to signify what motorcycle gang or
club he is a member, walked up to her vehicle and yelled, “get your
motherfucking shit out of the laundry room.” 
Id., ¶18.  In response, Cassandra
asked, “who are you?” and the man said, “don’t worry about it, just get your
shit out of the laundry room.”  Appalled
and fearful of her safety, she got out of her vehicle, went into the residence,
and informed Jerry about what just transpired. 
Id., ¶19.
            The complaint further alleges that
while Cassandra was telling Jerry what transpired, there was a knock on their
door.  When Cassandra opened the door,
she encountered defendant John McIntyre who identified himself as the new owner
of the subject property and his agent Rhonda Willis, who identified herself as
the new manager.  John informed Cassandra
that he needed plaintiffs to sign some documents.  Id., ¶20. 
Plaintiffs had never received notice that the property was being sold or
had been sold.  Id., ¶21.  Jerry stated to Rhonda that he would have to
take a look over the document before he signed it.  As he turned his back to return to his
residence and look at the papers, Rhonda suddenly and unexpectedly rushed from
behind and yelled, “give me back them papers.,” and knocked Jerry to the ground
while attempting to snatch the documents from him.  Id., ¶22. 
Cassandra called the police.  Id.,
¶23.  After the police left, John yelled
out to Cassandra from outside to come and get her clothes out of the laundry
room.  He removed her clothes, mixed it
with the neighbor’s clothes, and dumped them at the front door of her
residence.  Id., ¶24.  Shortly after, plaintiffs observed John
changing the lock to the laundry room. As of the time that the complaint was
filed, John still had not provided plaintiffs with a key to the laundry
room.  Id., ¶25.
            The complaint further alleges that
on January 7, 2024, plaintiffs attempted to pay their rent to defendants on the
Zelle account that defendants provided them. 
Defendants subsequently cancelled that transaction.  Id., ¶29. 
On January 8, 2024, defendants posted a three-day notice to quit
premises, falsely accusing plaintiffs of blocking the driveway preventing
defendants’ workers from doing their job on January 3, 2024.  Id., ¶30. 
The notice also falsely accused plaintiffs of physically assaulting
defendants’ agent on January 4 and falsely accusing Jerry of waving a hammer at
defendants and their agents in a threatening manner.  Id., ¶31. 
On January 13, 2024, defendants called LAPD officers and falsely accused
Jerry of pulling a gun on him.  Jerry was
subsequently arrested because he would not allow officers to search his home
without a search warrant.  The District
Attorney’s office declined to file charges against him.  Id., ¶33. 
On January 14, 2024, defendants placed a Ring camera directly in front
of their residence to monitor plaintiffs’ comings and goings.  Id., ¶34. 
On January 17, 2024, defendants shut off the hot water to their
residence for two days, which prompted plaintiffs to file a complaint with the
LA Department of Housing.  Id., ¶35.  On that same day, Jerry filed a Request for a
Civil Harassment Restraining Order against John due to the ongoing
harassment.  Id., ¶36.  On January 18, 2024, defendants filed another
three-day notice to quit premises.  In
that notice, they repeated the same false allegations about incidents that did
not occur on January 4 and 6.  Id., ¶37.  Defendants included the false allegation that
Jerry pulled a gun on John, an allegation that the District Attorney’s office
declined to file charges.  Id., ¶38.  
            The complaint further alleges that
defendants continued terrorizing plaintiffs by calling parking enforcement to
issue tickets for parking in locations that they had been accustomed to parking
for the previous four years.  Id., ¶39.  In the beginning of February 2024, plaintiffs
had to travel to Texas due to a death in the family.  While they were gone, defendants falsely
informed the usual mail carrier that plaintiffs no longer lived at their
residence, and that the mail could no longer be delivered there.  Id., ¶40. 
On February 16, 2024, plaintiffs’ son went to the property to check in
on plaintiffs’ residence.  When he
arrived, he was shocked to see that plaintiffs’ garage door had been removed,
exposing plaintiffs’ residence and personal items stored inside and in the
garage to potential thieves as well as the elements during a rainstorm.  Id., ¶41. 
Plaintiffs returned to their residence on February 26, 2024.  They called a garage door installation
company to replace their door.  Id., ¶43.  When the garage door installation company
arrived and their workers were about to install a new garage door, John
immediately approached them and threatened to have them arrested for
trespassing.  They left.  Id., ¶44. 
On February 28, 2024, plaintiffs contacted another garage door
installation company.  When the company
arrived, John and one of his agents approached the workers.  LAPD officers were called onto the
scene.  The officers informed John that
his action of removing the garage door was illegal and informed the garage door
employees that they could install the new garage door.  Id., ¶45. 
One of John’s agents threw a stack of papers at Cassandra and said,
“you’ve been served.”  Id., ¶46.  She discovered that on January 29, 2024, defendant
JM filed an unlawful detainer against plaintiffs based on the three-day notice
dated January 18, 2024 “that was filled with lies.”  Id., ¶47. 
Cassandra also saw that she was being served with a Request for a Civil
Harassment Restraining Order filed by John on February 5, 2024, and that the
hearing had been conducted on February 27. 
Plaintiffs later learned that John also filed one against Jerry on
February 5, but that he was never served. 
Id., ¶48.  Plaintiffs are of the
belief that because their rent is subsidized by VASH, and their rent is below
market value, defendants are trying to evict them based on false pretenses in
order to circumvent the Tenant Protection Act of 2019 and avoid paying them
relocation fees.  Id., ¶49.
            The first cause of action for
retaliatory eviction alleges that plaintiffs hold a leasehold interest in and
have been tenants of the subject property before and while defendants have
owned and/or managed the property.  Id., ¶56.  Civil Code §1942.5 prohibits a landlord from
raising tenants’ rent or causing the tenants to quit the premises voluntarily
within 180 days after the tenants exercise their rights under the relevant
chapter of the Civil Code.  Id., ¶57.  The 180 days would run from January 17, 2024,
the date on which plaintiffs filed a Tenant Complaint Form with the Los Angeles
Housing Department due to defendants shutting off their hot water and locking
them out of the laundry room.  In the
alternative, the 180 days would run from February 21, 2024, seven days before
defendants served plaintiffs with the unlawful detainer, which is the date that
the Los Angeles Housing gave defendants a notice of violation and ordered them
to make repairs.  Id., ¶58.  
            The second cause of action for
malicious prosecution alleges that defendants’ false claims caused law
enforcement to arrest Jerry and charge him with assault with a deadly
weapon.  Id., ¶64.  The District Attorney’s Office were able to
determine that defendants were not truthful and therefore, they declined to
file charges against Jerry.  Id., ¶65.  No reasonable person in defendants’
circumstances would have believed that there were grounds for causing plaintiff
to be arrested.  Id., ¶66.  It is also plaintiffs’ belief that defendants
acted primarily for a purpose other than to bring plaintiff to justice, which
in this case, was to circumvent The Tenant Protection Act of 2019 in order to file
a three-day notice to quit premises in order to file an unlawful detainer and
evict them.  Id., ¶67.  Plaintiffs were harmed by Jerry being
arrested for no reason and having to face the prospect of being incarcerated
due to defendants false claims.  Id.,
¶68.  
 
Step One:  Conduct in furtherance of right of
petition or free speech
            CCP §425.16(e) states, in relevant
part:  “As used in this section, ‘act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United
States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’
includes:  (1) any written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” 
“The phrase ‘arising from’ . . .
has been interpreted to mean that ‘the act underlying the plaintiff’s cause’ or
‘the act which forms the basis for the plaintiff’s cause of action’ must have
been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’”  Schwarzburd
v. Kensington Police Protection & Community Services Dist. Bd.  (2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 1345,
1350 (citation omitted).  “What nexus
must a defendant show between a challenged claim and the defendant’s protected
activity for the claim to be struck?  . .
. [A] claim is not subject to a motion to strike simply because it contests an
action or decision that was arrived at following speech or petitioning
activity, or that was thereafter communicated by means of speech or petitioning
activity.  Rather, a claim may be struck
only if the speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of,
and not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for
which liability is asserted.”  Park v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 1057, 1060 (considering the
relationship a defendant must show between a plaintiff’s claim and the sorts of
speech on public matters the Legislature intended to protect).  “’[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after
protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity
for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.’ 
( . . . see City of Cotati [v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69], at p. 78 [suit may be in
“response to, or in retaliation for,’ protected activity without necessarily
arising from it].)  Instead, the focus is
on determining what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or
her asserted liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech
or petitioning.’  ‘The only means
specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy the
[arising from] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured
falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e) . . .
.’  In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP
motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what
actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis
for liability.”  Id. 
            Defendants argue that the first and
second causes of action arise out of a right to petition—the prosecution of a
prior unlawful detainer action. 
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
their claims are based on defendants’ wrongful acts and not their right to
petition.  Plaintiffs assert that the
retaliatory cause of action is based on defendants attempting to evict them
after plaintiffs made complaints about uninhabitable conditions and before
plaintiffs served them with an unlawful detainer complaint, including by
serving plaintiffs with three-day notices based on false allegations.  Further, plaintiffs contend, the “substance”
of the cause of action for malicious prosecution is based on defendants calling
law enforcement and making a false claim that plaintiff Lyles threatened them
with a handgun, which led to his arrest, activity which is wrongful and
therefore is not “protected.”  
            The Court rules as follows as to the
first prong:  “The prosecution of an
unlawful detainer action indisputably is protected activity within the meaning
of section 425.16.”  Feldman v. 1100
Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1467, 1479 (citation
omitted).  “Service of the three-day
notice to quit in this case was also protected activity within the meaning of
section 425.16.”  Id. (citation
omitted).  
“Although an unlawful detainer
action itself is protected activity under section 425.16, terminating a lease
is not.  A complaint arising out of or
based on the dispute or conduct underlying the unlawful detainer action is not
subject to a special motion to strike.  ‘[T]he
mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not
mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute.’  When, as in this case, the
challenged lawsuit follows service of a three-day notice to quit, ‘[t]he
pivotal distinction’ is whether an actual or contemplated unlawful detainer
action by a landlord (unquestionably a protected petitioning activity) merely
‘preceded’ or ‘triggered’ the tenant's lawsuit, or whether it was instead the
‘basis’ or ‘cause’ of that suit.”  Copenbarger
v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th
1237, 1245 (citations and internal quotations omitted).  See, e.g., Clark v. Mazgani
(2009) 170 Cal. App. 4th 1281, 1290 where although the unlawful
detainer action triggered the tenant’s lawsuit, that lawsuit was based on
claims the landlord fraudulently invoked the family occupancy exemption of the
rent control ordinance and failed to fulfill her obligations under that
ordinance.
“We are mindful that the lines
drawn in these cases are fine ones.  However,
we are reminded by our Supreme Court . . . , that the ‘focus’ of the statute ‘is
not the form of plaintiff's cause of action but, rather, the defendant's
activity that gives rise to his or her asserted liability . . . .’”  Feldman, supra, at 1483 (citations
omitted).  
As to the first cause of action for
retaliation, plaintiffs are alleging that defendants are liable because they served
plaintiffs with three-day notices to quit (based on “false claims”) in an
attempt to evict them within 180 days after plaintiffs filed a complaint with
the Los Angeles Housing Department.  The three-day
notices are the cause or basis of this cause of action, and it is the
challenged activity.  Service of a
three-day notice is protected activity. 
See Feldman, supra.
As to the second cause of action
for malicious prosecution, plaintiffs allege that defendants are liable for
making a false claim to law enforcement that Jerry had pointed a gun at
defendant McIntyre and that he was arrested and that such claim was also made
on the three-day notice to quit, which formed the basis of the unlawful
detainer action.  Jarrow Formulas,
Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 735 states that “[b]y definition, a
malicious prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by
filing a lawsuit. . . . [a]ccordingly, every Court of Appeal that has addressed
the question has concluded that malicious prosecution causes of action fall
within the purview of the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Citations omitted.)  Further, communications and complaints to
police fall within the anti-SLAPP Statute. 
See Comstock v. Aber (2012) 212 Cal. App. 4th 931, 941-42 (“The
law is that communications to the police are within SLAPP.”). Thus, the
three-day notices and complaint to the police are covered under CCP
§425.16(e)(1) and/or (e)(2).  
Accordingly, the Court finds that
defendants have met their burden under the first prong that plaintiff’s first
and second causes of action fall under CCP §425.16(e).  As to the individual paragraphs (as to
three-day notices and civil restraining orders), they are allowed as context
and background and are not “claims” as contemplated by CCP §425.16.
 
            Step
Two:  Plaintiff’s Responding Burden

            “To establish a probability of
prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  For purposes of this inquiry,
the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not
weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence,
it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.”  Hawran v.
Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74. 
However, the court must accept as true the evidence favorable to
plaintiff.  Soukup v. Law Offices of
Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291. 
Plaintiff need only establish that the claim has minimal merit.  Id.  

Defendants argue that plaintiffs
cannot meet their burden based on the litigation privilege.  The Court notes that the litigation privilege
does not apply to either cause of action. 
There is an exception to the litigation privilege for retaliatory
eviction cases under Civil Code §1942.5; if it were otherwise, the litigation
privilege would effectively immunize the very conduct that the statute
prohibits.  Winslett v. 1811 27th
Avenue, LLC (2018) 26 Cal. App. 5th 239, 254.  Further, under Civil Code §47(b), “(5) This
subdivision does not make privileged any communication between a person and a
law enforcement agency in which the person makes a false report that another
person has committed, or is in the act of committing, a criminal act or is
engaged in an activity requiring law enforcement intervention, knowing that the
report is false, or with reckless disregard for the truth or falsity of the
report.”
 
            First cause of action for
retaliatory eviction 
            In the opposition, plaintiffs assert
that they have demonstrated a reasonable probability of prevailing, citing only
to their complaint.  Plaintiffs fail to
present any admissible evidence.  There are
no declaration.  See also defendants’
evidentiary objections, which the Court SUSTAINS.
            The Court finds that plaintiffs have
not met their burden of showing a reasonable probability of prevailing under
the first cause of action.
 
            Second cause of action for
malicious prosecution
The elements of a claim for
malicious prosecution include (1) a prior action commenced by or at direction
of defendant, (2) that lacked probable cause, (3) was initiated with malice,
and (4) resulted in a termination of the action in plaintiff’s favor.  Lanz v. Goldstone (2015) 243 Cal. App.
4th 441, 458. 
            Defendants argues that the unlawful
detainer action and restraining order were brought with probable cause and that
neither of the proceedings terminated in plaintiffs’ favor.
            In opposition, plaintiffs contend
that the basis for the cause of action is the false police report. 
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for malicious prosecution
because filing a false police report is not a “prior action commenced by
defendants” and there was no proceeding. 
Further, “[s]imply establishing that an action was dismissed is
insufficient to support a malicious prosecution claim.”  Eells v. Rosenblum (1995) 36 Cal. App.
4th 1848, 1855.  Also, plaintiffs have
not shown a probability of prevailing as they do not provide any evidence that
defendants lacked probable cause.  Also,
of note, the unlawful detainer action was pursued to a legal termination
favorable to defendants.
            The motion is thus GRANTED as to the
first and second causes of action. 
 
            Attorney’s Fees
Under CCP §425.16(c), “In any
action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special motion
to strike shall be entitled to recover his or her attorney’s fees and costs.”
 “[B]y its terms, CCP section
425.16 permits the use of the so-called lodestar adjustment method.”  Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal. 4th 1122, 1131.  The lodestar figure is
calculated by multiplying the amount of attorney time reasonable spent with the
hourly prevailing rate for private attorneys in the local community conducting
noncontingent litigation of the same type.  Id. at 1122.
Defendants request $3210 ($450/hr.
x 7.5 hrs., $60 filing fee) in attorney’s fees and costs.  In light of the ruling on the motion,
defendants are the prevailing party and entitled to reasonable attorney fees
and costs.  The Court finds that $2310
($450/hr. x 5 hrs., $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED in part.  The first and second causes of action in the
complaint are STRICKEN.  The motion is
DENIED as to paras. 30, 31, 37, 48, 51, and 159.
            Defendants are awarded reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $2310.
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.