  Case Number:  20STCV17540    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
23, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Irma Gonzalez v. Martini Associates Development, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV17540
                                                 





















 
MOTION
TO VACATE ORDER OF DISMISSAL


 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Irma Gonzalez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff, Irma Gonzalez commenced this wage and hour suit against
her employer, Defendant Martini Associates Development LLC d/b/a Los Angeles
Adventurer All-Suite Hotel (“Martini Associates”), alleging various Labor Code
violations, and, in relevant part, Private Attorney General Act (PAGA)
claims.  The operative pleading is the
First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
            On January
21, 2021, Plaintiff added Frank Martini as a defendant in this action by way of
Doe amendment. 
 
            On April 25,
2022, Martini Associates and Frank Martini (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a
demurrer to the FAC.
 
            On October
7, 2022, before the hearing on the demurrer, the court granted Defendants’
Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.  
 
            On May 3,
2023, Plaintiff moved to strike Martini Associates’ demurrer for failure to
retain new legal counsel.  The court
granted the motion on July 5, 2023.  The
court ordered Martini Associates’ demurrer as stricken and entered default
against Martini Associates.
 
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Default Judgment
package which included a Request for Dismissal without prejudice of her PAGA
cause of action.  
 
On April 19, 2024, the clerk of the court entered default against
Defendant Frank Martini. 
Plaintiff now moves for an order vacating the dismissal of
her PAGA claim.[1]
 
The Motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) provides that a court may “relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”  In addition, a court must vacate a default or
dismissal when a motion for relief under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed
timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)   
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than six months had elapsed from the
entry of default, and hence relief under section 473 was unavailable”]; People
v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for
relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months”].)   
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks relief to vacate the dismissal order of her
PAGA claim on the following grounds: (1) Plaintiff timely filed this motion
within 6 months of the December 5, 2023 order dismissing her PAGA claim, and (2)
Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a default judgment package to the Court which
inadvertently included a request for dismissal of the PAGA cause of action
without prejudice.  (Afgani Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  For these reasons, Plaintiff argues she is
entitled to mandatory relief.  
 
A court must vacate a default or
dismissal when a motion for relief under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed
timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)   
 
The court finds that Plaintiff is
entitled to mandatory relief.  As
Defendants are in default, there is no opposition directing a different result.

 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to vacate is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s PAGA cause of action is
reinstated.  
 
Having reinstated Plaintiff’s PAGA cause of action, the court
directs Plaintiff to re-serve Defendants with the summons and complaint.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Dated:   May 23, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 


