 Case Number:  21STCV24940    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
23, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  June 24, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Gus
Murra v. LAPRAAC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV24940
 





















 
MOTIONS
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, 
IN
THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Los Angeles 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiffs Gus Murra, Jacob Palacios, Victor
Brown, Jerry D. Fritz, Louie Gener[1]
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This is a consolidated action
involving allegations that the City of Los Angles (City) and the Los Angeles
Police Department (LAPD) by and through their ostensible agent, Los Angeles
Police Revolver and Athletic Club (LAPRAAC), negligently purchased and sold
firearms and negligently supervised LAPRAAC’s employees who purchased and sold firearms.
Plaintiffs Gus Murra (Murra), Jacob Palacios (Palacios), Victor Brown (Brown),
Jerry D. Fritz (Fritz), and Louie Gener (Gener) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”),
were sworn officers of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD).  LAPRAAC is a private entity that sells
firearms and police equipment, among other items.  LAPRAAC operates a gun store at the LAPD
Police Academy campus located at 1880 North Academy Drive, Los Angeles, CA
90012.  LAPRAAC is a federally licensed
firearms dealer.  The City and LAPD are
not.
 
Between 2018 and 2020, each
Plaintiff separately purchased firearms from LAPRAAC in private sales
transactions.  During that same time period,
the manager of LAPRAAC’s gun store was allegedly trafficking in stolen weapons
and/or stealing guns from LAPRAAC’s inventory and selling them on the side.  In 2020, LAPD’s Commercial Crimes Division,
Burglary Section (CCD) contacted each Plaintiff regarding their respective
firearms purchases from LAPRAAC.  CCD
informed each Plaintiff that the firearm they purchased from LAPRAAC had been
reported stolen.  Criminal investigations
ensued.  
 
During the pendency of the criminal
investigation, Murra, Palacios, and Gener were indefinitely stripped of their
LAPD badges and placed on residential assignment; Brown was reassigned to
another department with work restrictions. 
All Plaintiffs suffered economic damages, emotional distress, and
reputational harm. 
 
Plaintiffs allege LAPRAAC acted
negligently in its oversight of its firearms sales. As relevant here, Plaintiffs
allege LAPRAAC was the ostensible agent of the City and the LAPD.[2]  And if so, the City would be liable for the
negligent acts of its agent (actual or ostensible) and its employees.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Complaints
 
On July 7, 2021, Murra filed a Complaint
against LAPRAAC, the City, and LAPD. 
Murra’s Complaint is the lead case. 
On August 16, 2021, Brown, Fritz, and Gener each filed a Complaint
against Defendants.  Murra, Brown, Fritz,
and Gener’s respective complaints each allege three causes of action: (1)
Negligence, (2) Negligence (Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 820), and (3) Negligent
Supervision, Hiring, or Retention (Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 820).  Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for
Negligence is asserted against LAPRAAC. As relevant here, Plaintiffs’ Second
and Third Causes of Action are asserted against the City and LAPD.  
 
Palacios filed his Complaint
against Defendants on August 16, 2021. 
Palacios’s First Amended Complaint (FAC), filed on September 8, 2022, is
his operative pleading.  The FAC asserts the
same first three causes of action and adds a fourth cause of action against the
City for Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5.[3] 
 
Motions for Summary Judgment
 
Before the Court are five motions
filed by the City: four motions for summary judgment against Murra, Brown,
Fritz and Gener, and a fifth motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication against Palacios’s FAC.  Because Plaintiffs brings identical
negligence and negligent supervision, hiring, or retention claims against the Defendants,
and all five motions turn on the issue whether LAPRAAC was the agent or
ostensible agent of the City or LAPD with respect to LAPRAAC’s firearms sale
and transactions, the court will address the arguments together.  
 
III.      LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            When reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must
be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking
summary judgment “bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)
 A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891.)¿ The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            “Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion
by showing one or more triable issues of material fact exist as to the
challenged element. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)¿ 
 
            The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear
in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants
conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or
demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
IV.       JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            The
City requests judicial notice of the following documents: (1) Murra, Brown,
Fritz and Gener’s Complaints, (2) Palacios’s FAC, and (3) the Permit Agreement between
LAPRAAC and the City for the Los Angeles Police Academy at 1880 North Academy
Drive, Los Angeles, California 90012. 
The unopposed requests are GRANTED. 
(Evid. Code, § 452,
subds. (b), (d)(1), (h).) 
 
V.        EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The
City submits 8 objections to portions of the Declaration of Gus Murra, 20
objections to portions of the Declaration of Loren Nizinski, 4 objections to portions
of the Declaration of Victor Brown, 15 objections to portions of the
Declaration of Jerry Fritz, 13 objections to portions of the Declaration of Louie
Gener, 70 objections to portions of the Declaration of Jacob Palacios and
attachments thereto, 8 objections to portions of the Declaration of Lou Vince, and
8 objections to portions of the Declaration of Stacey Vince.  
 
The court declines to rule on these
objections because they are not relevant to the disposition of this
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
 
VI.       DISCUSSION
 
            Negligence-Based
Claims
 
Plaintiffs seek to hold Defendants liable
for LAPRAAC’s negligent conduct.  The
parties agree LAPRAAC was not Defendants’ actual agent.  The issue is whether LAPRAAC was the City’s
or the LAPD’s ostensible agent, and, more narrowly, whether LAPRAAC was the
City’s or the LAPD’s ostensible agent for the sale of firearms.  
 
1. 
Legal Principles Re: Ostensible Authority.
 

            To
establish ostensible agency, a plaintiff must show (1) that the defendant
intentionally or carelessly created the impression of agency; (2) that
plaintiff reasonably believed such agency; and (3) that plaintiff was harmed
because he or she reasonably relied on the belief.  (CACI No. 3709; Civ. Code § 2300; Associated
Creditors’ Agency v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 374, 399 [“There are three
requirements necessary before recovery may be had against a principal for the
act of an ostensible agent. The person dealing with the agent must do so with
belief in the agent's authority and this belief must be a reasonable one; such
belief must be generated by some act or neglect of the principal sought to be
charged; and the third person in relying on the agent’s apparent authority must
not be guilty of negligence.”].)  
            “Ostensible agency cannot be
established by the representations or conduct of the purported agent; the
statements or acts of the principal must be such as to cause the belief the
agency exists.”  (American Way
Cellular, Inc. v. Travelers Property Casualty Co. of America (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 1040, 1053 (American Way).) 
“Ostensible agency is based on appearances and turns on whether the
[sic] ‘the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a third
person to believe another to be his agent’ even though the third person is not
actually an agent. [¶] … Because a principal’s liability for the acts of an
ostensible agent rests on the notion that the principal should be estopped from
creating the false impression of agency, the appearance of agency ‘must be
based on the acts or declarations of the principal and not solely upon the
agent’s conduct.’¿”  (Pereda v. Atos
Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 759, 768 (Pereda).) “[O]stensible
authority arises as a result of conduct of the principal which causes the third party reasonably to
believe that the agent possesses the authority to act on the principal's
behalf. Ostensible authority may be established by proof that the principal
approved prior similar acts of the agent. [W]here the principal knows that the
agent holds himself out as clothed with certain authority, and remains silent,
such conduct on the part of the principal may give rise to liability.” (Chicago Title Ins. Co. v. AMZ Ins. Services, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 401,
426–427 (cleaned up).) 
 
                “Although the broader question of whether one entity is the
ostensible agent of another is typically a question of fact for the jury, it
may be decided as a matter of law on summary judgment where neither the
evidence nor inferences are in conflict. The narrower question of whether a
plaintiff's belief is reasonable is a question of law.”  (Pereda, supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at
p. 771 (cleaned up).) 
 
            “An agent's authority may be proved
by circumstantial evidence.  The burden
of proving ostensible agency is upon the party asserting that relationship.” (Ermoian v. Desert Hospital
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 475, 502–503 (Ermoian).) 
 
            2. 
Application 
 
Defendants argue LAPRAAC is not its
ostensible agent.  In support, the City submits
evidence to establish the following: LAPRAAC is a separate entity (City’s
Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) 22, 26) [4]; LAPRAAC’s
gun store is located on LAPRAAC property, and is wholly owned, operated and
staffed by LAPRAAC (UMF 13, 15); with respect to the LAPRAAC gun store which is
the subject of this lawsuit, including the sale of guns, LAPRAAC is not an
agent of the City (UMF 18); LAPRAAC is not authorized by the City to contract
for the City, nor is it authorized to do any acts for the City with respect to
the gun store (UMF 24, 25); the City is not involved in LAPRAAC’s operations in
any way (UMF 26); and each Plaintiff admitted in responses to the City’s
Request for Admission that there are no documents pertaining to the purchase of
the subject firearms which identifies the City as the seller.  (UMF 23 (Murra); UMF 23 (Brown); UMF 40
(Palacios); UMF 40 (Fritz); UMF 33 (Gener).)  In short, the City shows LAPRAAC and the City
are separate entities, the City plays no role in LAPRAAC’s operations, and
LAPRAAC did not have authority to act as the City’s agent, ostensible or
otherwise.  Because it is Plaintiffs
burden to demonstrate an ostensible agency relationship, Defendants point out
to the lack of any statements or conduct by the LAPD that give rise to the
reasonable belief that LAPRAAC had the authority to buy and sell weapons as LAPD’s
agent.  
 
Defendants demonstrate they did not
intentionally or carelessly create the impression LAPRAAC was their agent for
the sale of firearms.  Defendants meet their
initial burden to show there is no ostensible agency relationship giving rising
to liability.
 
The burden shifts.  In opposition, Plaintiffs point to the
following evidence: [5]  
 
·        
LAPRAAC’s gun store is located on
the City’s and LAPD’s training academy campus where the LAPD and LAPRAAC share
the main administration building. (Additional Material Facts (AMF) 3.) 
·        
LAPRAAC and the City have a Permit
Agreement which authorizes LAAPRAC to sell LAPD trademarked items.  (AMF 8.) 
·        
The LAPRAAC gun store is filled with
the LAPD badge and logos.  (AMF 10.) 
·        
99% of LAPRAAC members are either
active or retired sworn LAPD officers. (AMF 13.) 
·        
LAPRAAC Board members are depicted
on the LAPRAAC website wearing their LAPD uniforms. (AMF 14.)
·        
The City lists LAPRAAC’s telephone
number in the LAPD telephone directory. (AMF 15.) 
·        
LAPD presented LAPRAAC as a trusted
source for which Plaintiff and other officers could purchase all LAPD-related necessities.
 (AMF 19.)
·        
LAPD presented LAPRAAC as the
subject matter experts for the Department. 
On one occasion, after a new red dot was added to a firearm, LAPD told
their officers to go to LAPRAAC to determine which new variation of red dot
worked best for them.  (AMF 21.)
·        
To
purchase firearms, ammunition, and other law enforcement gear and equipment
from the LAPRAAC gun store, LAPRAAC required LAPD officers to provide their
individualized LAPD issued serial number to complete the purchases. (AMF 22.)
·        
During recruit orientation, the LAPD
invited LAPRAAC to attend and measure the recruits for uniforms, order
personalized name plates, and other gear needed be a recruit and police officer.
 (AMF 23.) 
·        
The LAPD training and command staff instructed
recruits, including Murra, to get all the uniforms and equipment that was
required from LAPRAAC because LAPRAAC had everything the recruits needed. (AMF
24.)
·        
LAPD payroll personnel appeared at
recruit orientation and had the recruits fill out membership documents for
LAPRAAC and to direct the recruits in authorizing LAPRAAC fees to be directly
deducted from the recruits’ paychecks. (AMF 25.)
·        
LAPD did not offer their recruits
any other options to purchase their uniform or gear other than LAPRAAC. (AMF 26.)
·        
During Murra’s time at the Academy,
all his training took place across the Academy grounds, which the LAPD shares
with LAPRAAC.  Murra’s LAPD badge
ceremony was held in LAPRAAC’s rock garden in 2007. (AMF 27.)
·        
LAPRAAC’s personnel would regularly
walk in and out of the different Academy buildings like they were a part of the
Department. The LAPRAAC personnel traversed the same academy hallways as LAPD
personnel with unrestricted access and interacted with LAPD personnel daily.
(AMF 28.)
·        
While in the LAPD academy, recruits
would “stand clear” anytime LAPD, City personnel, or LAPRAAC personnel passed
by the recruits in the halls of the academy. (AMF 30.)
·        
LAPRAAC would sponsor sporting
events and sporting teams, and Department employees could be considered on-duty
while playing at these LAPRAAC sponsored sporting events.  (AMF 31.)
·        
The Department and the City allow
LAPRAAC to post pamphlets on bulletin boards throughout the Department and in
specified rollcall rooms within the Department to the exclusion of other
vendors.  (AMF 32.)
·        
Sometime between 2016 and 2018,
Chief Malinowski and Chief Beck, authorized LAPRAAC to have an impromptu market
to sell equipment to LAPD officers. This market, which took place every few
months, was set up in the basement level of police headquarters. During that
time, the City and the Department never authorized any other vendors to set up
a market in the basement of police headquarters. (AMF 33.)
 
This evidence, Plaintiffs contend, points
to a lack of differentiation between LAPD and LAPRAAC such that Defendants intentionally
or carelessly created the impression LAPRAAC was the ostensible agent of LAPD
and/or the City, that Plaintiffs’ belief in the agency relationship was
reasonable, and they reasonably relied upon that belief.    
 
In reply, the City sharpens the inquiry.  The City argues the question is not whether LAPRAAC,
for example, may have been an ostensible agent to sell LAPD shirts, but rather specifically
for this case, whether LAPRAAC was the City or LAPD’s ostensible agent to
sell  firearms.  After all, Plaintiffs’ negligence claims involve
LAPRAAC’s failures with respect to the way it handled firearm sales.  Given this focus, the City challenges
the sufficiency of Plaintiffs’ evidence and the reasonableness of the
Plaintiffs’ beliefs.  The City argues none
of the foregoing facts demonstrates a principal (LAPD or the City) made any
statement representing that LAPRAAC could sell firearms on their behalf or
carelessly created an impression that would lead one to reasonably believe LAPRAAC
had the ostensible authority to sell firearms for the City or the LAPD. 
The City’s point is well taken.  One place to begin is the beginning.  Plaintiffs bear the burden to demonstrate
ostensible agency.  Plaintiffs do not present
any evidence that LAPD or the City are licensed gun dealers, let alone in the
business of selling firearms or overseeing employees in the sale of
firearms.  Absent a license to sell
firearms, LAPD and the City cannot sell firearms.  Plaintiffs do not present any evidence
showing otherwise. Plaintiffs do not present any evidence that representatives
of LAPD or the City told anyone, including the Plaintiffs, that LAPRAAC sold
firearms pursuant to LAPD’s or the City’s gun license.  An authorized or ostensible agent cannot act
beyond the scope of its agency.  “An
agent has such authority as the principal, actually or ostensibly, confers upon
him.”  (Civ. Code § 2315.)  Here, the Defendants could not confer upon
LAPRAAC the authority to sell firearms because they did not have such
authority.  And if the Defendants had no
such authority, LAPRAAC could not be acting upon ostensible authority to do
what the Defendants could not.  Without
the authority to sell firearms, LAPD’s alleged direction to its officers to go
to LAPRAAC to purchase firearms is a referral to purchase firearms from a
licensed firearm dealer –LAPRAAC.  The
referral does not create an agency relationship.  What is lacking is evidence the Defendants
had the authority to sell firearms, told anyone they had such authority or
acted in such a way to give anyone the impression they could sell firearms and,
concomitantly, that they told anyone or acted in any way to lead others to
believe that LAPRAAC had the authority to sell firearms on their behalf as
their agent.  As the sales evidence
demonstrates, LAPRAAC sold the firearms under its license.
 
Certainly, there is plenty of
evidence connecting the LAPD/City and LAPRAAC, but not on the narrow question before
this court – firearm sales.  For
instance, encountering the LAPD badge and logo in the LAPRAAC store might indicate
LAPRAAC could sell LAPD’s trademarked items. 
Or taking Plaintiffs’ evidence that the LAPD held LAPRAAC out as a subject
matter expert in firearms and related gear proves just that: LAPRAAC are experts
in firearms and related gear.  This
evidence, however, does not establish that the City/LAPD stated they could sell
firearms and held out the promise that LAPRAAC could sell LAPD’s firearms or
sell firearms for LAPD as its agent, authorized or ostensible. This is especially
so given that the LAPD and the City had no license to sell firearms in the
first place.  
 
In other instances, Plaintiffs’ evidence
unduly focuses on LAPRAAC’s non-firearm related conduct, which is insufficient to
show whether LAPRAAC was the ostensible agent for the sale of firearms.  (Pereda, supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at
p. 768; American Way, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at p. 1053.)  Moreover, Plaintiffs’ repeated reference to
LAPRAAC as the source for LAPD-related necessities (see, e.g., AMF 19, 21, 23,
24) only underscores LAPRAAC’s role in aiding LAPD-related activities, not LAPD’s
or the City’s authority to sell firearms and LAPRAAC authority to sell firearms
as Defendants’ ostensible agent.  The false
impression of agency must be based on the acts or declarations of the principal.  Here. Plaintiffs do not present such acts or
declarations of the principals on this narrow and relevant topic.    
 
Plaintiffs similarly fail to demonstrate
that Plaintiffs’ belief that LAPRAAC was LAPD’s or the City’s ostensible agent
for the sale of firearm was reasonable.  Plaintiffs
cannot reasonably rely on statement not made – and Plaintiffs do not point to
any statements or actions by the principals that would reasonably lead
Plaintiffs to believe LAPD or the City could sell firearms and that LAPRAAC sold
firearms as their agent.  Nothing about
the sales transaction indicates that LAPRAAC sold firearms under the LAPD’s or
the City’s authority to sell firearms.  (See
UMF 23 (Murra); UMF 23 (Brown); UMF 40 (Palacios); UMF 40 (Fritz); UMF 33
(Gener).)  
 
No doubt, Plaintiffs’ evidence
shows a strong association between LAPRAAC and LAPD.  However, Plaintiffs’ evidence stops short of
showing any representation from the City or LAPD that LAPRAAC was their agent for
the sale of firearms.  Having not
provided evidence of such representations, the Plaintiffs fail to establish reasonable
reliance.  
 
Case law is in accord.  Magallanes v. Doctors Medical Center of
Modesto (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 914 (Magallanes) is instructive.  In Magallanes, Magallanes brought
medical-negligence claims against her doctor and the Doctors Medical Center of
Modesto (Center).  The doctor was an
independent contractor.  The Center moved
for summary judgment on the ground that it could not be held vicariously liable
for the doctor's negligence.  Magallanes
opposed summary judgment on the ground that she was never “provided actual
notice” that the doctor was an independent contractor rather than an employee
of the center.  The Court of Appeal
rejected Magallanes’s theory because she had not actually “relied on the
hospital's selection or assignment of a doctor”—i.e., on any manifestation by
the principal.  (Magallanes, at p.
924.)  And it disavowed Magallanes’s view
that she could just “assume” her doctor worked at the center even though the Center
did not suggest as much.  (Id.)
 
Like Magallanes, Plaintiffs
do not point to any evidence of a representation from the City from which it
may be inferred that LAPRAAC was its firearms agent or that LAPRAAC employees
were employed by the City.  
 
                In Pereda, supra, 85
Cal.App.5th 759, 762, an adult jiu-jitsu student was injured during a sparring
match.  The injured student sued the
studio where he was taking lessons as well as the national jiu-jitsu
association under whose auspices the studio's students could compete.  The appellate court affirmed the trial court’s
grant of summary judgment in favor of the association.  Ruling on the issue of ostensible authority,
the appellate court found that the association's conduct did not give rise to a
reasonable belief the association controlled the studio’s sparring
practices.  The plaintiff argued the
league had ostensible authority, in part, because the association’s banner was
on display in the studio and the association’s website listed the studio as one
of its affiliates, among other references. 
The Appellate Court found the use of the trade name and reference in the
website insufficient to create a reasonable belief of ostensible authority over
the day to day operations of the studio. 
The Appellate Court concluded that the “information plaintiff knew at
the time of his injury does not, as a matter of law, give rise to a reasonable
belief that defendants had control over the League's supervision of sparring
during its classes.” (Id. at p. 772.) 
So too here, the peripheral references between LAPD and LAPRAAC do not
make the Plaintiffs’ belief reasonable that LAPRAAC had the ostensible
authority to sell firearms on behalf of LAPD and the City.  
 
Plaintiffs cite Ermoian, supra,
152 Cal.App.4th 475 to illustrate the existence of an ostensible agency
relationship.  However, Ermoian serves
only to prove the deficiency of Plaintiffs’ evidence.  In Ermoian, the Court of Appeal found
that Desert Hospital held out clinic physicians as its ostensible agents,
stating:  
 
“Here, the Hospital
held out the clinic and the personnel in the clinic as part of the Hospital.
Furthermore, it was objectively reasonable for [the patient's mother] Shahan to
believe that Drs. Gubin and Ogata were employees of the Hospital. The clinic
was located across the street from the Hospital. It used the same name as the
Hospital and labeled itself as an outpatient clinic. Numerous professionals at
the clinic were employees of the Hospital. Both [employees] Cribbs and Sterling
indicated to Shahan that they were employees of the Hospital and that the
program was run by the Hospital. Sterling personally set up all of Shahan's
appointments at the main Hospital rather than giving Shahan a referral for the
various tests. Shahan was referred by individuals in the emergency room
specifically to Dr. Gubin. When she called for an appointment, she was told by
the receptionist that she was calling the Hospital outpatient clinic which was
the clinic of Dr. Gubin. On days when Shahan would see either Dr. Gubin or Dr.
Ogata at the clinic, she would also see either Cribbs or Sterling, whom she
knew were employed by the Hospital.” 
 
(Ermoian, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 509.)
 
The only similarities between Ermoian
and this case is the proximity of LAPRAAC’s LAPD’s respective properties.  LAPRAAC’s gun store is located on the City’s
and LAPD’s training academy campus.  (AMF
3.)  However, unlike Ermoian, LAPRAAC
does not provide LAPD “services” such that it is an extension of the LAPD.  The clinic in Ermoian provided
outpatient services, i.e., medical services. 
The clinic and the hospital provided medical services.  LAPD is a law enforcement agency.  LAPD is not in the business of selling
firearms, nor is it licensed to do so.  LAPRAAC is a retailer of firearms and police
equipment.  There is no overlap in services.  Further, Plaintiffs do not point to any
representations made by any LAPD or City employee that is reasonably
susceptible to showing an ostensible agency relationship between the LAPD and
LAPRAAC for the sale of LAPD’s firearms. 
Plaintiffs’ reliance on Ermoian is misplaced. 
 
In the end, Plaintiffs fail to
demonstrate the reasonableness of their belief that LAPRAAC was an ostensible
agent of LAPD or the City for the sale of firearms (as a matter of law).  Similarly, the absence of any statements or
acts by the Defendants indicating that LAPRAAC was authorized to sell LAPD firearms
leaves Plaintiffs without triable issues of material fact on the narrow
question whether LAPRAAC was the ostensible agent of the City or LAPD for the
purpose of selling LAPD’s firearms.  Plaintiffs
fail to carry their burden.
 
Summary judgment is warranted on
Murra, Brown, Fritz, and Gener’s negligence claims against the LAPD and the City.  Summary adjudication of Palacios’s negligence
claims against the LAPD and the City is likewise warranted.[6]
 
VII.     CONCLUSION 
 
            Defendant
City of Los Angeles’s Motions for Summary Judgment of Plaintiffs Gus Murra,
Victor Brown, Jerry D. Fritz, Louie Gener’s negligence and negligent supervision,
hiring, and retention claims are GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
City of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff Jacob
Palacios’s negligence and negligent supervision, hiring, and retention claims is
GRANTED.
 
            The court
will discuss Plaintiff Palacios’s retaliation claim with the parties at the
hearing. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
Dated:   May 23, 2024                                    
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 
 


