

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of January 31, 2024                  [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of February 06, 2024                [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
On March
29, 2022, Creditor Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for
breach of contract and common counts against Construction Servicing Center,
Inc. aka Construction Servicing Center Inc aka Construction Servicing Ctr Inc.
dba Sunuso Energy adba Solar Servicing adba Servicing Center Inc (“Defendant”).

Defendant
filed an answer on August 22, 2022. 
On October
25, 2023, Plaintiff filed (1) Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Sanctions; and (2) Motion for
Order Compelling Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One, and
Request for Sanctions against Defendant. Defendant filed in opposition on
November 13, 2023, and Plaintiff replied on November 15, 2023. The Court
granted both motions on December 27, 2023, and ordered Defendant to serve code
complaint and verified responses to Plaintiff within twenty (20) days. The
Court additionally issued sanctions against Defendant for $2,120.00.
On December
04, 2023, Defendant’s counsel Lawrence C. Ecoff, Esq. (“Counsel”) filed the
instant Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant. (“Motion”). 
No
opposition has been filed.
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Counsel prays to
the Court for an order to relieve him as counsel for Defendant citing a breakdown
in communication between the Attorney and his client. Counsel states that the breakdown
of the attorney-client relationship has made it impossible for counsel to
represent Defendant’s best interests, thus necessitating the motion.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition has been filed.
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd.
(2).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as
counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi
& Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Forms
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) 
 
In
addition, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 subsection (d) requires that
the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order be served on
the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case by personal
service, electronic service, or mail. If the notice is served by mail, it must
be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either: 
(A)  The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
 
(B)   The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client,
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (1)(A) & (2).)  
 
Under the Code of
Civil Procedure section 1014, “A
defendant appears in an action when the defendant answers, demurs, files a
notice of motion to strike, files a notice of motion to transfer pursuant to
Section 396(b), moves for reclassification pursuant to Section 403.040, gives
the plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of
appearance for the defendant. After appearance, a defendant or the defendant's
attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is
required to be given. Where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or
papers need not be made upon the defendant.”
 
II.        Discussion 
 
            On December 04, 2023, Counsel moved
for the Court to relieve him as counsel of record for Defendant Construction
Servicing Center, Inc. c/o Zepyor Parseghian. (Mot. (MC-051).) Counsel properly
filed a Notice of Motion and Motion (MC-051). Counsel also provides a
Declaration in Support of the Motion (MC-052) stating that, “There has
been a break-down of the attorney-client relationship making it impossible for
counsel to represent the best interests of the client.” (MC-052, ¶ 2.) On Form MC-052,
Counsel indicates that he served Defendant by mailing copies of the motion papers
to Defendant’s
last known address. (MC-052 ¶ 3a(2).) Counsel also confirmed
within thirty (30) days that the address is current by telephone. (MC-052 ¶ 3b(1)(b).)
 
Counsel also provides the Court with a
Proposed Order, Form MC-053. (MC-053.) Counsel additionally includes Proof of
Service to each form indicating that both Plaintiff and Defendant has been
served with the Notice of Motion and Motion, Declaration, and Order.
 
The Court finds that all procedural requirements have been
satisfied and there is no showing that withdrawal
would cause injustice or undue delay in the proceedings. 
 
Accordingly, Counselor Ecoff’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Construction Servicing Center,
Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant’s Counsel Lawrence C.
Ecoff’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant
Construction Servicing Center, Inc. is GRANTED. 
 The Court's Ruling and Attorney's relief as Counsel of record for client is not effective until
Proof of Service of the Order signed by the Court upon the client is filed in this action. Until
then, counsel continues to be counsel of record. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(e). 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.