 Case Number:  23IWUD00772    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendants Amanda Pool and Stephen SnyderResponding Party: Plaintiff Lisa Lindo LiebleinDemurrer to Second Amended ComplaintThe court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGThe demurrers to the Second Amended Complaint by Pool and Snyder are OVERRULED.BACKGROUNDOn April 12, 2023, plaintiff Lisa Lindo Lieblein, as power of attorney for Benice Winikur, filed an unlawful detainer complaint against defendants Amanda Pool, Stephen Snyder, and Does 1 through 10. On October 17, 2023, plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for fraud and breach of contract against the same defendants.LEGAL AUTHORITYWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228. “A demurrertests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905. “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEPool and Snyder’s requests for judicial notice are GRANTED in full.Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is DENIED.DISCUSSIONDefendants demur to the SAC on the grounds that the first, second, and third causes of action for fraud, breach of contract, and fraud – promise without intent to perform, fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain. The court will address the separate arguments made by Defendants Amanda Pool and Stephen Snyder.“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.A claim for fraud must plead all of the following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2)¿knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332. Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading. Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216. Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations. Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184. The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made. Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.“The facts essential to the statement of a cause of action in fraud or deceit based on a promise made without any intention of performing it are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent at the time of making the promise; (3)¿the promise was made with intent to deceive or with intent to induce the party to whom it was made to enter into the transaction; (4) the promise was relied on by the party to whom it was made; (5) the party making the promise did not perform; (6) the party to whom the promise was made was injured.” Regus v. Schartkoff (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 382, 389.By Amanda PoolThe crux of Pool’s demurrer rests on the assertion that the underlying lease agreement, which forms the basis of Plaintiff’s unlawful detainer action, is null and void. This assertion is grounded in the claim that Plaintiff admitted to never having signed or agreed to the Lease’s terms, effectively rendering any contractual obligations unenforceable by her own admission. Furthermore, Pool contests Plaintiff’s allegations of fraud and breach of contract on several fronts. She challenges the specificity and sufficiency of the factual allegations made by Plaintiff, arguing that the SAC fails to meet the required legal standards for stating a cause of action and that the economic loss doctrine precludes Plaintiff from framing what are essentially breaches of contract claims as tort actions to seek punitive damages. Additionally, Pool disputes the validity of the contracts referenced in the SAC.The court finds that the SAC provides sufficient facts to allege a claim for fraud and breach of contract. First, the court notes that the Lease is not null for Plaintiff’s failure to sign because for a contract to be enforceable, it need only be signed by the party to be charged, which is Pool in this case. See Steel v. Duntley (1931) 115 Cal.App. 451, 452 (“The party to be charged is the only one who must sign.”) Second, the court finds that the voluminous specific statements of fact are sufficient to support Plaintiff’s claims.The SAC identifies three contracts that Plaintiff entered into with Pool: (1) Independent Contractor Agreement dated January 5, 2022 (SAC ¶ 8, Ex. 2); (2) additional Independent Contractor Agreement dated April 28, 2022 (SAC ¶ 8, Ex. 3); and (3) a Lease dated July 1, 2022 (SAC ¶ 8, Ex. 4). Under the first two contracts, the parties agreed that Pool would manage and organize Plaintiff’s mother’s Airbnb listing. The SAC provides copies of the contracts, which include the material terms. The SAC also provides specific allegations as to how Pool breached the terms. (See SAC ¶¶ 85-89.) The SAC also provides facts as to how Pool breached the Leaseagreement by failing to pay rent and failed to remedy dangerous conditions. Although there are integration clauses within the Independent Contractor agreements, they are immaterial for purposes of demurrer.As to the fraud claims, Plaintiff lays out voluminous specific misrepresentations made by Pool which were made with “the intention of inducing Lindo to allow [Snyder and Pool] to live in the house, purport to remodel it and purchase thousands of dollars in materials…and with the intention of depriving Plaintiff of money and property.” (SAC ¶ 96; see also SAC ¶¶ 9-89.) Plaintiff alleges that she relied on Defendants’ representations and believed them to be true and that she suffered injury. (SAC ¶¶ 94-85.) Those facts are more than mere conclusions and, if believed by a factfinder, could lead to a finding of liability for fraud.As such, the demurrer is OVERRULED.The motion to strike, although noticed, was never filed. Therefore, the court declines to rule on such a motion.By Stephen SnyderSpecifically, as to the Third Cause of Action for Fraud – Promise Without Intent To Perform, Snyder argues that the allegations in paragraphs 101 to 105 fail to directly implicate Snyder alongside Pool since the mention of Snyder only arises in paragraph 106, where he is accused of aiding and abetting Pool’s alleged fraudulent actions without any factual support or detailed explanation of his supposed involvement. Snyder states there are no specific factual details regarding misrepresentations made by either Pool or Snyder, including how Snyder was purportedly aware of these falsehoods or intended to defraud Plaintiff.As to the First Cause of Action for Fraud, Snyder highlights paragraphs 90-96 and 101-107, along with preceding paragraphs referenced therein, as being full of ambiguities, generalizations, and conclusory statements without the necessary factual support. Two examples cited to illustrate these issues are paragraphs 96 and 92, which make broad claims about false representations by Snyder and Pool without detailing the nature of these misrepresentations, how they were known to be false, or how they intended to induce Plaintiff’s reliance or caused her damage.Snyder also argues that the first and third causes of action are barred by the Economic Loss Doctrine because they pertain solely to contract performance issues rather than constitutingindependent tortious conduct. Specifically, Snyder argues the allegations described are deemed to relate directly to contractual obligations, such as paying rent, completing property remodeling, managing an Airbnb listing, and safeguarding personal property, without alleging any independent duty arising from tort law. This, according to Snyder, means the claims do not establish tortious conduct beyond the breach of contract itself. Snyder requests that he be dismissed entirely from this case without prejudice given Plaintiff’s own admission that “all of the Agreements were made between Amanda and Lindo and her mother without Steve.” (SAC ¶ 85C.)The court finds that the SAC provides sufficient facts to allege a claim for fraud against him. First, Plaintiff alleges that Snyder made specific misrepresentations such as: “I am a real estate professional of 20 years and have overseen construction and remodels and everything under the sun;” “Me combined with Amanda is a dream team in regards to a project like this.”; promises that they would show Plaintiff plans for specific remodels; and “You and Hermosa project is our number one priority. We have committed to you and we love it and want to make things work out so well. Nothing has changed.”. (SAC ¶¶ 21, 22, 24, 92, 93.) Second, Plaintiff alleges these misrepresentations and concealment of facts were made with “the intention of inducing Lindo to allow [Snyder and Pool] to live in the house, purport to remodel it and purchase thousands of dollars in materials…and with the intention of depriving Plaintiff of money and property.” (SAC ¶ 96.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that she relied on Defendants’ representations and believed them to be true. (SAC ¶ 94.) Fourth, Defendants failed to perform their promises. (SAC ¶¶ 94.) And finally, Plaintiff alleges she suffered injury. (SAC ¶¶ 95.) The court finds these allegations to be sufficient to constitute a cause of action for fraud or deceit based on a promise made without any intention of performing. These allegations are sufficient to show tortious conduct, i.e., deceit, independent of the breach of contract itself.Accordingly, the demurrer by Snyder is OVERRULED.Moving defendants are ordered to give notice of the ruling.