 Case Number:  23TRCV01059    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Party: Defendant Edward Castro dba New Starboard AttitudeResponding Party: Plaintiff Gwendy KettingMOTION TO DISQUALIFY MARY L. CARUSO AND WILSHIRE LAW FIRM, PLCThe court considered the moving, opposition, reply, and objection to new evidence papers.RULINGThe MOTION TO DISQUALITY is DENIED.BACKGROUNDOn 4/6/2023, plaintiff Gwendy Ketting (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Mike Shepard, Edward Castro dba New Starboard Attitude, and Does 1 to 100, asserting two causes of action for (1) general negligence and (2) premises liability.The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff tripped and fell due to a dangerous condition at Starboard Attitude, a bar in Redondo Beach, California. The alleged dangerous condition was a multiple-inch difference in height between the walking path leading to the entry of the bar and the bottom of the door allowing patrons entry to the bar. The defendants allegedly negligently owned, maintained, managed, and operated the bar, failed to correct the dangerous condition, and failed to warn invitees of the dangerous condition.On 8/14/2023, defendant Edward Castro dba New Starboard Attitude (“Defendant”) filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 to 100, asserting causes of action for (1) indemnity, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief.On 3/7/2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to disqualify counsel.On 5/2/2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition to the motion.On 5/13/2024, Defendant filed its reply.On 5/14/2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to new issues raised in, and evidence submitted with, Defendant’s reply.4/14/2025 is the date set for trial.LEGAL STANDARD“The statutory source of the trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from its power ‘[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).) This power, which is ‘“inherent in every court”’ [citation], authorizes a trial court in either a civil or a criminal case to discharge an attorney who has a conflict of interest.” People v. Noriega (2010) 48 Cal.4th 517, 524.“‘Disqualification motions implicate several important interests, among them are the clients’ right to counsel of their choice, the attorney’s interest in representing a client, the financial burden of replacing a disqualified attorney, and tactical abuse that may underlie the motion. [Citations.]” Sundholm v. Hollywood Foreign Press Association (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1330, 1340 (“Sundholm”). “‘Although disqualification necessarily impinges on a litigant’s right to counsel of his or her choice, the decision on a disqualification motion “involves more than just the interests of the parties.” [Citation.]’” Ibid. When ruling on a disqualification motion, “[t]he paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The important right to counsel of one’s choice must yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.”’ [Citation.]” Ibid.“‘It must be remembered, however, that disqualification is a drastic course of action that should not be taken simply out of hypersensitivity to ethical nuances or the appearance of impropriety.’ [Citations.]” Sundholm, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 1340.Indeed, “[w]e do not disqualify a lawyer from representing a client to punish the lawyer’s mistakes or even bad behavior. [Citation.] The discipline of lawyers in California is a function reserved to the State Bar.” Sundholm, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 1340 (citing Gregori v. Bank of America (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 291, 308 (“Gregori”) for the proposition that not every instance of unprofessional conduct or bad judgment by an attorney warrants disqualification).“Since the purpose of a disqualification order must be prophylactic, not punitive, the significant question is whether there exists a genuine likelihood that the status or misconduct of the attorney in question will affect the outcome of the proceedings before the court.” Gregori, supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at p. 308. “Thus, disqualification is proper where, as a result of a prior representation or through improper means, there is a reasonable probability counsel has obtained information the court believes would likely be used advantageously against an adverse party during the course of the litigation. Though such information cannot be unlearned, and the lawyer who obtained it cannot be prevented from giving it to others, disqualification still serves the useful purpose of eliminating from the case the attorney who could most effectively exploit the unfair advantage.” Id.“Disqualification is inappropriate, however, simply to punish a dereliction that will likely have no substantial continuing effect on future judicial proceedings. [Citation.] There are other sanctions which in that situation must suffice, including imposition of attorneys fees and costs incurred by the other side as a result of the misconduct (Code of Civ. Proc., § 128) and reporting of the misconduct to the State Bar of California so that it may determine whether disciplinary action is appropriate, in which case the attorney should be notified that this has been done. (Cf. Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6086.7.)” Gregori, supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at p. 309.REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEOn March 7, 2024, Defendant filed a request for judicial notice of an order filed in Ventura County Superior Court, Gregory Michael Jack v. Postmates, LLC, et al., Case No. 56- 2022-00569991-CU-PA-VTA.On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to that request for judicial notice, arguing that it is irrelevant and unduly prejudicial.Defendant’s request for judicial notice is denied because the superior court ruling is not relevant to this action or motion. In addition, although a court may take judicial notice of court records pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d), “a court cannot take judicial notice of hearsay allegations in a court record ….” Starr v. Ashbrook (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 999, 1014.DISCUSSIONDefendant seeks an order disqualifying Plaintiff’s counsel Mary L. Caruso and Wilshire Law Firm, PLC (collectively, “Counsel”), alleging that counsel had improper contact with Defendant despite knowing (or should have known based on court records) that Defendant was represented by counsel. See Rules of Prof. Conduct, rule 4.2(a) (stating that “[i]n representing a client, a lawyer shall not communicate directly or indirectly about the subject of the representation with a person the lawyer knows to be represented by another lawyer in the matter, unless the lawyer has the consent of the other lawyer”).Defendant argues Counsel had improper contact with Defendant in the following ways.First, before substituting in as counsel and while Plaintiff’s former counsel was still Plaintiff’s counsel of record, Counsel sent a preservation of evidence letter directly to Defendant (instead of defense counsel) on August 29, 2023, making “a series of serious civil and criminal threats for violations.” Motion, p. 4:1-5. Months later, on December 29, 2023, Counsel emailed defense counsel, revealing for the first time that Counsel had sent or hand-delivered the preservation of evidence letter directly to Defendant. Motion, p. 4:6-9.Second, Counsel’s “consultant” delivered a copy of the preservation of evidence letter directly to Defendant’s manager on September 5, 2023, instead of giving it to defense counsel. Motion, p. 4: 10-15.For those reasons, Defendant argues in its moving papers that Counsel should be disqualified.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that disqualification is neither justified nor proper under the circumstances.Plaintiff argues that at the time Plaintiff mailed Defendant the preservation of evidence letter on August 29, 2023, her Counsel was unaware that an Answer had been filed and was not in receipt of prior counsel’s file.However, that fact is not supported by any evidence (e.g., a declaration). Attorney Mary L. Caruso only testifies in her declaration that on August 28, 2023, Plaintiff retained Wilshire Law Firm, PLC, and that the only time someone on Plaintiff’s behalf went to Defendant’s location was on September 5, 2023, for the purpose of delivering a letter. Opposition, Caruso Decl., ¶¶ 2, 8. The attorney does not mention the preservation of evidence letter. She also does not testify that she was unaware that Defendant was represented by counsel on August 29 and September 5, 2023, when Counsel sent or hand-delivered copies of the preservation of evidence letter to Defendant.In any event, in its reply, Defendant contends that the mailing of the letter to Defendant on August 29, 2023, is no longer “the basis of Defendant’s Motion to Disqualify, nor does Defendant contend that the letter alone warrants disqualification. Understandably, there may have been a mistake in the file transition of the file providing a reasonable explanation for the improper contact.” Reply, p. 3:3-6.Therefore, the issue here is whether the hand-delivery of a copy of the preservation letter to Defendant’s manager on September 5, 2023, warrants disqualifying Counsel from this case.“When a party moves to disqualify opposing counsel based on allegedly improper receipt of privileged or confidential information, the party seeking disqualification has the initial burden to show its adversary possesses confidential information materially related to the proceedings before the court. [Citation.] The moving party need not disclose the actual information asserted to be confidential but must provide the court with the nature of the information and its material relationship to the proceeding.” Sundholm, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 1341.Here, the court finds that Defendant has not met its initial burden of showing that Plaintiff obtained confidential information materially related to this action when she hand-delivered a copy of the preservation letter to Defendant on September 5, 2023. None of the new evidence Defendant has filed with its reply brief changes this conclusion. See Supplemental Declaration of Joseph V. Macha, filed May 13, 2024, ¶¶ 5-6 (submitting new exhibits); Plaintiff’s Objection to New Evidence Submitted With Reply, filed May 14, 2024, p. 3:11-24 (arguing that the court should not consider the new evidence because Plaintiff did not have a chance to address that evidence in her opposition). In the absence of evidence showing a genuine likelihood that Counsel’s misconduct will affect the outcome of the proceedings before the court, the court declines to disqualify Counsel.For those reasons, the motion is denied.Moving party is ordered to give notice.