  Case Number:  22SMCV01934    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  LEO DAVID,    Plaintiff, v.  AURICE VELOSO,   Defendant.    Case No.:  22STCV35085 c/w 22SMCV01934     Hearing Date:  March 20, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF LEO DAVID’S MOTIONS TO    QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS FOR    PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS    [LEO AND RUTH DAVID’S MEDICAL    RECORDS] AND FOR SANCTIONS     AURICE VELOSO,    Cross-Complainant, v.  LEO DAVID, et al.,   Defendants.             BACKGROUND  This is an elder abuse case.  Defendant Aurice Veloso was a caregiver for Plaintiff Leo David and his late wife, Ruth David.  (Compl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant stole monies and personal property and engaged in financial and physical elder abuse.  (Id. ¶¶ 11-30.)   The operative complaint alleges eleven claims for: (1) Elder Abuse; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (5) Promissory Estoppel; (6) Breach of Oral Agreement; (7) Fraud; (8) Conversion; (9) Trespass to Chattel; (10) Defamation: Slander (Cal. Civ. Code § 46); and (11) Unjust Enrichment. This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to quash deposition subpoenas for production of medical records of Plaintiff and his late wife.  The subpoenas were served on eight medical providers: (1) Cedars-Sinai, (2) Dr. Heckman, (3) Dr. Lee, (4) Glenn R. Ehresmann, M.D., (5) Jeffrey F. Caren, M.D., (6) Ralph’s Pharmacy, (7) ELCA Health-RFOI and (8) USC Keck Medicine.  The subpoenas seek “all medical records” from 2010 to present.   Plaintiff argues that (1) the subpoenas are grossly overbroad in time and scope, (2) the subpoenas seek irrelevant information, and (3) the subpoenas are harassing and were served for an improper purpose.  In the alternative, Plaintiff requests that should the subpoenas be allowed, the Court should enter a protective order to protect the confidentiality of the business records.   LEGAL STANDARD A motion to quash a deposition subpoena or deposition notice is used to strike, modify, or impose conditions on a subpoena or notice that is procedurally or substantively defective.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1987.1, subd. (a), 2025.410, subd. (c).)  Such a motion may be made by: (1) any party to the action (2) the subpoenaed witness; (3) a person (party or nonparty) whose consumer, governmental, or employment information or records have been subpoenaed; or (4) the Court, on its own motion, after giving the parties notice and the opportunity to be heard.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a), (b).)  The Court has broad discretion to quash a deposition subpoena upon good cause shown.  (Flynn v. Superior Court (1979) 89 Cal. App.3d 491, 495.)  A motion to quash may be based on various grounds, including that the subpoena: (1) seeks information that is not relevant to the issues in the case (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010); (2) imposes an undue burden or expense, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation (see Id. at § 2019.030(a)(2)); and (3) is unreasonably duplicative or cumulative of discovery already obtained or information that is available from another source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive.  (Id. at § 2019.030(a)(1).) MEET AND CONFER A¿motion to quash a deposition subpoena must be accompanied by a¿meet and confer declaration under¿Section 2016.040.¿¿Here, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration states that the parties met and conferred on February 19, 2024.  (McKeon Decl. ¶3.)  During the meet and confer, Plaintiff agreed he would not move to quash the subpoenas on two conditions: (1) Defendant would agree to maintain the medical records as confidential under a protective order, and (2) Defendant would agree to provide Plaintiff a copy of the medical records.  (Id.)  Following the call, Plaintiff’s counsel sent defense counsel a draft protective order and followed up by email on February 20 and February 21.  (Id. ¶5.)  Defense counsel never responded.  (Id.)  The Court concludes Plaintiff’s counsel’s call with, and emails to, defense counsel are sufficient to comply with the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040. ANALYSIS Plaintiff agreed not to quash the deposition subpoenas should two conditions be met: (1) Defendant agrees to a protective order, and (2) Defendant agrees to produce a courtesy copy of the medical records.  The Court holds Plaintiff to his offer and declines to consider arguments to quash the subpoena on relevance, overbreadth and other grounds.  The Court will enter the protective order attached as Exhibit 1 to Plaintiff’s motion, and order Defendant to provide courtesy copies of the medical records to Plaintiff so long as Plaintiff bears the expense of copying costs. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions pursuant to §§ 2023.030(a) and 1987.2.  Section 2023.030(a) allows the court to impose sanctions on one that engages in the misuse of the discovery process.  Section 1987.2 provides that the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive. The Court concludes that sanctions are warranted.  The Court finds Defendant engaged  in a misuse of the discovery process by not agreeing to the protective order which would have resolved the dispute, without Court intervention.  While Defendant ultimately signed a protective order (different from the one proposed by Plaintiff), she only did so after the motions to quash were filed.  Even now, Defendant argues the protective order proposed by Plaintiff deviates from the Court-approved form but does not explain how any of Plaintiff’s modifications to the Court-approved form are improper or objectionable.   Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $3,850 for each motion to quash, which represents 5 hours preparing the motion and 2 hours preparing a reply and for the hearing, at an hourly rate of $550.  The Court concludes that the hourly rate of $550 is reasonable given prevailing market rates but the hours requested are not reasonable.  Plaintiff seeks $3,850 for each motion to quash, even though the motions are virtually identical.  The Court will only award $3,850.      CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s motions to quash deposition subpoenas and for sanctions.  Defendant is required to pay $3,850 in sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days of this Order.    DATED: March 20, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 