 Case Number:  23NWCV02824    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  C PASSPORT FOODS USA, LLC v. PASSPORT
FOODS (SVC), LLC, ET AL. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02824
HEARING:   10/23/24
@ 10:30 A.M.
 
#11
TENTATIVE RULING
 
James V. Fazio’s motion to be relieved as counsel for defendants
Passport Foods (SVC), LLC; Skyview Capital, LLC; Alex Saltani; Jeffrey Luft;
and Kevin Kerr is CONTINUED November 13, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
The motion is unopposed as of October 21, 2024. 
 
 
James V. Fazio
moves to be relieved as counsel for defendants Passport Foods (SVC), LLC;
Skyview Capital, LLC; Alex Saltani; Jeffrey Luft; and Kevin Kerr. 
 
Good
cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on the
nonpayment of attorney fees and the fact that clients have not responded to
requests for payment. (Decl. Fazio, ¶ 2.) 
 
Counsel
did not prepare the proposed order on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil (form MC-053) as required. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Based
on the above and upon review of the other filings, the motion is CONTINUED to November 13, 2024 at 10:30 A.M. Counsel is to file and
serve the proposed order Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel – Civil (form MC-053) with proof of service upon the clients within
10 days.  
 
 
 