  Case Number:  22NWCV00487    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  C ANITRA WASHINGTON VS. REID, ET AL.  
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00487
HEARING:   10/23/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
I.            
Cross-Defendant Marriann Bohling’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant Ersell
Reid’s First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part
with 20 days leave to amend.   
 
II.           
Cross-Defendant Marriann Bohling’s motion to strike portions of the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is MOOT. 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
No Opposition
filed as of October 21, 2024.
 
I.            
Demurrer
 
Factual Background
 
This case arises from
the purchase of real property located at 201 Reposadro Drive, La Habra Heights
90631 (the “Subject Property”) by Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Anitra
Washington (“Washington”) with a $260,000.00 contribution by Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Ersell Reid (“Reid”). (FAXC, ¶¶ 13-14, 32). Reid tried to buy
the property by herself but failed. (FAXC, ¶ 18.) She then sought help from Washington,
paying her $15,000.00. (FAXC, ¶ 19.) On August 27, 2021, the sellers executed
the grant deed to both Washington and Reid. (FAXC, ¶ 24.) 
 
In September 2021, Reid
caught COVID-19 during the pendency of escrow and could not execute loan
documents in person due to her needing to be in isolation. (FAXC, ¶¶ 25 to 27.)
Her real estate agent, Cross-Defendant Alora De La Vara (“De La Vara”) of
Keller Williams, suggested the following: (1) change the loan documents so that
only Washington is on the title of the property; (2) have Washington sign the
loan documents to keep the interest rate and allow for an instant close; (3) prepare
a grant deed with both Washington and Reid on the title; (4) once Reid feels
better, both she and Washington will sign the grant deed. (FAXC, ¶ 28.)  On September 21, 2021, the parties closed
escrow. (FAXC, ¶ 30.) 
 
Cross-Defendant Diane
Luongo (“Luongo”) was the loan officer. (FAXC ¶¶ 4, 16.) Cross-Defendant Marriann Bohling (“Bohling”) was the escrow agent and
notary facilitating the close of the transaction of the Subject Property. (FAXC
¶¶ 5, 17.)
 
In January 2022, De La
Vara listed the subject property for sale. (FAXC, ¶ 33.)
 
Reid alleges that escrow
never prepared the grant deed from Washington to Reid. (FAXC, ¶ 29.) Reid
alleges that but for the Cross-Defendants, she would not have taken her name off
the grant deed conveyed to her and Washington. (FAXC, ¶ 29.) 
 
Reid also alleges that
Washington falsely asserted that they agreed orally that Reid would buy the
property from Washington when Reid could. (FAXC, ¶ 32.) 
 
Reid further alleges that Cross-Defendants knew that Reid
planned to take possession as an owner/buyer and refinance the subject property
out of the loan in Washington’s name into Reid’s favor, and informed Reid that
such a transaction would in fact be possible. (FAXC, ¶ 22.)
 
Reid sues for the
following: (1) fraud; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) breach of contract; (4)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.; (5)
cancellation of written instruments; (6) negligent misrepresentation and
intentional misrepresentation; (7) promissory fraud; (8) fraudulent
concealment; and (9) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
Cross-Defendant Bohling
demurs to the first through eighth causes of action in the First Amended Cross-Complaint
on the grounds that they do not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and are uncertain. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party
may demur to an entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).) The complaint must be construed liberally by drawing
reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Flynn v. Higham
(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 677, 679.)
 
The burden is on the
complainant to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully, to
obtain an order allowing leave to amend. 
(McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
72, 78.) “Leave
to amend should be denied where
the facts are not in dispute and the nature of the claim is clear, but no
liability exists under substantive law.” (Lawrence
v. Bank of America (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 431, 436.) 
 
Meet-and-Confer
 
Cross-Defendant satisfied
the meet-and-confer requirements. (Decl. Loangkote, ¶¶ 3 to 6, Ex. A to C; Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Requests for Judicial
Notice
 
Bohling requests
judicial notice of the following: (1) notice of ruling of Plaintiff’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings in the instant action; (2) notice of entry of
judgment and judgment declaring Plaintiff Anitra Washington as the legal owner
of the subject property in the instant action.  
 
A court may take
judicial notice of the contents of its own records. (Dwan v. Dixon
(1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265.)
 
Thus, the Court grants
judicial notice of the two requests. 

 
Second Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Bohling demurs on the grounds that she did not owe a fiduciary
duty as the escrow agent. 
 
The elements of a
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary
relationship; breach of fiduciary duty; and damages caused by the breach. (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) 
 
Bohling argues that Reid was not a party to escrow; thus, Reid is
not owed a fiduciary duty. Bohling further argues that even if she was, Reid
decided to remove her name from the title because she was sick with COVID-19
and could not execute the documents in time to close escrow. Bohling also
argues that any alleged promise to perform a future act not included in the
escrow instructions are beyond the duties of an escrow officer. 
 
Reid alleges that Bohling pursued personal gain or benefits,
directly or indirectly, at Reid’s expense. (FAXC, ¶ 52.) Reid further alleges
that Bohling failed to act as a reasonably careful escrow officer and notary
would have acted under the same or similar circumstances. (FAXC, ¶ 56.) Reid was
harmed as a result and Bohling’s conduct was a substantial factor in Reid’s
harm. (FAXC, ¶ 56.) 
 
Whether a fiduciary duty exists is generally a question of law. (Marzec
v. Public Employees’ Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915.)
An escrow involves the deposit of documents and/or money with a
third party to be delivered on the occurrence of some condition. (Summit Fin. Holdings, Ltd. v. Cont'l Laws. Title Co.
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 705, 711.)  An escrow
holder is an agent and fiduciary of the parties to the escrow. (Ibid.) The
agency created by the escrow is limited to the obligation of the escrow holder
to carry out the instructions of each of the parties to the escrow. (Ibid.)
If the escrow holder does not carry out an instruction it has contracted to
perform, the injured party has a cause of action for breach of contract. (Ibid.)
 
Here, Reid is suing under a breach of fiduciary duty theory, not a
breach of contract theory. Despite this, Reid does not allege which escrow
instructions Bohling did not follow. 
 
The demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Third Cause of Action – Breach of Contract 
 
Bohling
demurs on the ground that Reid failed to identify any contract provision Bohling
allegedly breached. 
 
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to
establish the following: (1) the existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff. (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) 
 
If
a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In
some circumstances, a plaintiff may also plead the legal effect of the contract
rather than its precise language. (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) 
 
Here, Reid does not allege whether the contract was written, oral
or implied in conduct.  Also, Reid does
not allege which contract provision Bohling breached.  
 
The demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Unfair Business Practices
 
Bohling demurs on the grounds that Reid does not cite a law or statute
that Bohling allegedly violated. 
 
To plead a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was
engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) 
 
          Unlawful
Conduct
 
“Unlawful”
conduct includes any business practice or act forbidden by local, state, or
federal statutes or by regulations or case law. (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661, 676.) “Unlawful” conduct
claims that borrow violations of other laws and make those unlawful practices
separately actionable through the UCL are generally per se violations of the
unlawful prong. (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1342, 1383.)  
 
Here, Reid alleges that Bohling failed to
act as a reasonably careful escrow holder would have acted under the same or
similar circumstances. (FAXC, ¶ 71.) Reid does not allege any business practice
or act forbidden by local, state, or federal statutes or by business
regulations or case law. Thus, unlawful conduct is not sufficiently alleged. 
 
          Unfair
Conduct
 
There is a split in authority about what
constitutes an “unfair” practice in consumer actions in unfair competition law.
Some cases hold an “unfair” practice is one that offends established public
policy, that is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, or substantially
injurious to consumers, or that has an impact on the victim that outweighs
defendant's reasons, justifications, and motives for the practice. (Jolley v. Chase Home Fin., LLC (2013) 213 Cal. App. 4th
872, 907.) Others hold that the public policy, which is a predicate to a claim
under the “unfair” prong of the UCL, must be tethered to specific
constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions. (Ibid.) The Court
adopts the latter approach. 
 
Here, as discussed above, Ried did not tether
the practice to a constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provision. Thus,
unfair conduct is not sufficiently alleged. 
 
          Fraudulent Conduct
 
A defendant violates
the fraudulent business acts or practices prong of the UCL by engaging in
conduct by which “members of the public are likely to be deceived.” (See Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
211.) Courts apply an objective standard to determine whether a business
practice is “likely to deceive,” assessing the potential for deception against
an audience of “reasonable consumers” rather than the least sophisticated
consumer. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
26, 55.) 
 
Here, Reid does not
allege any fraudulent conduct. 
 
Based on all the above, the demurrer to the
Fourth Cause of Action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action – Cancellation of Written
Instruments 
 
Bohling demurs on the ground that Reid does not allege Bohling has
interest in the subject property. 
 
As section 3412 of the Civil Code provides
states, a written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable
apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person
against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged,
and ordered to be delivered up or canceled. A person who does not have an
interest in a parcel of real property cannot bring an action to cancel a deed
or mortgage regarding the property. (Osborne v. Abels (1939) 30
Cal.App.2d 729, 731.)
 
Bohling argues that Reid must allege that Bohling has an
interest in the property in order to state a claim for cancellation of written
instruments.  However, this argument is
not supported by the authority Bohling cites – Wolfe v. Lipsy (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 633, 638.  
 
The demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.  
 
First, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes
of Action – Fraud, Negligent Misrepresentation and
Intentional Misrepresentation, Promissory Fraud, and Fraudulent Concealment
 
Bohling addresses all four causes of action for fraud together and demurs
on the ground that Reid did not adequately plead justifiable reliance. 
 
The elements of fraud are the
following: (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.) This requires pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were made. (Ibid.) 
 
Reid alleges that in or about September 2021, De La Varas, Luongo and Bohling knowingly
made false representations to Reid, with the intent to deceive and induce Reid
to act or refrain from acting in reliance upon these misrepresentations. (FAXC,
¶ 92.) The false representations made by the defendant include claiming that
the title of the subject property would be recorded with Reid’s name and Reid’s
financial and equitable interest would be protected, inducing Reid to make the
deposit on the home knowing that they had no intention on keeping with the
agreement to have escrow prepare a grant deed with Reid names on title, and it
was possible to refinance the subject property out of Washington’s name. (FAXC,
¶ 92.) De La Varas, Luongo, and Bohling made these false representations to Reid
in connection with the title and purchase of the subject property. (FAXC, ¶
92.) Washington also assured Reid that title would be restored in Reid name. (FAXC,
¶ 93.) Reid justifiably relied on each Cross-Defendant's false representations
and, as a result, suffered damages amounting to $450,000.00. (FAXC, ¶ 94.)
 
The Court finds that Reid did not
adequately plead how, where, and by what means the representations were made. Because
Reid did not sufficiently plead these facts, the Court will not address
justifiable reliance, which would require the Court to evaluate the
circumstances under which these statements were made. (OCM Principal
Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal. App.
4th 835, 864.)
 
Thus, the demurrer to the First, Sixth,
Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action are SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend.  
 
Uncertainty
 
Bohling does not make any arguments about
uncertainty. Nonetheless, the Court will adjudicate this issue. 
Demurrers for uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery can
be used for clarification, and apply where defendants cannot reasonably
determine what issues or claims are stated. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal.,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)  
 
The Court does not find that the allegations are so uncertain that Cross-defendant
cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated. 
 
II.           
Motion to Strike
 
Bohling moves to strike Reid’s request for costs of suit and
attorney fees, specifically page 15, paragraph 18, lines 17-18; page 20,
paragraph 94, lines 25 to 27; and prayer, paragraph 7, lines 6-7. Bohling also
moves to strike Reid’s request for punitive damages, specifically page 16,
paragraph 74, lines 11-14; prayer, paragraph 3, lines 23-26, and prayer,
paragraph 6, lines 3-4. 
 
Reid alleges attorney fees based on the breach of contract and
fraud causes of action. (FAXC, ¶¶ 68, 94.) Because the Court sustained the
demurrer as to these two causes of action, Bohling’s request is moot. 
 
Reid alleges punitive damages based on the fraud, breach of
contract, and breach of fiduciary duty causes of action. (FAXC, Prayer, ¶¶ 3,6.)
Because the Court sustained the demurrer as to these causes of action, Bohling’s
request is moot. 