 Case Number:  22NWCV01608    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  C MARIO ANTONIO PEREZ, ET AL. v. COUNTRYWIDE MEDITERRANEAN
APARTMENTS, LLC
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01608
HEARING:
 10/23/24 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#3
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant MED (DE), LLC’s motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. The
Court strikes Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
This motion is unopposed as of October 21, 2024. 
 
 
This is about a habitability action. Defendant
MED (DE), LLC moves for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Briana Wingo
and monetary sanctions and in the alternative, monetary sanctions and evidence
sanctions. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A Court may order a terminating sanction for
discovery abuse after considering the totality of the circumstances: conduct of
the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377,
390.)  A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court can impose the ultimate sanction. (Id.)   
 
Courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. (Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.) 
 
The court can strike the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant argues that the Court may grant
terminating sanctions because Plaintiff did not obey the Court’s order
compelling discovery responses issued on April 30, 2024.  
 
On April 30, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; and Form Interrogatories,
Set One. Defendant’s counsel testifies that Plaintiff has not responded to
discovery to date. (Decl. Lezon, ¶ 21.) 
 
The Court may grant Defendant’s motion to
dismiss because the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with the discovery rules. Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
discovery requests were originally due in July 2023. Plaintiff has delayed
responding for more than one year. Plaintiff did not respond to Defendant’s request,
did not oppose the discovery motions, and did not oppose this motion. It
appears Plaintiff is no longer interested in litigating this matter.
 
Defendant’s motion
for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s complaint is stricken. In its
discretion, the Court does not award monetary sanctions. 
 
 