 Case Number:  23NWCV02474    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  C WHITTIER APARTMENT HOMES, LLC VS.
GREEN WORLD WINDOWS & DOORS CORP. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02474
HEARING:   10/23/24 @ 10:30 A.M.
 
#12
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Green World Windows & Doors
Corp.’s demurrer to the complaint is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part as
set forth below.  
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
Background
Plaintiff Whittier
Apartment Homes, LLC (“Plaintiff”) owns Cierra Luxury Apartments.  On August 19, 2021, Defendant Green World
Windows & Doors Corp. (“Defendant”), a subcontractor, entered into an
agreement with Vertical Integrity, Inc. to supply vinyl windows for Cierra
Luxury Apartments. (Compl., ¶¶ 7, 8.) The work performed resulted in a glare
from several windows at Cierra Luxury Apartments. (Compl., ¶ 10.) On September
7, 2023, Plaintiff sent Defendant an indemnity demand letter pursuant to
Exhibit F of the subcontract agreement. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Defendant replaced several
windows but did not resolve the dangerous condition. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff
sues Defendant for the following: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) negligence; and (4) declaratory
relief. 
 
Defendant demurs to all
four causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party
may demur to an entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).) The complaint must be construed liberally by drawing
reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Flynn v. Higham
(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 677, 679.)
 
The burden is on the
complainant to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully, to
obtain an order allowing leave to amend. 
(McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
72, 78.) “Leave
to amend should be denied where
the facts are not in dispute and the nature of the claim is clear, but no
liability exists under substantive law.” (Lawrence
v. Bank of America (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 431, 436.) 
 
Meet-and-Confer
 
The parties have
sufficiently met and conferred. (Decl. Baldino, ¶¶ 5-6; Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(3).)   
 

First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that it is not a party to the
contract referenced in the complaint, and the allegations do not support a
breach. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that it is a third-party beneficiary of the contract. 
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish the following: (1) the
existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff. (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811, 821.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant entered into the subcontract agreement with Vertical Integrity, Inc. regarding
Cierra Luxury Apartments, which contains an indemnity clause. (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff
does not allege that there was an agreement between it and Defendant. Plaintiff
has not alleged it is a third-party beneficiary. 
 
Plaintiff is required to
allege it is a third-party beneficiary. (Goonewardene v ADP, LLC (2019)
6 Cal.5th 817, 821.) 
 
Thus,
the demurrer to First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 Because this issue is dispositive, the
Court will not adjudicate Defendant’s other arguments regarding to this cause
of action.     
 
Second Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds that it is not a party to the
contract referenced in the complaint, and the allegations do not support a
breach. 
 
The implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing rests upon
the existence of
some specific contractual obligation. (Racine & Laramie,
Ltd. v. Dept. of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031.) The
covenant of good faith is read into contracts to protect the express covenants
or promises of the contract, not to protect some public policy interest not
directly tied to the contract’s purpose. (Ibid.) It is implied as a
supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party
from engaging in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express
covenants) frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.
(Id., at pgs.1031-1032.)
 
For the same reasons stated above, the demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Third Cause of Action – Negligence
 
Defendant demurs on the ground that it complied with its
contractual obligations by supplying the window products as specified in the contract
plans; it did not breach its contract and cannot be found negligent or
responsible for any resulting defects. Defendant also demurs on the ground that
because it did not breach its contract, it did not breach its contractual
indemnity obligations. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that a contractor
can be found negligent for installing a product pursuant to a contract if the
installation was performed negligently or if the contractor knew or should have
known that the installation was inherently dangerous. 
 
To state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of the following: (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant owed a
duty to Plaintiff to use skill, prudence, and diligence to competently and in
good faith perform work on the project under the subcontract agreement and to
indemnify Plaintiff as required under the agreement. (Compl, ¶ 40.) The vinyl
windows resulted in a glare that caused physical damage to the premises from
burning of umbrellas and other property. (Compl., ¶ 41.) Defendant agreed to
replace the windows, but installed the same windows, a negligent act. (Compl.,
¶ 42.) Further, Plaintiff relied on representations that the replacement
windows would fix the problem, but they did not. (Compl., ¶ 42.) Plaintiff
demanded that Defendant take measures to correct the problem, and Defendant
responded it would not, which constitutes further negligence. (Compl., ¶¶ 43 to
44.) 
 
Every contract contains a common law duty
to perform the thing to be done with care, skill, reasonable expedience, and
faithfulness, and the negligent failure to do so is a tort as well as a breach
of contract. As the court held in El Escorial Owners’
Ass’n v DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1358, a subcontractor’s failure to ensure a watertight connection
between walls constituted negligence even though it followed plans and
specifications for project. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the Third Cause of
Action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
Defendant demurs on the ground that the fourth cause of action is
not a cause of action, but a remedy and does not give rise to an independent
basis for relief.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that declaratory relief is a cause
of action.  
 
Plaintiff alleges that an actual controversy has arisen regarding
Defendant’s duties under the subcontract agreement, including Exhibit F.  (Compl., ¶ 47.) Plaintiff contends that
Defendant must indemnify Plaintiff under the subcontractor agreement based on a
breach of contract theory. (Compl., ¶ 51.) 
 
To qualify for
declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 authorizes
actions for declaratory relief under a “written instrument” or
“contract.”  
 
But the declaratory relief statute should not be used to predict
and determine an issue which can be determined in the main action. (Hood v. Super. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 319, 324.)
The object is to afford a new form of relief where needed and not to provide a
litigant with a second cause of action for the determination of identical
issues. (Ibid.)  Here, the
declaratory relief action duplicates the breach of contract cause of action. 


Further, there is no basis for declaratory relief
where only past wrongs are involved. (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc.
v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366.)  Here, Defendant seeks
declaratory relief to redress past wrongs, i.e., damages owed for allegedly
breaching an agreement. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to Fourth Cause of Action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 