  Case Number:  24SMCV04108    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 20, 2024, cont’d to January 15, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04108




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff’s Counsel Randy Chang of The Chang Firm




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati



 
MOTION
 
            Randy Chang of The Chang Firm,
counsel for Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati (“Counsel”) moves to be relived as counsel,
citing a “fatal breakdown in communication[.]” 
Plaintiff and client Nadia Heshmati (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion and
Counsel replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Counsel has filed forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053.  The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates
that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent because “There is a fatal
breakdown in communication between attorney and client such that it would be
impractical and impossible to effectively represent the client.”  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion on the grounds that she does not have money
to pay another lawyer (Heshmati Decl. at ¶¶ 14-16; 18; 22-23), but also indicates
that there may be a conflict of interest between Counsel and the opposing party
Defendant Michael Carbajal.  (Heshmati
Decl. at ¶¶ 9-13.)
 
The Court finds that both Counsel’s and Plaintiff’s declarations
demonstrate there has been an irreparable breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship.  As such, the Court finds
that the motion is substantively proper. 
(See generally Rules Prof. 
Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            The original proof of service
indicates that the motion (form MC-051) was served on the client by mail and
email.  (See California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362, subd. (d) [“The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail.”])  However, originally
there was no indication that forms MC-052 or MC-053 were served on any party.  Nor was there an indication that either
Defendant (both of whom have answered) was served with the motion and related
papers.  As such, the Court continued the
hearing on the motion so Counsel could effectuate proper service.
 
Subsequently, Counsel filed an amended proof of service, demonstrating
that all three forms (MC-051; MC-052; and MC-053) were electronically served on
counsel for Defendant Wilen, served electronically and by mail and on the
self-represented Defendant Carbajal, and served by mail on the client.  Counsel also served notice of the Court’s
ruling continuing the hearing on all parties.
 
Further, the attorney declaration indicates the client’s address was
confirmed current within the past 30 days by court record, and Plaintiff indeed
responded in opposition to the motion. 
Thus, the motion is procedurally proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, having found the Motion both procedurally and substantively
proper, the Court Grants Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel and Counsel
shall file a revised MC-053 on or before January 29, 2025.  
 
After the Court approves the revised MC-053, Counsel shall serve the
signed order (form MC-053), which shall include information about all future
hearings and proceedings noticed by any party, or ordered by the Court, on the
client and all other parties who have appeared in the action, within 10 days of
the date of this Order, and file a proof of service of such.  Counsel will remain the attorney of record
for Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati until Counsel files the requisite proof(s) of
service.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  
 
Further, to ensure that the Court’s records are updated following the
filing of the proof(s) of service, Counsel shall contact the Court to advise
that the proof(s) of service has been filed.   

 
 
 
 
DATED:  January 15, 2025                            ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT 


207




HEARING DATE


January 15, 2025




CASE NUMBER 


24SMCV04108




MOTION


Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP) 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant Dennis Howard Wilen




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from allegations of cyberbullying.  On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati
(“Plaintiff” or “Heshmati”) filed suit against Defendants Dennis Howard Wilen
(“Wilen”) and Michael Carbajal (“Carbajal”) (together, “Defendants”) alleging
six causes of action for (1) defamation per se; (2) defamation per quod libel;
(3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4) invasion of privacy (CC
1708.85); (5) intentional interference with economic advantage; and (6) assault
and battery. 
 
Wilen now files a special motion to strike the complaint pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure, section 425.16 (“Anti-SLAPP motion.”)  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Wilen
replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
1.    
Exhibit 1: the Honorable Judge Ochoa’s minute order on
May 15, 2024 denying respondent Wilen’s vexatious litigant motion against
petitioner Heshmati in civil harassment restraining order case number
24STRO00564
 
2.    
Exhibit 2: the global settlement agreement between the
Aaronsons, Heshmati, and Dr. Radfar that completed all cases between them in
November 2022
 
3.    
Exhibit 3: petitioner Heshmati’s opposition to
respondent Wilen’s motion to declare her a vexatious litigant
 
4.    
Exhibit 4: attorney Melvin Teitelbaum’s California Bar
Association conviction record regarding a criminal matter involving two minor
children and their mother
 
5.    
Exhibit 5: Civil Harassment Restraining Order issued
against Defendant Carbajal in case number 24STRO02540
 
6.    
Exhibit 6: print-out of the website whatsmyname.at for
Defendant Wilen’s name (Voidmstr) that shows he is on an AI app called
Character.ai that is also used by Defendant Carbajal and “Jessica Gonzales
2001” that has been sending out defamatory emails to Heshmati’s business and
social circles such as SWEA
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
As for Exhibit 1, the Court
takes judicial notice of Judge Ochoa’s May 15, 2024 minute order, and the truth
of the results reached therein, as a court record.  Similarly, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibit 5 – the Civil Harassment Restraining Order issued against Carbajal in
case number 24STRO02540.
 
As for Exhibit 3, while the
existence and filing of an opposition brief would ordinarily be the proper
subject of judicial notice (but not the truth of hearsay matters asserted
therein), the version of the opposition brief Plaintiff has presented to the Court
is not conformed (filed-stamped), and therefore the Court cannot determine that
it is a court record.  Further, Exhibit 3
contains several pages of unauthenticated pictures and other documents.  Therefore, the Court declines to take
judicial notice of Exhibit 3 in its entirety.
 
Similarly, as for Exhibit 4, while
an attorney’s California Bar Association record could be properly the subject
of judicial notice, as a fact that is not reasonably subject to dispute and
which authenticity can be immediately determined by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy (the California Bar Association’s website),
the document Plaintiff has attached as Exhibit 4 contains additional
documentation and unspecified online articles that are not part of the
California Bar Association record. 
Therefore, the Court denies judicial notice of Exhibit 4 as submitted.
 
Regarding Exhibits 2 and 6,
the Court finds no basis in the evidence code to take judicial notice of a
private, unauthenticated settlement agreement or a printout of the website
whatsmyname.at.  Therefore, the Court declines
to take judicial notice of Exhibits 2 and 6.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court overrules Plaintiff’s
objection to the Declaration of Dennis Wilen in its entirety.
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of Melvin Teitelbaum:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Overruled
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Overruled
8.    
Overruled
9.    
Overruled
 
The Court overrules Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of Anita
Brenner in its entirety.
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Wilen’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.    
Sustained
2.    
Sustained
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Sustained
5.    
Sustained
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Sustained
8.    
Sustained
9.    
Sustained
10.  Sustained
11.  Sustained
12.  Sustained
13.  Sustained
14.  Overruled
15.  Sustained
16.  Sustained
17.  Sustained
18.  Sustained
19.  Sustained
20.  Overruled
21.  Sustained
22.  Sustained
23.  Sustained
24.  Sustained
25.  Sustained
26.  Overruled
27.  Overruled
28.  Overruled
29.  Sustained
30.  Sustained
31.  Sustained
32.  Sustained
33.  Overruled
34.  Sustained
35.  Sustained
36.  Sustained
37.  Sustained
38.  Overruled
39.  Overruled
40.  Overruled
41.  Overruled
42.  Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“A cause of action
arising from a person's act in furtherance of the ‘right of petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection
with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike[….]’”  (Monster Energy Co. v. Schechter
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 781, 788 (hereafter Monster).)  Such lawsuits are commonly known as “SLAPP”
suits (Strategic Litigation Against Public Participation).  (Id. at fn. 1.)
 
Background
 
The California
Legislature enacted Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, known as the
“anti-SLAPP statute” to “allow[] defendants to seek early dismissal of
unmeritorious claims arising from protected speech and petitioning activities.”  (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1004 (hereafter Bonni.)  “Enacted by the Legislature in 1992, the
anti-SLAPP statute is designed to protect defendants from meritless lawsuits
that might chill the exercise of their rights to speak and petition on matters
of public concern.”  (Wilson v. Cable
News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 883–884 (hereafter Wilson).)  The anti-SLAPP statute is also designed to
expedite the early dismissal of unmeritorious claims arising from protected
activity.  (Newport Harbor Ventures,
LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th 637, 642; Simpson
Strong-Tie Co., Inc. v. Gore (2010) 49 Cal.4th 12, 21.)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate
defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected
rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at
an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 384, emphasis in original (hereafter Baral).)  But anti-SLAPP motions are not permitted in
limited civil cases. (1550 Laurel Owner’s Assn., Inc. v. Appellate Division
of Superior Court (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1146, 1149.)
 
“SLAPPs are
unsubstantiated lawsuits based on claims arising from a defendant's
constitutionally protected speech or petitioning activity.”  (Kurz v. Syrus Systems, LLC (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 748, 757 (hereafter Kurz).) 
They “seek[] to chill rights to free speech or petition by dragging the
speaker or petitioner through the litigation process, without genuine
expectation of success in the suit.”  (Area
51 Productions, Inc. v. City of Alameda (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 581, 591–592
(hereafter Area 51 Productions.) 
They are “generally brought to obtain an economic advantage over the
defendant, not to vindicate a legally cognizable right of the plaintiff.”  (Grenier v. Taylor (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 471, 479.)  
 
“The Legislature enacted
section 425.16 to provide a summary disposition procedure for SLAPP
claims.”  (Area 51 Productions, supra,
20 Cal.App.5th at p. 592.)  The
statute “authorizes courts, upon motion by anyone who claims to be the target
of a SLAPP suit, to probe the basis for any cause of action allegedly arising
from protected communicative activities, and to strike it if the claimant
cannot show minimal merit.”  (Ibid.)  A special motion to strike may only be
directed to a complaint, cross-complaint, or petition, but not to an answer or
affirmative defenses.  (Morris Cerullo
World Evangelism v. Newport Harbor Offices & Marina, LLC (2021) 67
Cal.App.5th 1149, 1156-1157.)
 
Procedure
 
To determine whether an
anti-SLAPP motion should be granted, courts engage in a two-step process and
evaluate the merits of the claim(s) using a “summary-judgment-like
procedure.”  (Baral, supra, 1
Cal.5th at p. 384.)  “The procedures
authorized in the statute allow a defendant to stay discovery before litigation
costs mount, obtain early dismissal of the lawsuit, and recover attorney fees.”  (Kurz, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at
p. 757.)  A special motion to strike “is
not a substitute for a motion for a demurrer or summary judgment.”  (Belen v. Ryan Seacrest
Productions, LLC (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1161.)  And there is no meet and confer requirement
prior to filing an anti-SLAPP motion.  (Trinity
Risk Management, LLC v. Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 995, 1008.)  
 
First Step
 
In the first step, the
moving defendant has the initial burden of showing that the challenged cause of
action arises from protected free speech or petitioning activity.  (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p.
1009; Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2
Cal.5th 1057, 1061 (hereafter Park).) 
“The defendant's first-step burden is to identify the activity each
challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that activity is protected by
the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Wilson,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 884.)  When
the defendant has not met this burden, the court may summarily deny the special
motion to strike “without putting the plaintiff to the burden of establishing
the probability of success on the merits.” 
(Whitehall v. County of San Bernardino (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352,
360 (hereafter Whitehall).)
 
“[I]n ruling on an
anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim
and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form
the basis for liability.”  (Park, supra,
2 Cal.5th at p. 1063.)  It is not enough
that a claim was filed after or even “because of” protected activity, but
rather the protected activity must “supply elements of the challenged
claim.”  (Id. at p. 1064.)  Moreover, courts “must distinguish between
speech or petitioning activity that is mere evidence related to liability, and
liability that is based on speech or petitioning activity.”  (Whitehall, supra, 17
Cal.App.5th at p. 361.)
 
Moreover, the anti-SLAPP
statute does not require a defendant “to disprove allegations of illicit
motive.”  (Wilson, supra, 7
Cal.5th at p. 887.)  Courts must
distinguish between “allegations of conduct on which liability is based” and
“allegations of motives for such conduct” because “the anti-SLAPP statute is
triggered only when the alleged injury-producing conduct is protected activity,
not merely the motivating conduct for that activity.”  (Gaynor v. Bulen (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
864, 887 (hereafter Gaynor).) 
However, a defendant’s motives are not “categorically off-limits in
determining whether an act qualifies as protected activity under the anti-SLAPP
statute” but “the plaintiff's allegations cannot be dispositive of the
question.”  (Wilson, supra,
7 Cal.5th at p. 889.)  “[W]hether the
defendant's act qualifies as one in furtherance of protected speech or
petitioning will depend on whether the defendant took the action for
speech-related reasons.”  (Ibid.)  “But there is an important difference between
permitting the defendant to present evidence of its own motives in an effort to
make out its prima facie case of protected activity and treating a plaintiff's
allegations of illicit motive as a bar to anti-SLAPP protection,” which is not
proper.  (Ibid.)  
 
Second Step
 
Once the court finds the
defendant has made the threshold showing, the “the burden then shifts to the
plaintiff to show a probability of prevailing on [the] claims.”  (De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 854.)  To meet
this burden, “the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.”  (Finton Construction, Inc.
v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 211.)  “[T]he plaintiff must then demonstrate its
claims have at least ‘minimal merit.’ ” 
(Park, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 1061.)  “[A] plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the
merit of the claim ‘may not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified;
instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence.’”  (Monster, supra, 7 Cal.5th at
p. 788.)  “[A] court must at the second
step accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff” but is not
required to give “similar credence” to allegations in the complaint “in the
face of contrary evidence.”  (Wilson,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 887.)  
 
This procedure is
essentially a summary judgment motion in reverse.  (Area 55, LLC v. Nicholas & Tomasevic,
LLP (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 136, 152.) 
“Rather than requiring the defendant to defeat the plaintiff's
pleading by showing it is legally or factually meritless, the motion requires
the plaintiff to demonstrate that he possesses a legally sufficient
claim which is ‘substantiated,’ that is, supported by competent, admissible
evidence.”  (Ibid.)  “Consistent with this summary-judgment-like
procedure, the court “must draw all reasonable inferences from the evidence in
favor of [the party opposing the anti-SLAPP motion.’”  (Ibid.)  “Only a [cause of action] that satisfies both
prongs of the anti-SLAPP statute—i.e., that arises from protected speech
or petitioning and lacks even minimal merit—is a SLAPP suit, subject to
being stricken under the statute.”  (Sheley
v. Harrop (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1147, 1162.) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
1.     Protected Activity
 
The Complaint alleges that
Plaintiff was previously involved in a dispute with her now-former neighbors,
the Aaronsons.  Plaintiff has since
settled her cases with the Aaronsons and they have relocated.  (Complaint ¶ 39.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges that on the basis of this prior dispute with the
Aaronsons, Wilen, who Plaintiff alleges is connected with the Aaronsons, has
now continued a campaign of harassment against Plaintiff by making vulgar and
defamatory posts about her online, which include superimposing her face over
pornographic content and doxing her by including her personal and contract
information on the posts.  (Complaint ¶¶
41-54.)
 
The conduct alleged – superimposing Plaintiff’s face over pornographic
imagery, and making other vulgar and outlandish statements about Plaintiff online
– does not, on its face appear to be protected activity.
 
Wilen argues that this lawsuit
nonetheless arises from protected activity because (1) it was brought after
Heshmati sued Wilen for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”), which was
rejected and Wilen filed a restraining order action against Heshmati, which is
still pending, and therefore arises from protected litigation activity; and (2)
the lawsuit was designed to chill Wilen’s work as a semi-retired journalist in
public relations.
 
a.     
Protected
Litigation Activity
 
            As for Wilen’s first argument that
this lawsuit was filed in retaliation to prior litigation activity, Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision
(e) provides:  “As used in this section,
‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the
United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’
includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law [….]”  
 
The filing of a lawsuit
“indisputably is a ‘statement of writing made before a … judicial
proceeding[.]’”  (Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 90 (hereafter Navellier).)  “[S]tatements, writings, and pleadings in
connection with civil litigation are covered by the anti-SLAPP statute” and
“shall be construed broadly” in order to “protect[] the right of litigants to
the utmost freedom of access to the courts without the fear of being harassed
subsequently by derivative tort actions.” 
(Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
1467, 1478-1479 (hereafter Feldman).) 
 “Filing a lawsuit is an act in
furtherance of the constitutional right of petition, regardless of whether it
has merit.”  (JSJ Limited Partnership
v. Mehrban (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1512, 1521 (hereafter JSJ).)
 
In determining whether a
defendant has satisfied its burden under the first prong, “the critical
consideration is whether the cause of action is based on the defendant's
protected free speech or petitioning activity.” 
(Feldman, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at p. 1478.)  The focus is “the defendant’s activity that
gives rise to his or her asserted liability—and whether that activity
constitutes protected speech or petitioning.” 
(Ibid.)  An “act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech” includes
“statements or writings before a judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law and statements or writings made in connection with
an issue under consideration or review by a judicial body.”  (Ibid.)
 
But “[t]he subjective intent
of a party in filing a complaint is irrelevant in determining whether it falls
within the ambit of section 425.16.  There
simply is nothing in the statute requiring the court to engage in an inquiry as
to the plaintiff’s subjective motivations before it may determine whether the
anti-SLAPP statute is applicable.”  (JSJ,
supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 1521.)
 
Further, “the mere fact that
an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the
action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute.”  (Navellier, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 89.)  “Moreover, that a
cause of action arguably may have been “triggered” by protected activity does
not entail it is one arising from such.” 
(Ibid.)  “In the anti-SLAPP
context, the critical consideration is whether the cause of action is based on
the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning activity.”  (Ibid.)  “In deciding whether the initial ‘arising
from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is
based.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, although this lawsuit
follows other litigation activity in which Plaintiff first sought a restraining
order against Wilen on January 23, 2024, and Wilen similarly sought a
restraining order against Plaintiff on March 28, 2024, the Complaint does not,
on its face, arise from Wilen’s request for a restraining order.  
 
Indeed, the only references to
a TRO or restraining order in the Complaint at all are in paragraph 49, where
someone allegedly posted on February 11, 2024, among other things, that
Plaintiff “has over 20 TRO restraining orders against her” and in paragraph 46,
where someone allegedly posted on March 3, 2024, “Heshmati is now trying to
serve Mr. Wilen with a restraining order, even though it’s her who is stalking
him.”  But both of those comments were allegedly
posted online before Wilen’s March 28, 2024 filing seeking a restraining order,
and therefore could not reference or encompass that subsequent filing.  Moreover, the second comment references
Plaintiff’s litigation activity, not Wilen’s. 
As such, this case does not, on its face, appear to arise from Wilen’s request
for a restraining order against Plaintiff or other protected litigation
activity by Wilen.  
 
Nor has Wilen presented any
other evidence that this lawsuit arises from Wilen’s prior litigation activity.  Rather, considering the pleadings and
affidavits filed in support and in opposition to the motion, it appears the
same underlying and escalating online harassment against both Plaintiff and
Wilen gave rise to both those prior filings and this lawsuit.   
 
As such, the Court finds Wilen
has not met his burden to demonstrate that this lawsuit arises from protected
litigation activity.
 
b.    
Protected
Journalism
 
In support of Wilen’s second
argument, that this lawsuit was filed to chill Wilen’s journalism, Wilen has
submitted a declaration, which indicates:
 
3. I have read and considered the Complaint filed
on behalf of Nadia Heshmati in this case. The allegations against me are false.

 
4. I did not post the materials alleged by
Plaintiff. I have not been hired by the Aaronsons. I have not threatened or
assaulted Plaintiff.
 
[…]
 
11. In the Summer of 2021, Nadia Heshmati posted
on Nextdoor platform that our USPS mail carrier, Annette Lanza, was stealing
mail. I did not know Nadia Heshmati. I did know Ms. Lanza, who was a beloved
part of our neighborhood. Ms. Lanza is an African American woman, and was a
30-year veteran of the post office. She delivered our mail for years. I spoke
with Ms. Lanza, who told me that Nadia Heshmati had chased her USPS truck and
called her a N**** C***. Subsequently, I logged on to Nextdoor and made a post
defending Ms. Lanza. 
 
12. As a result of my Nextdoor post, I was now on
Nadia Heshmati’s “list.” I did not know this at the time; but I had walked into
a long-standing neighborhood beef between Heshmati and her then-neighbors,
Arthur and Cynthia Aaronson. Other neighbors were aware of this. I was not. I
did not know the Aaronsons. After my post, Cynthia Aaronson texted me.
Subsequently, I walked the half block up the street to see where they all lived
and observed Nadia Heshmati in front of her house with either a chainsaw or leaf
blower. I am not sure which it was. I said, "You must be Nadia." In
response, Nadia Heshmati made a threatening gesture with the power tool. I
immediately left. 
 
13. A week or two later, when I was outside
walking, a delivery man was trying to push a hand truck across the road with
huge bottles of water. The road has two lanes, one in each direction. The
delivery man’s vehicle (possibly Sparkletts) was blocking one lane. The man was
coming out from behind the truck, barely visible. I saw a car, speeding down
the street. I could not see who was driving. At the time, I was not familiar
with Nadia Heshmati’s car. I put my hand up to try stop or slow the car. I was concerned
the car would hit the delivery man. The driver was Nadia Heshmati. She rolled
down her window and yelled, "Hey, get out of the way, you ugly Jew,"
This was my second encounter with Nadia Heshmati. Since then, I have tried to
avoid Nadia Heshmati. Her house is about a block up the street on the opposite
side of the street. I walk every day. I have walked for years. As a result of
the encounters, I stopped walking North on Roscomare, in the direction of Nadia
Heshmati’s house.
 
14. Since then, Nadia has reported me to the FBI.
She has threatened to kill me. She repeatedly contacted my landlord. She came
over and photographed our apartment building. She has tried to buzz her way
into our building. She has posted my name, financial history and personal
details online. She has posted the names of my entire family. She has emailed
my clients. She has accused me of being a pedophile, a pornographer and made
other false statements. (See Exhibits 18-19.) Many of her accusations have antisemitic
language and imagery. 
 
15. I am not any of the anonymous posters alleged
in the Complaint. 
 
16. I was not hired by the Aaronsons. My
attorneys are not paid by the Aaronsons. I am not part of a conspiracy.
 
[…]
 
19. The actions of Nadia Heshmati, including the
current lawsuit, have had a chilling effect on my comments about neighborhood
issues, my professional activities and my ability to seek redress in the court
system. Like many journalists and web publishers, I do most of my business
online. I had to lock down all my profiles, after Nadia Heshmati used them to
“dox” me and my family. This has interfered with my ability to conduct my
business online, including the public relations side of my practice. I am also fearful
due to Heshmati’s publication of my home address combined with false
allegations that I am a Jewish pedophile, a criminal, a drug addict, and a
mentally ill pornographer. When I retained Mr. Teitelbaum to defend me against
her first lawsuit, she began posting about his part of this supposed Jewish
conspiracy.
 
(Wilen
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, 11-16, 19.)
 
But again, the Complaint does
not reference Nextdoor, the mail carrier, or these posts, and therefore does
not, on its face, appear to arise from Wilen’s journalism activity.  Although the animosity between Plaintiff and
Wilen may have originated when Wilen made that initial Nextdoor post defending
the mail carrier, both Plaintiff and Wilen appear to have subsequently become
targets of online harassment campaigns.  Wilen
does not deny that these defamatory posts have been made about Plaintiff;
rather, Wilen simply denies being the one behind them.  As such, there is insufficient evidence for
the Court to conclude that this lawsuit arises from Wilen’s Nextdoor post
defending their mail carrier or other bona fide journalism activity, as opposed
to the defamatory online harassment listed on the face of the Complaint.  
 
Therefore, Wilen has not met
his initial burden of demonstrating the first prong that this lawsuit arises
from protected speech.
 
2.     Attorneys’ Fees
 
Subdivision (c) of Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides, “in any action subject to subdivision
(b), a prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to
recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs.  If the court finds that a special motion to
strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, the court
shall award costs and reasonable attorney’s fees to a plaintiff prevailing on
the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.”
 
Because the Court denies
Wilen’s special motion to strike, it similarly denies Wilen’s request for
attorneys’ fees.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff also
requests attorneys’ fees.  However,
although the Court does not find that Wilen has met his evidentiary burden to
prove that this lawsuit arises from Wilen’s protected speech and/or petition
activity, the Court does find some evidentiary support for Wilen’s arguments
connecting this lawsuit to the prior actions and NextDoor post, and therefore
not find that the motion was frivolous. 
As such, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees
incurred in bringing the motion.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Because the Court finds Wilen
has not met his initial burden of demonstrating that this lawsuit arises from
Wilen’s protected speech or petition activity, the Court denies Wilen’s special
motion to strike and request for attorneys’ fees in its entirety.  Similarly, although the Court ultimately
finds that Wilen failed to meet his evidentiary burden of proof, having found
some evidence to support Wilen’s motion, the Court does not find the motion to
be frivolous.  As such, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees. 

 
Wilen shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
DATED:
January 15, 2025                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court