 Case Number:  23STCV12201    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 27, 2022, Plaintiff John Dunton (“Plaintiff”) filed this action in the
Ventura County Superior Court against Defendants Robert Romo (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-10 for intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent
infliction of emotional distress, negligence, and declaratory relief. 
On
May 31, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to transfer the
case to the Los Angeles County Superior Court. 
On
July 20, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
April 3, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication, to be heard on December 3, 2024.  The same day, Defendant filed a motion to shorten time to hear his motion for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, to continue the trial date, to be heard on May 15,
2024.  Plaintiff did not file an
opposition to the motion to shorten time. 
Trial
is currently set for July 15, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to shorten time to hear his motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, to continue the trial to allow his summary judgment motion to be
heard. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment scheduling 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a) provides: 
“(1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers
shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the
time appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required
75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is
within the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the
State of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of
address is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30
days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a
party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
          To satisfy the statutory notice requirement, a summary
judgment motion “must be served at least 105 days before trial (longer if
served by mail) [citation].  Motions
served electronically must be served at least 107 days before trial.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 10:71, pp. 10-32 to 10-33.)  “The 30-day ‘cut-off’ under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c] is measured from the trial date in effect when the
summary judgment motion is made.”  (Id.,
¶ 10:74, p. 10-33.)   “[A] continuance of
the trial date ‘reopens’ the time for such motions.”  (Ibid.) 
B.       Trial
continuance 
“[A]
party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or
uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the request for a
continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under the rules in
chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The party must make
the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity
for the continuance is discovered.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
The
Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to death,
illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all facts
and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the trial
date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
DISCUSSION 
          On April 3, 2024, Defendant filed and electronically served
a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  At the time, the trial was scheduled for July
15, 2024.  In light of the July 15, 2024
trial date, Defendant was required to serve the motion for summary judgment no
later than April 2, 2024. 
          Defendant argues that he could not have served his summary
judgment earlier for reasons beyond his control.  Even assuming Defendant could not have avoiding
untimely service of his summary judgment motion (for example, by filing an ex
parte application to continue the trial), Defendant has identified no authority
that permits the Court to excuse the late service. 
          Because Defendant’s summary judgment motion does not comply
with the service requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (a), the Court denies Defendant’s request to shorten time to hear the motion.  For the same reason, Defendant has not shown
good cause to continue the trial. The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION  The
Court DENIES Defendant Robert
Romo's motion to shorten time to hear his motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, to continue the trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 