 Case Number:  20STCV26421    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Prior proceedings  On  July 14, 2020, Plaintiffs Nicole Triplett (“Triplett”) and Latasha Nash (“Nash”) filed this action against  Defendants Contemporary Services Corporation, City of Los Angeles (“City”),  Service Management Group, LLC, and Does 1-50 for assault, battery, negligence,  false imprisonment, battery by peace officer, and violation of federal civil  rights 42 U.S.C. section 1983.  On August  20, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a notice of errata correcting three dates in the complaint.  On  September 21, 2020, the Court dismissed Defendant Service Management Group, LLC,  with prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request.   On  October 5, 2020, the City filed an answer.  On January  7, 2021, the Court dismissed Defendant Contemporary Services Corporation without  prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request.  On  April 7, 2021, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendants SMG  Entertainment, Inc. as Doe 1, Staff Pro, Inc. as Doe 2, and Universal  Protection Service, LP, as Doe 3.  On  June 24, 2021, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendants SMG Management,  LLC, as Doe 4, SMG Management I, LLC, as Doe 5, and SMG Management II, LLC, as  Doe 6.  On  July 21, 2021, the Court sustained the demurrer and granted the motion to  strike filed by Defendants Staff Pro, Inc. d/b/a Allied Universal Event  Services and Universal Protection Service, LP, with leave to amend.  On  August 10, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint.  On  October 8, 2021, the City filed an answer.  On  October 14, 2021, the Court sustained the demurrer filed by Defendants Staff  Pro, Inc. d/b/a Allied Universal Event Services and Universal Protection  Service, LP to the claims for assault and battery, false imprisonment, battery  by a police officer, and civil rights violations under 42 U.S.C. section 1983  with leave to amend.  On  November 3, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint which added  Defendants Steve Lozano (“Lozano”) as Doe 11, Michelle Cassida (“Cassida”) as  Doe 12, Joe Paradice (“Paradice”) as Doe 13, Ryan Anderson (“Anderson”) as Doe  14, Michael Miller (“Miller”) as Doe 15, Emmanuel Turner (“Turner”) as Doe 16,  Sonia Lopez (“Lopez”) as Doe 17, Beatriz Villareal (“Villareal”) as Doe 18,  Kendra McDonald (“McDonald”) as Doe 19, and Dolores Martinez-Reifer (“Martinez-Reifer”)  as Doe 20.  On  January 5, 2022, the Court granted the motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s  second amended complaint filed by Defendants City, SMG Management LLC, SMG  Management I, LLC, and SMG Management II, LLC.  In addition,  the Court sustained the demurrer of Defendants Universal Protection Service, LP  and Staff Pro, Inc. dba Allied Universal Event Services to the fifth cause of  action for battery by a peace officer with 20 days leave to amend.  The Court granted the motion to strike  portions of the second amended complaint filed by Defendants Universal  Protection Service, LP and Staff Pro, Inc. dba Allied Universal Event Services.  On  January 25, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint.  On  March 7, 2022, the City, Martinez-Reifer, Cassida, and Lozano filed answers.  Defendants SMG Management, LLC, SMG  Management I, LLC, and SMG Management II, LLC, also filed an answer.  On  April 21, 2022, Defendant Staff Pro, Inc. dba Allied Universal Services (erroneously  sued and served as “Staff Pro, Inc.”) and Universal Protection Service, LP, filed  answers.  On June 14, 2022, the Court granted a stipulated  request for a protective order.   On  November 2, 2022, the Court dismissed Universal Protection Service, LP, without  prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request.  On  December 19, 2022, Defendant and Cross-Complainant Staff Pro Inc. dba Allied  Universal Event Services (erroneously sued and served as Staff Pro, Inc.')  filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants SMG Management, LLC, SMG Management I, LLC, SMG Management II, LLC, and  Roes 1-10 for equitable indemnity, express contractual indemnity, implied contractual  indemnity, contribution/apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  On February 3, 2023, Cross-Defendants SMG Management,  LLC, SMG Management I, LLC, and SMG Management II, LLC filed an answer to the cross-complaint.  On  July 20, 2023, Anderson, Miller, Lopez, McDonald, Paradice, Turner and  Villareal filed answers to Plaintiffs’ third amended complaint.  B.   Motions for leave to conduct Plaintiffs’ mental  examinations  On January 19, 2024, Defendants City, SMG Management,  LLC, SMG Management I, LLC, SMG Management II, LLC, Lozano, Martinez-Reifer,  and Cassida (“Moving Defendants”) filed motions for leave to conduct Plaintiffs’  mental examinations.  The motions were set to be heard on April 16,  2024.  The Court continued the hearings  to May 15, 2024.  On January 26, 2024,  Defendants Staff Pro, Inc. dba Allied Universal Event Services (erroneously  sued and served as Staff Pro, Inc.), Paradice, Anderson, Miller, Turner, Lopez,  Villareal, and McDonald filed joinders in the motions.  On April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions.  On April 9, 2024, Moving Defendants filed replies.  Trial  is currently scheduled for August 9, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Moving  Defendants ask the Court for leave to obtain discovery by mental examinations  of Nash and Triplett to be conducted by Michelle Conover,  Ph.D., whose specialty is neuropsychology, at Southern California Neuropsychology  Group, 5950 Canoga Ave., Suite 100, Woodland Hills, CA 91367.  Moving Defendants also ask the Court to order that (1) Plaintiffs may not make an audio recording of the entire examination and (2) Moving Defendants are not required to produce the raw test materials and data to Plaintiffs' counsel. Triplett  and Nash ask the Court (1) to allow them to make audio recordings of  the entire examination, (2) to order Moving Defendants to produce the raw test  data and test materials to Plaintiffs’ counsel, and (3) to order Moving  Defendants to provide an exact list of the tests that Dr. Conover will use.  LEGAL STANDARD   Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides:  “(a) In any  case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any  defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the  following conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The  examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,  protracted, or intrusive.  “(2) The  examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the  examinee.  “(b) A  defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court after  that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs  first.  “(c) A demand  under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,  and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if  any, of the physician who will perform the examination.  “(d) A  physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a  date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand. On motion of the  party demanding the examination, the court may shorten this time.  “(e) The  defendant shall serve a copy of the demand under subdivision (a) on the  plaintiff and on all other parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310  provides:  “(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a  physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with  Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of  court.  “(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)  shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the  examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person  or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by  a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the  person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2032.310.)            Code of  Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part:  “(a) The  court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section  2032.310 only for good cause shown.  * * *  “(d) An order  granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons  who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic  tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).)   DISCUSSION  A.   Good cause  Nash  and Triplett allege that Defendants’ actions caused them to suffer mental injuries.  They “[do] not oppose the notion of a defense  examination as long as the exam[inations] [are] reasonably limited in scope and  with appropriate protections in place.”   Specifically, Nash and Triplett ask the Court (1) to allow them to make audio  recordings of the entire examination, (2) to order Moving Defendants to produce  the raw test data and test materials to Plaintiffs’ counsel, and (3) to order  Moving Defendants to provide an exact list of the tests that Dr. Conover will use.          The Court finds good cause for the mental examinations.  B.       Audio  recording of examinations  According  to Moving Defendants, Dr. Conover will permit audio recording of the interview  portion of the examinations.  However,  Dr. Conover will not permit audio recording of the cognitive screening and test  administration portions of the examinations.  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), provides that “The  examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by  audio technology.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.530, subd. (a).)  “[S]ince section  2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee the right to record a mental  examination by audio technology, it implies the examinee may retain a copy of  the audio recording.”  (Randy's  Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837 (Randy’s  Trucking).)            The plain language of the statute allows Plaintiffs to use  audio technology to record the examinations without imposing any  limitations.  Moving Defendants cite no  legal authority that would allow the Court to limit Plaintiffs’ rights under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), based on the policy  considerations Moving Defendants advance.  The  Court denies Moving Defendants’ request for an order preventing Plaintiffs from  recording the entire examination, including cognitive screening and testing  portions.  Plaintiffs may make audio recordings of the entire examination. The audio recordings will be  subject to the June 14, 2022, stipulated protective order.  C.      Raw test data and test materials  In Randy's  Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, the trial court granted the  defendants’ motion for leave to obtain a mental examination of the  plaintiff conducted by a neuropsychologist.   (Id. at p. 824.)  The court  denied the defendants’ request to transfer the testing information to the  plaintiffs’ expert rather than the plaintiffs’ counsel.  (Id. at p. 832.)  Instead, the court ordered the  neuropsychologist to provide an audio recording of the examination and “‘all  raw data’” to the plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days after the examination  subject to a protective order.  (Ibid.)  The defendants petitioned for a writ of  mandate.  (Id. at p. 825.)  The  Court of Appeal denied writ relief.  (Randy’s  Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)  The court observed, “[t]here is no statutory  authority . . . precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of test  materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.”  (Id. at p. 834, citing Carpenter v.  Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 271.)  And “given the trial court’s broad discretion  in discovery matters, the trial court . . . has the power to order disclosure  of test materials and data to plaintiff’s attorney.”  (Id. at p. 835.)  Therefore, the trial court had discretion to  order the production to the plaintiffs’ counsel of the raw data and audio  recording.  (Id. at p. 837.)  The  defendants argued the trial court abused its discretion because the need to  protect the neuropsychologist from violating her ethical and professional  obligations outweighed the plaintiffs’ need for the raw data and audio  recording. (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.  837.)  However, the neuropsychologist in Randy’s  Trucking “did not explain why her ethical obligations would be violated if  a court ordered her to disclose the raw data and audio recording to plaintiffs’  attorney subject to a protective order.”   (Id. at pp. 837-838.)  The  Court of Appeal reasoned that, “[w]ithout the raw data and audio recording,  [the plaintiffs] cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data was collected,  determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist  on the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.”  (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91  Cal.App.5th at p. 838.)  Moreover, the  plaintiffs “should not be forced to retain an expert to gain access to these  materials and even if they do retain one, that expert can only assist the  attorney in preparing for cross-examination; to prepare and conduct an  effective cross-examination, ‘the attorney must themselves possess more than a  second-hand understanding of the information being scrutinized.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Here,  Moving Defendants’ neuropsychologist Dr. Conover has submitted a declaration  explaining that she “do[es] not permit audio recording by a third party of test  procedures of the examination due to [her] ethical and professional obligations  as a psychologist and neuropsychologist to preserve test security.”  Dr. Conover states that “the examinations use  various and very sensitive, copyrighted materials in the tests, not to mention  the effectiveness of the testing depending on the examinee not being familiar  with the tests used or the test process.”   She describes potential harms that could result from requiring the  disclosure of raw testing data to Plaintiffs’ counsel.  Moving  Defendants also cite Code of Regulations, Regulations, title 16, Section 1396.3  which provides:  “A psychologist shall not reproduce or describe in  public or in publications subject to general public distribution any  psychological tests or other assessment devices, the value of which depends in  whole or in part on the naiveté of the subject, in ways that might invalidate  the techniques; and shall limit access to such tests or devices to persons with  professional interests who will safeguard their use.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit.  16, § 1396.3.)  “While  this regulation requires psychologists to maintain test security, it does not  address a psychologist’s duty when a court order requires an attorney’s access  to psychological tests or devices, particularly subject to a protective order  that requires the parties to safeguard the use of the tests or devices.  Put another way, the regulation does not  prohibit a psychologist from producing tests or devices when ordered by a court  subject to a protective order.”  (Randy’s  Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 839.)  The  Court has carefully considered Dr. Conover's and Moving Defendants’ objections to the disclosure  of raw testing data to Plaintiffs’ counsel.   The Court concludes that Plaintiffs’ legitimate need for the raw testing  data and materials (see Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th  at p. 838) outweighs the concerns about maintaining test  security – particularly where, as here, a protective order is in effect. The  Court exercises its discretion and orders release of the raw testing data and  materials to Plaintiff’s counsel subject to the protective order.  (See id. at p. 842.)  D.  List of tests                    Plaintiffs ask the Court to order Moving Defendants to provide  an “exact” list of the tests their expert will use, arguing that a list of  potential tests, some of which may not be used, violates “the intent and spirit  of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 2032.320.”   The Court finds that the list of potential tests sufficiently complies  with Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 and allows Plaintiffs and their  attorneys to consider in advance of the examination whether the proposed tests  are inappropriate, irrelevant, or abusive.            The potential tests are listed on pages 2-3 of Moving  Defendants’ motions.            E.       Dates of  examinations  The  examinations will take place on mutually agreeable dates within 40 days of the  hearing on the motions.  If Moving  Defendants need additional time to find a psychologist who will comply with the  Court’s orders, they may file a stipulation or ex parte application to continue the deadline  for conducting the examinations.  CONCLUSION            The Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the motion for  leave to conduct Plaintiff Nicole  Triplett’s mental examination filed by Defendants City of Los Angeles, SMG  Management, LLC, SMG Management I, LLC, SMG Management II, LLC, Steve Lozano, Dolores  Martinez-Reifer, and Michelle Cassida.  The  Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the motion for leave to conduct  Plaintiff Latasha Nash’s mental examination filed by Defendants City of Los  Angeles, SMG Management, LLC, SMG Management I, LLC, SMG Management II, LLC,  Steve Lozano, Dolores Martinez-Reifer, and Michelle Cassida.   The  Court ORDERS Moving Defendants (1) to allow Plaintiffs Nicole Triplett and Latasha Nash to make audio recordings of the entire examination and (2)  to produce the raw test data and test materials to Plaintiffs’ counsel.  The audio recordings and production of data  and materials will be subject to the previously-entered protective order.  Michelle  Conover, Ph.D., whose specialty is neuropsychology, or another appropriate psychologist retained by Moving Defendants will conduct the  examinations.  The  examinations will take place within 40 days of the date of the hearing on the  motions.  Moving Defendants may request a  continuance of the deadline if they need additional time to find another  psychologist to perform the examinations.  The  potential tests are listed on pages 2-3 of Moving Defendants’ motions.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.