  Case Number:  22STCV01204    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  73 9/26/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JAMES CHEUNG v. CHARLES CHEUNG, et
al. (22STCV01204)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  David King (King
Cheng Miller & Jin, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Kousha
Berokim (Berokim Law)
 
PLAINTIFF’S motion for AN ORDER (1)
GRANTING ISSUE AND/OR EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG AND
PINNACLELGS, INC., AND (2) MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG,
PINNACLELGS, INC. AND THEIR ATTORNEY (filed on 08/21/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Granting
Issue and/or Evidentiary Sanctions against Charles Cheung and Pinnaclelgs, Inc.
and monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 12,
2022, Plaintiff James Cheung (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Charles Cheung, Wenjun Long and PinnacleLGS, Inc. Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts
causes of action for: (1) Dissolution of Partnership; (2) Accounting; (3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Fraud; and (5) Breach of Contract.  
 
The Complaint alleges that this case is “about
the Dissolution
of a Fifty/Fifty (50/50) Partnership and about an Accounting arising out of the
Dissolution of that Partnership. The Partnership started off as a series of
Joint Ventures that involved acquiring improved real properties that have the
land value potential and that are to be demolished and developed into new
multi-family projects. Plaintiff was to fund the down payment, and Defendant Charles
Cheung was to fund some down payment and the monthly mortgages of the Purchase
Money Loans.” (Compl., ¶ 7.)
 
On March 16,
2022, a Cross-Complaint was filed by Pinnacle Wilton LLC, Pinnacle Normandie
LLC, Pinnacle LGS, Inc., Charles Cheung and Wejun Long against Cross-Defendants
BB Wells Investments, Inc. and James Cheung. The Cross-Complaint asserts causes
of action for: (1) Usury and (2) Quiet Title.
 
On August 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Sanctions against Defendants Charles
Cheung and PinnacleLGS, Inc. (“Defendants”) seeking:
·      
An order granting issue sanctions against Charles and PinnacleLGS,
precluding them from presenting any evidence in opposition to the claims being
asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint or any evidence in support of their
Cross-Complaint, and designating the following facts as established: 
o    James and Charles were engaged in a joint
venture. 
o   That the loan
made by James Cheung alleged in Cross-Complainants’ CrossComplaint was made in
the course of and in furtherance of a partnership and joint venture between
James Cheung and Charles Cheung, and is not usurious, and/or 
o   Charles
breached his fiduciary duties to James in connection with their joint venture.
·      
In the alternative, an order granting evidentiary sanctions
against Charles and PinnacleLGS, precluding them from (a) introducing at the
time of trial any evidence in support of their affirmative defenses to
Plaintiff’s Complaint; (b) introducing any evidence to rebut the claims being
asserted against them in Plaintiff’s Complaint; or (c) introducing any evidence
in support of their Cross-Complaint. 
·      
Awarding Plaintiff monetary sanctions against Charles, PinnacleLGS,
and their attorney, Kousha Berokim, jointly and severally, in the amount of $6,300.00
for their misuse of the discovery process, as well as enforcing the prior
sanctions award of $9,000.
·      
Procedural background
o   On March 26,
2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s six discovery motions against Charles and
PinnacleLGS, requiring that: 
§  (a) Charles
serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One, and (ii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, within thirty days, and pay
$500.00 in monetary sanctions. Charles and his attorney have ignored the
Court’s order. 
§  (b)
PinnacleLGS serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Demand for Production
of Documents, Set One, (ii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, (iii) Requests
for Admission, Set One, and (iv) Form Interrogatories, Set Two, within thirty
days, and pay $4,000.00 in sanctions. PinnacleLGS and its attorney have also
ignored the Court’s Order. 
o   Charles,
PinnacleLGS and their counsel, Kousha Berokim, ignored the March 26, 2024,
Court Order, thereby requiring James to file his first motion for terminating,
issue, and/or evidentiary sanction on May 6, 2026
o   On June 26, 2024, the same date that the opposition to James’ motion for
sanctions was due, Charles and PinnacleLGS tried to moot the terminating
sanctions motion by serving further responses, which remained deficient.
o   The parties met and conferred regarding the purportedly deficient
responses, Charles and PinnacleLGS missed several deadlines to serve further
responses to requests for production.
·      
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have
not complied with the Court’s March 26, 2024, Order because Defendants’ further
responses are deficient 
·      
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 permits a
court to award issue, evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions against any party
that disobeys a court order. 
·      
Plaintiff has incurred $6,300.00 in legal fees in bringing this
Motion
Defendants filed an opposition, arguing:

·      
Defendants further responses served on June
26, 2024 are code compliant. Defendants have complied with the Court’s orders. 
·      
Plaintiff’s Motion suggests that the
June 26, 2024 responses were deficient, but does not meet its burden to
establish such deficiencies, let alone establish good cause for the extreme and
dispositive reliefs the Motion seeks in evidentiary and issue sanctions. 
·      
Plaintiff’s Motion misrepresents and
misquotes the text of his requests
·      
The sought dispositive evidentiary
sanctions do not relate to, and are not justified, by the alleged discovery
deficiencies
·      
Sanctions should be imposed against
Plaintiff for bringing this motion 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining that
Defendants’ further responses are not code compliant. 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
A misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).)  A misuse of the discovery process also includes disobeying a
court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) A
court may impose issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or monetary sanctions against
a party engaging in misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030.) Where an issue sanction is imposed, “designated facts shall be taken
as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party
adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (b).) An issue sanction may also involve “any party engaging in
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) An evidence sanction
involves “an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).)  
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.)
“[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  (Ibid.)
Where discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)   
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for issue and/or evidentiary sanctions
against Defendants on the grounds that Defendants failed to comply with the
Court’s March 26, 2024 Order. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions.  
On March 26, 2024 the Court granted Plaintiff’s requests for
further discovery responses and granted monetary sanctions against Defendants. The
Court ordered “compliance with discovery orders and payment of sanctions (total
$4,500 against both Defendants and their counsel) to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 days.” (Court’s 03/26/24 Minute Order, p. 5.) 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his first motion for terminating,
issue and/or evidentiary sanctions, and monetary sanctions, against Defendants
for failure to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 order. In Plaintiff’s
motion, he asserted that Defendants had failed to serve any further discovery
responses in violation of the Court’s order. 
On June 26, 2024, Defendants served further discovery responses.
On July 10, 2024, the Court ruled that because Defendants had
served further responses, and without taking a position as to whether those
further responses complied with the Court’s March 26, 2024, Order, the Court
denied Plaintiff’s motion for terminating, issue, and/or evidentiary sanctions,
but did award monetary sanctions of $4,500 against Defendants and their counsel
jointly and severally. (Court’s 07/10/24 Minute Order, pp. 6-7.) The parties subsequently met and conferred
regarding the purportedly deficient responses. (King Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants agreed to provide further responses. (Ibid.) On
August 19, 2024, Defendants served further responses to interrogatories and
requests for admission, but not requests for production. (Ibid.) Defendants
have not served further responses to the requests for production. (Ibid.)
Now, in Plaintiff’s instant motion for sanctions, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants have still failed to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order
because Defendants have not served code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s
requests for production. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ further responses to
the requests for production served on June 26, 2024 were not code compliant and
that Defendants have failed to supplement these responses. 
In opposition, Defendants argue the motion should be denied
because Defendants have complied with
the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order. Defendants assert that the further responses to Plaintiff’s
requests for production served on June 26, 2024 are code compliant. 
The Court notes that since the parties dispute whether Defendants’
further responses are code compliant, Plaintiff should have filed a motion to
compel further responses. In determining whether Defendants’ further responses
are deficient, the
Court is required to analyze each objection made to determine whether valid
objections were made and this type of analysis requires a separate statement. Motions to compel further responses must
be accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)
The substantial rights of the parties are affected when there is no separate
statement. Here, Plaintiff did not file a separate statement. Instead, the
parties’ papers reference some of the requests and purportedly deficient responses.
However, Defendants assert in their opposition that Plaintiff’s motion failed
to accurately cite the requests.  A
properly prepared Separate Statement enables both the parties and the Court to
accurately analyze relevance and objections. Therefore, the Court cannot
determine at this time whether Defendants’
further responses to requests for production complied with the Court’s March
26, 2024. Since the Court cannot determine whether Defendants have failed to
comply with the Court’s order, the Court
does not find that issue, evidentiary or monetary sanctions are appropriate at
this time. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Granting
Issue and/or Evidentiary Sanctions against Charles Cheung and Pinnaclelgs, Inc.
and monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 

 II. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Granting Issue and/or Evidentiary
Sanctions against Charles Cheung and Pinnaclelgs, Inc. and monetary sanctions
is DENIED. 