  Case Number:  22STCV31531    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 6,
2024

MOTION
TO DISMISS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV31531

 



MP:  


Vahe Avedian, Susanna Avedian, and
  Ghevon Avedian (Specially Appearing Defendants)




RP:  


Rhonda Koch-Strauss (Plaintiff) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rhonda Koch-Strauss
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Vahe Avedian, Susanna Avedian, and
Ghevon Avedian (Defendants). Plaintiff and Defendants are neighbors, and this
suit arises from a June 17, 2022 altercation between them. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants caused her unlawful arrest by the Crescenta Valley Sheriff’s deputies.  Plaintiff asserts the arrest occurred after plaintiff
drove to Defendants’ house and asked them to stop playing music. Plaintiff
represents herself in this action. The Complaint states causes of action for
(1) Wrongful Imprisonment, (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
(3) Malicious Prosecution, and (4) Slander. 
 
On May
17, 2024, the Court granted a motion by Defendants to quash the service of the
subpoenas upon each of them. The Court found the initial proofs of service had
been struck as deficient and that Plaintiff’s subsequent proofs of service
suffered the same defects. 
 
Defendants
now move to dismiss this action with prejudice on grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to properly serve them within two years of the Complaint being filed.
Plaintiff has filed no opposition to this motion. Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The court
on its own motion or on motion of the defendant may dismiss an action under C.C.P.
§§ 583.410-583.430 for delay in prosecution if the action has not been brought
to trial or conditionally settled within two years after the action was
commenced against the defendant. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1340 (a).)
 
In ruling
on a motion to dismiss, the court may consider the court file, diligence in
seeking effective service of process, the extent to which parties engaged in
any settlement negotiations, diligence in pursuing discovery, nature and
complexity of the case, pendency of other litigation based on common facts,
nature of any extensions of time or other delay, condition of the court's
calendar, whether the interests of justice are best served by dismissal, and
any other facts or circumstances relevant to fair determination. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1342(e).)
 
"In
order to avoid a dismissal for delay in prosecution, the plaintiff must show a
reasonable excuse for such delay; once that showing is made, the trial court
must consider all pertinent factors including those under rule [3.1432] and any
prejudice to the defendant from the delay, before deciding whether to dismiss.
[Citations.] However, where there has been a protracted and unexplained delay
in prosecution, the defendant need not make an affirmative showing of
prejudice. Prejudice is inferred from the delay itself. [Citation.]" (Wagner
v. Rios (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 608, 611-12.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
Complaint is subject to dismissal without prejudice. Plaintiff’s action was
filed September 27, 2022 and service has yet to be effectuated. The Court
struggles to find good cause for the Plaintiff’s failure to properly serve the
Defendants’ given Plaintiff has not opposed this motion.   As a result, she has not carried her burden
to demonstrate a reasonable excuse for the delay in prosecution. Nor can any
reasonable excuse be gleaned from any previous filing or appearance. Plaintiff’s
failure to rectify the defects in her initial service and her failure to
respond to Defendants’ motions to quash indicate to this Court that Plaintiff
has abandoned this action.  However, the
Court is aware that Plaintiff is self-represented and may have had reason  for failing to oppose the motion.  As such, a dismissal without prejudice would
not be in the interest of justice; nonetheless a dismissal without prejudice
would be appropriate.
 
Accordingly, the motion to
dismiss Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED without prejudice.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Vahe Avedian, Susanna
Avedian, and Ghevon Avedian’s Motion to Dismiss came
on regularly for hearing on December 6, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO DISMISS PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT IS GRANTED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
CLERK TO
GIVE TO NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 6, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 