 Case Number:  24NNCV01174    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01174

 



MP:  


D.S. (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


The City of Burbank (Non-Party
  Respondent) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is
requesting oral argument on this matter as to the limited issue of whether the
City of Burbank should provide the notice mandated by CCP §1983.5(h) on behalf
of Plaintiff as the City of Burbank is the sole party in possession of the
information necessary to comply with CCP §1983.5(h).  Such an order is based on CCP §1983.5(b).  See discussion herein. 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
D.S., by
and through his guardian ad litem Michelle S. (Plaintiff), brings this action
against Burbank Unified School District (BUSD) and Does 1-50. Plaintiff, a
minor, alleges he was attacked by fellow student John Roe (Roe) at John Muir
Middle School. Plaintiff alleges BUSD negligently ignored reports of Roe’s
prior aggressive behavior. Plaintiff states he sustained serious injury in
connection with the attack. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion by Plaintiff to compel the Burbank Police Department
(BPD) to comply with a June 12, 2024 deposition subpoena. Plaintiff seeks the
police report to ascertain the identity of Roe and potential witnesses to the
assault. The City of Burbank (Burbank) responded to this subpoena, stating it
would not comply as the subpoena failed to include a Notice to Consumer are
required by C.C.P.§ 1985.3. Burbank has opposed this motion on those same
grounds. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The
service of a deposition notice, pursuant to C.C.P. § 2025.240, is effective to
require any party deponent to attend, testify, and produce materials for
inspection at a deposition. (C.C.P. § 2025.280(a).) To require the attendance
and testimony of a non-party deponent, as well as his or her production of any
document or tangible thing for inspection and copying, the party seeking
discovery must serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena, pursuant C.C.P. §
2020.010, et seq. (C.C.P. §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); See also Sears,
Roebuck & Co. v. National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by C.C.P.
§§ 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried out by way of subpoena].)
 
If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, the party
seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production. (C.C.P. § 2025.480(a).) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. (C.C.P. §
2025.480(i).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Notice to Consumer 
 
The basis for Burbank’s
objection to the subpoena is Plaintiff’s failure to provide notice to potential
“consumers” as per C.C.P. § 1985.3. In making this motion, Plaintiff argues
that C.C.P. § 1985.3 does not apply to requests for police records because the BPD
is not one of the entities listed under C.C.P. § 1985.3(a)(1). This argument is
unpersuasive. 
 
As Burbank correctly points
out, the consumer notice requirements apply to all requests for “personal
information” tendered to a state agency. (See C.C.P. § 1985.4) The term
“personal information” in this contexts refers to any information that is
maintained by an agency that identifies or describes an individual, including,
but not limited to, his or her name, social security number, physical
description, home address, home telephone number, education, financial matters,
and medical or employment history. (C.C.P. § 1798.24) A “consumer,” in this
context, means any natural person. (C.C.P. § 1985.4.)
 
Plaintiff undoubtedly seeks
the personal information of each person identified in the police report. The
above statutes are clear that Plaintiff is required to provide notice to those
persons when serving his subpoena. For obvious reasons, this was not done here.
Plaintiff correctly points out that he cannot provide notice to consumers whose
identity he does not know. In such instances, C.C.P. § 1983.5(h) provides guidance.
C.C.P. § 1983.5(h) provides:
 
Upon good cause shown and provided that the rights of witnesses
and consumers are preserved, a subpoenaing party shall be entitled to obtain an
order shortening the time for service of a subpoena duces tecum or waiving the
requirements of subdivision (b) where due diligence by the subpoenaing party
has been shown.
 
In other words, a party
issuing a subpoena can petition the Court to waive the consumer notice
requirement upon demonstrating that they have no other way to learn the
identity of the person to be noticed. In order to do so, the issuing party
would need to demonstrate due diligence in otherwise obtaining the necessary
information. Here, Plaintiff’s motion does not demonstrate due diligence. The
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel is entirely silent as to other efforts to
obtain the identity of Roe and other witnesses who may be identified in the
police report.  Given Plaintiff has
failed to demonstrate due diligence, the Court finds waiver of the consumer
notice requirement is, as of yet, unwarranted.
 
In the alternative, CCP
1985.3(b) states, “Prior to the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum for
the production of personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or
cause to be served on the consumer whose records are being sought a
copy of the subpoena duces tecum, of the affidavit supporting the issuance of
the subpoena …[.] (emphasis added).” 
Since the information sought to give notice is the information sought by
the Plaintiff, perhaps the City of Burbank should provide the necessary notice
as the information is in their sole possession. 
Section 1985.3(b) can be met if the Plaintiff serves the consumer or causes
the consumer to be served.   This
requirement can be met with an order issued by this Court to the City of
Burbank which has sole possession of the information necessary to comply with
CCP 1985.3(h) to serve the notice requirement. 
This properly balances the needs of the Plaintiff to obtain discoverable
information and comply with the statute, the requirement to protect the consumer,
and the desire of the City of Burbank not to release information without
compliance with the statute.
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel is DENIED without prejudice such that the Plaintiff may petition this
Court to have the City of Burbank provide statutory notice or to supplement
Plaintiff counsel’s declaration concerning good cause to waive the requirement.

 
CPRA
 
Burbank argues that the
records sought by Plaintiff are subject to exemption from disclosure under the
California Public Records Act (CPRA). This argument is irrelevant to his motion
because Plaintiff has made no public records request pursuant to CPRA.
Plaintiff’s demand for information took the form of a deposition subpoena in a
civil action, not a public information request. Thus, the provisions of the CPRA
discussed by Plaintiff and Burbank were never triggered. Regardless, disclosure
of police reports under the CPRA is an issue which the Court has seen with
great frequency in recent months. As such, the Court finds further discussion could
be illuminating. 
 
Gov. Code § 7923.605 provides:

 
Notwithstanding Section 7923.600, a state or local law enforcement
agency shall disclose the names and addresses of persons involved in, or
witnesses other than confidential informants to, the incident, the description
of any property involved, the date, time, and location of the incident, all
diagrams, statements of the parties involved in the incident, the statements of
all witnesses, other than confidential informants, to the victims of an
incident, or an authorized representative thereof, an insurance carrier against
which a claim has been or might be made, and any person suffering bodily injury
or property damage or loss, as the result of the incident caused by arson,
burglary, fire, explosion, larceny, robbery, carjacking, vandalism, vehicle
theft, or a crime as defined by subdivision (b) of Section 13951, unless the
disclosure would endanger either of the following: (1) The safety of a witness
or other person involved in the investigation. (2) The successful completion of
the investigation or a related investigation.
 
Gov. Code § 7923.600
defines an exemption to compelled production under Gov. Code § 7923.605. This
section provides in relevant part: 
 
[T]his division does not require the disclosure of records of
complaints to, or investigations conducted by, or records of intelligence
information or security procedures of, the office of the Attorney General and
the Department of Justice, the Office of Emergency Services and any state or
local police agency, or any investigatory or security files compiled by any
other state or local police agency, or any investigatory or security files
compiled by any other state or local agency for correctional, law enforcement,
or licensing purposes. 
 
In other words, the CPRA
does not require law enforcement agencies to turn over the entirety of their
investigative reports when a request is made. However, law enforcement agencies
are still required to provide certain identifying information to the victim of
a crime when a request has been made under the CPRA. The only exception to this
required disclosure is where it would endanger the success of an investigation
or the safety of an individual being investigated. 
 
If Plaintiff’s request had
been made under the CPRA, Burbank would be required to demonstrate that
disclosure of Roe’s personal information would endanger the successful
completion of an investigation. In Williams v. Superior Court, the
California Supreme Court held that that personal information is only exempt
from disclosure under Gov. Code § 7923.605 when “…the prospect of enforcement
proceedings is concrete and definite.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 337, 341, citing Uribe v. Howie (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d
194, 212.) The existence of a concrete and definite enforcement proceeding must
be supported by some evidentiary showing. This showing can be relatively
straightforward and based on testimony of the investigators involved. For
example, in Rackauckas v. Superior Court, the California Court of Appeal
held that the testimony of investigators alone was sufficient to establish the
existence of enforcement proceedings. (Rackauckas v. Superior Court
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 169, 178.)
 
Here, Burbank’s opposition
does not aver to any investigation in connection with the Roe’s assault on
Plaintiff. Burbank instead states, “…given the confidentiality of juvenile
proceedings, the City is unable to determine whether there are any pending
criminal matters related to this lawsuit.” (Mot. p. 5, Aguado Decl. ¶ 3.)
This statement would not suffice to substantiate Burbank’s objection under the
CPRA. Just because the Burbank City Attorney’s Office doesn’t prosecute minors
does not mean Burbank is without any means of determining whether there was/is
any investigation related to this incident.  For example, there may have been a referral to
the District Attorney’s Office for a juvenile petition.   The petition request may have been denied or
a petition filed.  The Burbank Police
Department would be aware of any such filing decisions.
 
Conclusion

 
In short,
the Court finds Plaintiff has not sufficiently demonstrated due diligence in obtaining
the identity of Roe such that the consumer notice requirement should be waived.
Burbank’s argument that they were correct to refuse production under the CPRA
is misguided, as Plaintiff made no public information request.   The Plaintiff may seek to have the City of
Burbank provide the notice requirement mandated by statute as that entity
solely has the information for which Plaintiff needs to provide such notice,
and the balancing of all the parties interests and the need for discovery may
best be made with notice to involved parties rather than the Court finding that
Plaintiff has exercised due diligence and waived the requirement.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
D.S.’s Motion to Compel
Compliance with Deposition Subpoena came on regularly
for hearing on December 6, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA IS DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
THE CITY
OF BURBANK TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 6, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 