 Case Number:  23BBCV02243    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  A DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02243

 



MP:  


CP Custom Woodworks, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Simon Moshe (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Simon
Moshe (Plaintiff) brings this action against CP
Custom Woodworks, Inc. (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached
an oral agreement between the two concerning a joint business venture. Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) states causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Tortious Interference with Economic Relationship, and (3)
Accounting. 
 
Defendant now demurs
to the first two causes of action on grounds that Plaintiff has failed to
allege sufficient facts. Defendant also moves to strike various portions of the
SAC as irrelevant and also moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and motion to strike and Defendant
replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion to
Strike 
 
Motions to
strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) 
 
The grounds for
a motion to strike are governed by C.C.P. § 436. This code section provides the
Court with discretion to strike out material from a pleading (1) where it
appears that the matter is “irrelevant, false, or improper” or (2) where the
pleading is not “drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436(a)-(b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (C.C.P. §
437.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. The
Court notes that no meet and confer declaration was filed in connection with
this demurrer. Regardless, failure to meet and confer is not grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer, or grant or deny a motion to strike. (C.C.P. §§
430.41(a)(4); C.C.P. 435.5(a)(4).)
 
First COA -
Breach of Contract – Sustained
with 20 days’ Leave to Amend
 
To state a cause of action for breach
of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) An oral
contract may be pled generally as to its effect because it is rarely possible
to allege the exact wording. (Khoury v. Maly's of Calif. (1993) 14
Cal.app.4th 612, 616.)
 
The main thrust of Defendant’s demurrer
is that Plaintiff has failed to allege the substantive terms of their oral
contract. Defendant provides a laundry list of sample contract terms which are
not alleged in the SAC (i.e. Termination Clauses, Payment Periods, etc.).
Defendant argues these omissions are fatal because Plaintiff is required to
plead “the substance of its relevant terms.” (Dmr. p. 7, citing to Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993.) The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive and improperly conflates the standards
of pleading for oral contract with those of written contracts. The only legal
authority Defendant offers in support of his argument is the aforementioned Heritage
Pacific, which is inapposite.  
 
Heritage Pacific concerned a cause of action for fraud by a home loan
assignee, Heritage, as against the borrower. (Id. at 983.) The trial
court sustained a demurrer by the lender, on grounds that Heritage had not
sufficiently pled facts establishing that the assignee intended to transfer the
ancillary right to a tort claim. (Id. at 992.) The trial also ordered
that Heritage must attach the written assignment agreement to its pleadings. (Id.)
On appeal, Heritage argued that the trial court’s requirement that Heritage
produce the assignment agreement was an improper weighing of the evidence. (Id.
at 993.) Despite the fact that a written assignment agreement existed, Heritage
argued that it only needed to plead the ultimate facts of the assignment to
proceed with its fraud cause of action. The Court of Appeal confirmed the trial
court’s ruling, stating that Heritage had neither attached the agreement nor
pled “the substance of its relevant terms” such that the fraud action was
pleaded with the requisite specificity. (Id. citing McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489) 
 
Defendant’s reliance on Heritage
Pacific is misplaced. Defendant’s quotation to Heritage Pacific omits
crucial context and thereby misrepresents its holding. The entire quote in Heritage
Pacific is as follows: 
 
“A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out
verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint
and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In
order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the
substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a
careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]”
 
(Id. [emphasis added].)
 
Viewing the entire quotation in context
makes clear that the “substance of relevant terms” requirement is only
discussed in the context of a written agreement. The court in Heritage
Pacific provided this quotation to clarify that where a written agreement
exists outlining specific terms, the complaining party must either attach the
agreement or specifically plead its terms. Here, there is no written agreement
and no reason to apply the stricter pleading requirements suggested by
Defendant. 
 
Defendant appears to overlook or omit an
entire body of cases that discuss the specificity required for an oral
contract.  For example, in Khoury
the Court of Appeal discussed that an oral contract may be pleaded generally as
to its effect because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words. (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; see also, Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635, 640.) 
As such, the demurrer will not be granted on these grounds; however, as
noted below the pleading is nonetheless deficient.
 
While Plaintiff may have satisfied the
more general pleading requirements of an oral contract, his allegation of a
“joint venture” complicates the Court’s analysis. To sufficiently plead the
existence of a joint venture, Plaintiff must allege (1) a joint interest in a
common business; (2) with an understanding to share profits and losses; and (3)
a right to joint control. (Jacobs v. Locatelli (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
317.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has pled no factual
allegations in support of the claim that he and Defendant were in a joint
venture. Plaintiff pleadings do not allege a common business, rather they
indicate that Plaintiff and Defendant each maintained their own businesses.
Further, Plaintiff does not plead any sharing of profits/losses, only that he
is entitled to a percentage of clients he brings to Defendant. Lastly, no facts
are present as to joint control because, as previously stated, it has not been
alleged that Plaintiff and Defendant managed a common business.  
 
In short, Plaintiff has pled sufficient
facts as to the existence of an oral contract but has not pled generally pled
its effect of creating a joint venture. Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage – Sustained with 20 days’
Leave to Amend 
 
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Crown Imports,
LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404 [citations,
brackets, and quotation marks omitted].)
 
Further, “the alleged interference must
have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself.
For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be unlawful, that
is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law,
or other determinable legal standard.” (Id. [citation, ellipsis, and
quotation marks omitted].) 
 
Defendant demurs to this cause of action
arguing that Plaintiff has not alleged any independent wrongful conduct.
Defendant states the only wrongful conduct alleged in Plaintiff’s SAC is the
breach of contract itself. The Court finds this argument persuasive. The
California Supreme Court has repeatedly held that breach of a contract, without
more, cannot serve as “wrongful conduct” in support of a tort claim. (Drink
Tank Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th
528, 532 [citations omitted].) Here, Plaintiff’s SAC is bereft of any
allegations of Defendant’s wrongful conduct outside of the alleged breach of
oral contract. 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition sidesteps this
argument completely. Plaintiff presents no authority that the breach of
contract legally constitutes an independent wrong, nor does he argue that the
SAC currently alleges a wrong outside of breach. Instead, Plaintiff states: 
 
Even if a breach of contract does not constitute an independent wrong
giving rise to a claim for intentional interference with economic relationship,
plaintiff can allege an independent wrong – namely breach of fiduciary duties. 
 
(Opp. p. 7.) 
 
First, Plaintiff’s “even if” statement
is entirely unsupported by authority or argument to the contrary. Plaintiff’s
bare contention that breaches of contract can serve as an independent wrongful
act has been shown to be an incorrect understanding of the law. Second,
Plaintiff’s statement that he may be able to allege breach of fiduciary duty
does not speak to the sufficiency of the SAC and thus has no bearing on this
demurrer. 
 
Seemingly acceding that something
further must be alleged, Plaintiff’s opposition requests the Court grant leave
to amend so that Plaintiff may state a claim for Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
Plaintiff reasons that a breach of fiduciary duty may serve as independent
wrongful conduct under Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman,
Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139. The Court finds this
argument misunderstands the holding in Tri-Growth. 
 
In Tri-Growth, a real estate
development group brought suit against one of its investors. (Tri-Growth
supra, 216 Cal.App.3d at 1145-1148.) The investor, an attorney, has
previously provided legal services to other members of the development group. (Id.)
The development group alleged that the attorney had used confidential
information obtained as a member of the group to encourage the law firm in
which he was partner to undercut the development group’s bid for a plot of
land. (Id.) The Court of Appeal affirmed that the attorney could be
found to have breached his fiduciary duty as both a limited partner of the
development group and legal counsel to individual members of the group. (Id.
at 1151-1153.) 
 
From the Court’s reading of Tri-Growth,
it does not appear the considerations of fiduciary breach and interference with
prospective advantage are directly related. The section of the opinion which
discusses the cause of action for interference with prospective economic
advantage contains no mention of fiduciary duty. The Tri-Growth court
instead concluded that, “plaintiffs presented facts asserting defendants
acquired and used the confidential information from Tri–Growth which allowed
the law firm to offer an earlier closing date and ensure its offer rather than
Tri–Growth's was accepted.” (Id. at 1154.) This appears to be the Tri-Growth
court finding the plaintiff had alleged independently wrongful conduct by
virtue of misappropriating information he obtained as a fiduciary. While the Tri-Growth
defendant’s alleged conduct may have derived from his position as a
fiduciary, the holding of Tri-Growth is not that any breach of
fiduciary duty constitutes independent wrongful conduct. 
 
In short, Plaintiff is required to
allege facts speaking to Defendant’s independent wrongful conduct. It is not
enough that Plaintiff allege Defendant’s breach of contract or breach of fiduciary
duty. Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Motion to
Strike and Statute of Frauds Addendum 
 
As the Court has sustained the demurrer
to both cause of action with leave to amend, Defendant’s motion to strike is
MOOT. 
 
Lastly, the Court addresses Defendant’s
argument regarding the statute of frauds should it arise on subsequent
demurrer. Defendant argues that their demurrer to the first cause of action
should be sustained on grounds that the oral contract is invalidated by the
statute of frauds. Defendant contends this claim is barred by the statute of
frauds because the agreement alleged “involves continuous revenue sharing
extending indefinitely and lacks a termination clause.” (Dmr. at p. 7.) The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive. 
 
Civil Code § 1624(a)(1) applies to an
agreement "that by its terms is not to be performed within a year from the
making thereof." This provision is interpreted "literally and
narrowly" to mean an oral contract "where by its very terms it cannot
be performed within a year from the date it is made." (Plumlee v. Poag
(1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 541, 548.) In other words, "[o]nly those contracts
which expressly preclude performance within one year are unenforceable." (Id.)

 
Here, there is nothing alleged about the
terms of the oral contract that preclude performance within one year. The fact
that the contract ultimately spanned more than one year does not mean it cannot
be performed within a year from the date it is made. Further, Plaintiff has
also alleged full performance of his services, which "creates an
estoppel" to the defense of statute of frauds. (Secrest v. Security
National Mortgage Loan Trust 2002-2 (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 544, 556.)
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
CP Custom Woodworks,
Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on
regularly for hearing on December 6, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AND SECOND CAUSES OF
ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT. 
 
DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 