 Case Number:  23BBCV00117    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
QUASH

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00117

 



MP:  


Jonathan
  Lee (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Zane
  and Gina Cazares (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jonathan Lee
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges he was injured by virtue of Defendants’ negligent operation
of a motor vehicle. 
 
Before the Court is
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash 11 deposition subpoenas issued to Plaintiff’s
medical providers. Plaintiff contends he never received notice of these
subpoenas, as required by by C.C.P. § 1985.3, and thus could not timely object.
Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1987.1 provides, “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other order as may
be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” 
C.C.P.
§1985.3(b) states:
 
“Prior to
the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum for the production of personal
records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be served on the
consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum, of
the affidavit supporting the issuance of the subpoena, if any, and of the
notice described in subdivision (e), and proof of service as indicated in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (c). This service shall be made as follows:
 
(1) To
the consumer personally, or at his or her last known address …”
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Subpoenas 
 
Plaintiff’s motion requests
the following 11 subpoenas be quashed: 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to USC Verdugo Hills
Hospital 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to USC Verdugo Hills
Hospital (Billing) 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to USC Verdugo Hills
Hospital (Radiology) 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to UCLA Health/Toluca
Lake Health Center (Radiology) 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to Doheny Eye Center
UCLA 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to UCLA Burbank Primary
& Specialty Care 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to Sherman Oaks Hospital
– Emergency Room 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to Sherman Oaks Hospital
– Emergency Room (Business Office) 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to Sherman Oaks
Emergency Medical Associates 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to Sherman Oaks Hospital
– Emergency Room (Radiology) 
 
·        
Defendants’ Subpoena to Dr. Joan Borris LFMT
 
Relevant Facts 
 
On September 9, 2024, Defendants issued the 11 subpoenas to
Plaintiff’s medical providers with a production date of October 10, 2024.
(Aziev Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) A review of each of the 11 subpoenas reveals
they are all accompanied by a “Proof of Service of Notice to Consumer” (Aziev
Decl. Exh. 1 at pgs. 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35, 39, 43, 47, 51, 55.) Each “Proof
of Service of Notice to Consumer” reflects that West Coast Legal employee
Christy King (King) served the notices by mail on Khail A. Parris at 43364 10th
St. West Lancaster, CA 93534 on September 9, 2024. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff does not argue these notices were never sent,
instead he argues they were never received. Plaintiff ‘s counsel states he
never received notice of these subpoenas, and only discovered them on October
7, 2024. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 4.) Though it is not clearly stated in his
declarations, it appears Plaintiff’s counsel only became aware of the subpoena
because one of the served providers, Dr. Joan Boris, reached out to him.
(Reply. p. 2.) 
 
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendants’
counsel regarding the subpoena to Dr. Boris. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 2.)
Defendants then forwarded the proofs of service for each of the eleven
subpoenas. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 2, Stevens Decl. Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s counsel
maintained that they never received any of the subpoenas and requested
Defendants re-notice them, a request to which Defendants’ counsel declined. (Id.)

 
Defendants attach a number of declarations by West Coast
Legal Services’ employees in opposition. These declarations demonstrate that
the “Proof of Service of Notice to Consumer” was prepared by King and then
given to Don Russi (Russi) for mailing. (King Decl. ¶¶ 2-4; Russi Decl. ¶¶
2-4.) 
 
On November 4, 2024, Plaintiff states his counsel received
a phone call from Russi informing copies of the subpoenas served on Plaintiff’s
counsel were returned as undeliverable. (Reply, Bibian Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)
Russi confirmed that the address for service was correct on the served copies
and that this was not the first time something served on Plaintiff’s counsel
was marked for return as undeliverable. (Id.) Russi then emailed a
returned envelope to Plaintiff’s counsel, stating “Attached is a copy of the
outside of the returned envelope we recently sent to your office along with a
copy of the contents. As you can see, it is addressed correctly, and the
postage amount is correct as well.” (Reply. Exh. 4.) The returned envelope
appears to be for the subpoena addressed to Dr. Igor Boyarsky of Quest
Diagnostics (Reply. Exh. 5.) It is unclear whether the other ten subpoenas were
returned as undeliverable. 
 
Discussion 
 
Despite the lengthy briefing of this motion by both
parties, the Court finds this dispute is rather simple in nature. Plaintiff’s
sole argument in moving to quash these eleven subpoenas is that they were not
served on him as required by C.C.P. § 1985.3. C.C.P. § 1985.3(b) requires a
party serving a third-party deposition subpoena to also serve notice to the
consumer whose records are sought. C.C.P. § 1985.3(b)(2) requires this notice
be given 10 days prior to the date of production specified in the subpoenas. As
such, the question before the Court is whether Defendants properly served
notice of these eleven subpoenas on Plaintiff. 
 
Evidence Code § 641 provides, “A letter correctly addressed
and properly mailed is presumed to have been received in the ordinary course of
mail.” Evidence Code § 604 clarifies that this presumption, as with any
evidentiary presumption, may be rebutted by presenting opposing evidence. Thus,
the question of this motion narrows to whether Plaintiff has shown evidence
which rebuts the receipt of service via U.S. Mail. 
 
The Court finds the submissions in Plaintiff’s Reply are
sufficient to establish that notice was never received. This is through no
fault of the parties, as it appears a simple error from the Postal Service in
failing to deliver letters which were properly addressed. Though Plaintiff
attaches the returned envelope for only one of the subpoenas, it is clear from
the contents of his email communications with Defendants’ counsel that the
other notices likely suffered the same fate. 
 
Nevertheless, the Plaintiff complied with the statute, and the
only objection to the documents sought was statutory compliance and not that
the information sought was irrelevant or violated Plaintiff’s right to privacy
which given that the underlying case is for personal injury such right to
privacy is curtailed to some degree.   There
is an implicit waiver of a plaintiff's constitutional rights to privacy for
medical records directly relevant to a plaintiff's claim. By filing a personal
injury action plaintiffs place in issue their past and present physical and/or
mental conditions related to the injury sued upon. All medical and/or
psychological records that are directly related to the claimed injuries are
discoverable. (Evidence Code §§ 996, 1016; Britt v. Superior Court (San
Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1978) 20 Cal. 3d 844, 862-864.)
 
Mandating Defendant to re-issue the notice to Plaintiff and
mail them to the same address which previously resulted in returned mail is not
the solution.  The Court is disinclined
to quash the subpoenas as requested; however, will provide Plaintiff the
ability to seek a protective order for any of the subpoenas which may be
overbroad or have some other basis to be limited.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is DENIED. 
 
Untimely Filing 
 
The Court will addresses Defendants’ argument that the
instant motion was untimely filed pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 1985.3(g). This section
provides that motions to quash subpoenas for medical records are required to be
filed before the date of production. C.C.P. § 1013(a) additionally provides
that any statutory service deadline is advanced an additional five days where
service is made by mail. Defendants argue that because Plaintiff filed this
motion on October 10, 2024, the date of production in the subpoenas, the motion
is untimely. 
 
The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. Plaintiff has
shown that he only became aware of the subpoenas three days before the date of
production. Further, any delay does not appear to have prejudiced Defendant in
providing a timely opposition. Defendants’ timely filing of a 158 page
opposition to the motion indicates to the Court that they were not caught
unaware by this motion. Nevertheless, the Court will not require Defendant to
re-notice the subpoenas for the reasons stated above.
 
Sanctions 
 
The court may, in its
discretion, order the losing party to pay the prevailing party’s expenses,
including reasonable attorney fees, incurred on the motion to quash, if it
finds that the motion was “made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.” (C.C.P. § 1987.2(a).) 
 
The Defendant’s
opposition was not without substantial justification.  They timely served notices and while some
appear to have been returned others may not have been.   Mail to the Plaintiff’s counsel which is
property addressed appear to be returned on some occasion.   The ultimate issue is whether Plaintiff has
notice, which they clearly do have.   The
proper mechanism as this juncture is for Plaintiff to proceed via a protective
order concerning the medical documents sought.
 
It is clear to the
court that acrimony rather than the spirit of cooperation and professionalism is
driving the actions of counsel in this matter.  
The Court declines to order sanctions, but does encourage counsel to remember
the recent additions to the oath for lawyers in California: to act with “ dignity,
courtesy, and integrity.”  This reference
is to the first two.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jonathan Lee’s Motion
to Quash came on regularly for hearing on December 6,
2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows:  
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH IS
DENIED.  
 
SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
6, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 