 Case Number:  24NNCV00296    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00296

 
MP:     Complete
Merchant Services, Inc. (Plaintiff)             
RP:     Signature
Payments, LLC (Defendant) 

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Complete Merchant Services, Inc.
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Signature
Payments, LLC (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant,
an Independent Sales Organization (ISO), improperly transferred a merchant account, attributable to merchant Digica,
Inc. (Digica). Plaintiff argues that this transfer has resulted in Defendant’s
refusal to pay Plaintiff residuals owned under their agency contract. 
 
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC) states causes of action for
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (3) Conversion, (4) Common Counts, and (5) Unfair Competition. 
 
On September 13, 2024, the Court ruled on Defendant’s demurrer and motion
to strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC). Relevant to this motion,
the Court sustained Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages with leave to amend, finding there were insufficient
allegations to support such a claim. Plaintiff has now amended to add
allegations of Defendant’s alleged subterfuge and improper motivations behind
the transfer of the Digica account. 
 
Defendant now moves to strike various paragraphs of Plaintiff’s SAC.
Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Motions to strike are used to
reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by
demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435,
436, and 437.) 
 
The grounds for a motion to strike are governed by C.C.P. § 436. This code
section provides the Court with discretion to strike out material from a
pleading (1) where it appears that the matter is “irrelevant, false, or
improper” or (2) where the pleading is not “drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. §
436(a)-(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice. (C.C.P. § 437.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. § 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to a motion to
strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Matar
Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
General Discussion
 
Defendant
moves to strike allegations in the SAC which they claim are both irrelevant and
patently false. The allegations in controversy are briefly summarized below: 
 
·        
SAC ¶ 29: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant converted over $1 million merchant funds from
over a dozen merchants. 
 
·        
SAC ¶ 30: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges that it has requested Defendant’s parent company, North
American Bancard (NAB), to provide information regarding two merchants which
are unrelated to this litigation. 
 
·        
SAC ¶ 31: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has a practice of divesting merchants from
funds rightly owed to them through a variety of unscrupulous business tactics.  Specifically, that the “merchants … were
robbed of their funds.”
 
·        
SAC ¶ 32: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant tried to circumvent a bank investigation by
assigning Digica a new MID. 
 
·        
SAC ¶ 39: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s attorneys have represented that Digica moved
its processing to another sales agent because that office was more
communicative and had better customer service. 
 
·        
SAC ¶ 40: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges Digica’s dissatisfaction with Plaintiff’s services was a
story fabricated only after Plaintiff’s attorney sent a demand letter on
December 22, 2023. 
 
·        
SAC ¶ 47: Wherein
Plaintiff alleges the Digica will likely continue to process payments with
Defendant past the three-year term in the Merchant Agreement between Digica and
Defendant. 
 
Defendant does
not discretely identify which paragraphs they seek to strike as irrelevant and
which they seek to strike out as false. Regardless, it appears the only
arguments as to falsity are directed at SAC ¶ 32 and SAC ¶ 40. The
Court will address each of the challenged paragraphs in turn. 
 
SAC ¶ 29 
 
Defendant
argues SAC ¶ 29 should be stricken because Plaintiff alleges no facts in
support. The Court notes that such arguments speak to a demurrer for failure to
allege sufficient facts, not a motion to strike material as “false, irrelevant,
or improper”. The Court further notes that it has already overruled Defendant’s
demurrer to the cause of action for Conversion, finding Plaintiff had alleged
sufficient facts. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is DENIED as to SAC ¶ 29. 
 
SAC ¶30
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s reference to their parent company and other “unrelated
merchants” is irrelevant. The Court does not find this argument persuasive. 
 
An irrelevant
allegation is one that (1) is not essential to the statement of a claim or
defense or (2) is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient
claim or defense. (C.C.P. § 431.10(b)-(c).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff is alleging that their counsel has been in contact with Defendant’s
parent company regarding other merchants and requesting a release of funds. The
Court finds the allegations regarding other potential merchants serviced under
Defendant’s parent company are, at the very least, pertinent to the instant
litigation. Assuming these allegations to be true, as the Court must do on a
motion to strike, the relationship of other merchants serviced under
Defendant’s parent company could tend to prove or disprove whether Defendant’s
alleged impropriety is a routine practice, to wit whether they engaged in
unfair competition as asserted in the Sixth Cause of Action. Whether evidence
of this sort would be admissible is another matter. Regardless, Defendant has
not demonstrated these allegations are irrelevant on the face of the SAC.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is DENIED as to SAC ¶ 30. 
 
SAC ¶ 31
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s allegations regarding its business practices with
merchants are irrelevant because this action only concerns business between a
Sales Agent (Plaintiff) and an ISO (Defendant). The Court disagrees that these
allegations are irrelevant on the face of the SAC. Whether Defendant engaged in
nefarious business practices with merchants appears, at the very least,
pertinent to Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant engaged in similar conduct in
this case. Again, whether evidence of this sort would be admissible is another
matter. The fact remains these allegations appear relevant on the face of the
SAC.  However, the use of the phrase
“robbed” has a legal definition, to wit, to take property by force or
fear.   Such an action is a serious and
violent felony under the California Penal Code. The allegation of felonious
criminal conduct is misplaced and unsupported and is stricken.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART as to SAC ¶ 31.

 
SAC ¶ 32 
 
Defendant’s
arguments that the challenged accusations should be stricken as false is
unpersuasive. In ruling on a motion to strike, “judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) In addition to this presumption of truthfulness,
C.C.P. § 437 makes clear that the grounds for a motion to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or through judicially noticed documents. 
 
In other
words, in order to defeat the presumption of truth in Plaintiff’s allegations,
Defendant must demonstrate that the allegations are false based on information
present in the SAC or via judicially noticed documents. As Defendant has not
judicially noticed any documents in connection with this motion, they are
required to show that falsity results from the SAC itself. The Court finds they
have not done so. 
 
Defendant’s
arguments as to falsity are heavily reliant upon extrinsic argument. For
example, Defendant argues that SAC ¶ 32 (alleging that Defendant changed
Digica’s MID to avoid bank investigation) is false because “[a] Merchant’s MID
has no impact on its Tax ID number or a bank’s ability to investigate the
Merchant.” (Oppo. p. 5.) This argument inherently speaks to facts which are not
present in the SAC or judicially noticed. Defendant’s argument may be salient
as a defense to the allegation, but it does not follow that it should be
stricken from the SAC.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is DENIED as to SAC ¶ 32. 
 
SAC ¶¶ 39
& 40
 
Defendant
argues that these paragraphs should be stricken because, “Plaintiff accuses
Signature and its attorneys of a nefarious cover up without factual support.”
(Oppo. p. 5.) Defendant does not state whether they are moving to strike this
paragraph as false or irrelevant. In either instance, the Court finds the
paragraph should not be stricken. Insofar as relevance is concerned,
allegations that Defendant’s counsel fabricated a reason for the Digica
transfer is obviously relevant to this litigation. As concerns falsity,
Defendant’s arguments rely on extrinsic facts which do not appear in the SAC or
from judicially noticed documents. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is DENIED as to SAC ¶¶ 39 & 40.
 
SAC ¶ 47
 
Defendant’s
argument for striking SAC ¶ 47 is essentially that it improperly references the
Merchant Agreement between Digica and Defendant. Defendant reasons that because
the Merchant Agreement cannot be specifically enforced by Plaintiff as a
non-signature, this paragraph should be stricken. The Court finds this
unpersuasive, as it does not speak to any of the grounds for a motion to strike
enumerated in C.C.P. § 436. Plaintiff’s allegations that Digica will likely
keep processing transactions with Defendant after their Merchant Agreement has
expired appears directly relevant to this litigation. Further, nothing in the
SAC indicates these allegations are patently false. Nor does Defendant brief
why these allegations are otherwise “improper”. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is DENIED as to SAC ¶¶ 47.
 
Punitive
Damages 
 
Defendant
again moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
 
The Court
previously sustained Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages. In so
doing, the Court found that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Conversion was the
only remaining cause of action which could support these damages. (See Krusi
v. Bear, Stearns & Co. (1983) 144 Cal. App. 3d 664, 678 [“There is no
question that punitive damages may be recovered in an action for
conversion.”].) Regardless, the Court found the facts in the FAC were
insufficiently detailed to support behavior which was “so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (See Johnson & Johnson
Talcum Powder Cases (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 292, 332, 333.)
 
The question
before the Court is thus whether Plaintiff has added sufficient factual
allegations to support their request for punitive damages in connection to
their claim for Conversion. The Court finds they have done so. 
 
Plaintiff has
now alleged that Defendant purposefully transferred the Digica account to avoid
investigation by various financial institutions. Plaintiff alleges that emails
from Defendant’s employees contain references to Digica’s account being flagged
by the “Visa Dispute Monitoring Program.” (SAC ¶ 33.) Plaintiff further alleges
that these emails reference the employees attempting to avoid detection by
Mastercard’s “Member Alert to Control High Risk” database. (SAC ¶ 34.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was essentially seeking to avoid Digica being
blacklisted from having payments processed through these institutions. (Id.)
Plaintiff has also now alleged that Defendant’s counsel attempted to cover this
subterfuge by stating that Digica was transferred due to their dissatisfaction
with Plaintiff’s services. (SAC ¶¶ 39, 40.) 
 
In the Court’s
view the above allegations are now sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages. “Under the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm.
Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. Malice may be proved
either expressly through direct evidence or by implication through indirect
evidence from which the jury draws inferences." (Pfeifer v. John Crane,
Inc. (2013) 220 Cal. App. 4th 1270, 1299 [internal quotations omitted].) 
 
Plaintiff has
now alleged that Defendant’s conversion of funds otherwise owed to Plaintiff
was the direct result of Defendant’s attempting to circumvent the monitoring
systems of Visa and Mastercard. Taking these allegations as true, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendant consciously disregarded its obligations to
pay out Plaintiff in order to ensure Digica could continue to process
transactions. While such actions are not unheard of, they do appear to this
Court to be so contemptable that they would be looked at with disdain by the
general public. Whether Plaintiff will be able to evidence such behavior in an
admissible manner, and whether such evidence actually shows they are entitled
to punitive damages, are matters beyond the scope of this motion to strike. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is DENIED as to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
Signature
Payments, LLC’s Motion to Strike came
on regularly for hearing on December 6, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE PARAGRAPHS 29, 30, 31, 32,
39, 40, AND 47 OF THE SAC IS DENIED. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR
PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  December
6, 2024                             _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 