 Case Number:  23LBCV00406    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court has, in the past six to
nine months, seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses
and motions to compel PMK depositions in lemon law cases.  Similar issues are presented on all of the
motions, and the attorneys for both parties fail and refuse to meet and confer
in good faith in light of this Court’s prior rulings in order to resolve issues
relating to each case.  The Court’s
docket has been inundated with these motions, with discovery motions in lemon
law cases often taking up more than five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the assistance
of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on these discovery
motions.  The Court has ruled on
discovery motions relating to PMK depositions involving the instant defendant,
General Motors, in the following cases (among others):
22LBCV00901
22LBCV00761
22LBCV00456
23LBCV00126
21LBCV00261
 
The Court has read and considered Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331-334,
wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of sanctions
against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered payable to the
other party directly.  The Court finds
the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that does not
benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in connection with
discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court will rule on
the motions.  
 
The Court notes that these parties
have another discovery motion on calendar on 4/30/24.  The hearing on this motion is continued to 4/30/24,
to be heard concurrently with the other discovery motion.  The Court expects Counsel to meet and confer,
with this Court’s prior rulings in mind (rulings by other trial courts are not
relevant and should not be used in the meet and confer discussion).  If Counsel are unable to resolve all of their
issues prior to the continued hearing on the motion, they must file a joint
statement of items that remain in dispute. 
The joint statement must list each discovery item in dispute, the most
current response to that item, and each party’s statement of why a further
response should or should not be ordered. 
The joint statement must make arguments relevant only to the item in
dispute, not to the other items, so the Court can easily and quickly rule on each
item.  The parties must also meet and
confer concerning the other MTCF scheduled for 4/30/24, and must file a joint
statement concerning that motion as well if they are unable to resolve their
issues.  The joint statement for both
motions is due at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date.
 
If the parties resolve their
issues, they must take the motions off calendar using the online reservation
system.  If they are unable to resolve
their issues, they must also file short (no more than five pages) briefs and
declarations detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument
against imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  The briefs and declarations are also due at
least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date.  
 
The 3/01/24 FSC and 3/04/24 jury
trial are continued to 6/07/24 and 6/10/24, respectively, both at 8:30 a.m. in
Department S27.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.