 Case Number:  22LBCV00714    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Eric Gallegos filed this
action against Defendants, County of Los Angeles, SSA Terminals, LLC, and
Francisco Hinojosa for damages arising out of a motor vehicle accident that
allegedly caused Plaintiff to sustain whiplash injuries.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Compliance; for OSC re: Contempt; and for Monetary Sanctions

History of Discovery
     Dispute

Plaintiff, in response to FROGs,
indicated he sustained injuries to his neck and back in a prior accident in 2016,
and was represented by the same attorneys in connection with that accident as
he is in connection with the instant litigation.  
 
In July of 2023, Defendant asked
informally for more information, and Plaintiff’s attorney indicated it would be
provided.  It was not.  Defendant continued to ask for the information,
which was not provided.  On 9/22/23,
Defendant served a deposition subpoena for production of non-privileged records
on Plaintiff’s attorney.  The subpoena
sought production of non-privileged documents relating to the 2016
accident.  On 10/11/23, Plaintiff’s
attorney served objections to the subpoena. 
Defendant attempted to meet and confer, but the issue was not resolved.  
 

Parties’ Positions 

On 11/20/23, Defendant filed this motion,
seeking to compel production of all non-privileged documents responsive to the subpoena.  Alternatively, Defendant seeks an order issuing
and OSC re: contempt against Plaintiff’s attorney for failure to comply with the
subpoena.  Additionally, Defendant seeks
imposition of monetary sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion,
indicates there was a change in handling attorney in December of 2023, and the
new handling attorney reviewed the file and has produced all relevant,
non-privileged documents.  
 
Defendant, in reply, indicates it
was never seeking privileged documents, and therefore the issue is a red
herring.  Defendant argues Plaintiff
should not have waited until 1/02/24, the day the opposition was due, to serve
the responsive documents, and should be sanctioned for doing so.  Defendant argues the motion should be granted
in full.  
 

Analysis

It appears the motion is substantively
moot.  Defendant argues, in reply, that the
motion should be granted and an OSC re: sanctions should be issued, but
Defendant does not articulate any documents that remain responsive,
non-privileged, and outstanding.  The Court
is therefore not inclined to grant the motion substantively at this time, as the
order would be a nullity.  The Court will
certainly not issue an OSC re: contempt where there is no ongoing failure to obey
a subpoena.
 
It appears the real issue is
whether sanctions should be imposed.  As an
initial note, it appears Plaintiff’s attorney was required to file a motion to
quash the subpoena and was not permitted to simply file objections.  CCP §1987.1 permits a witness (subpoenaed
person) to file a motion to quash the subpoena. 
§§1985.3 and 1985.6 permits a consumer or employee to simply object, without
filing a motion to quash, but there is no such parallel provision for a
non-consumer, non-employee witness.  
 
CCP §1987.2(a) permits the Court,
in its discretion, to impose sanctions if the motion was made or opposed in bad
faith or without substantial justification. 
The Court finds Defendant has been attempting to obtain the subject
information since July of 2023, and if Plaintiff was going to simply provide
the information, Plaintiff should have done so without requiring lengthy meet
and confer communications, the propounding of a formal subpoena, and the
ultimate filing of a motion.  The Court therefore
finds sanctions are justified.  
 
Defendant seeks sanctions in the
amount of $2610, which is comprised of five hours to prepare the motion, three
hours to prepare a reply, and one hour to attend the hearing, all at the rate of
$290/hour.  The Court finds the amounts reasonable
in light of the complexity of the issues presented.  Sanctions are sought and imposed against
Plaintiff’s attorney, Mendez & Sanchez, and must be paid within twenty days.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.
 