 Case Number:  23LBCV00891    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs,
Magnolia Lopez, et al. filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Healthcare
Center, LLC, et al. for elder abuse, professional negligence, wrongful death,
NIED, and violation of patients’ rights arising out of Defendant’s care and
treatment of Decedent, Jose Perez.
 
2.    
Demurrer
to Complaint

Legal Standard on Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel admits he failed to meet and confer prior to filing the
pleading challenge.  The Court finds it
odd that Plaintiffs did not oppose the demurrer or motion to strike, as the
demurrer seeks dismissal of the entire complaint against Moving Defendant.  
 
The Court is inclined to continue the hearing on the demurrer to
require Counsel to meaningfully meet and confer in connection with each issue presented
by way of the demurrer and motion to strike. 

 
The Court will discuss a continued hearing date and briefing schedule
for the demurrer with Counsel at the CMC, which is on calendar concurrently with
the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike.    
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion
to strike.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer and motion
to strike and the CMC.