 Case Number:  23STCV09280    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFAs ADMITTED
Hearing Date: 5/31/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV09280 JAHEIM MARTIN vs
MALIN ASSET MANAGMENT
Moving Party: Defendant Charlavonna M. Barrett
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFAs ADMITTED IS GRANTED. 
 
 
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiff Jaheim Martin
filed the present dog bite case. On December 7, 2023, Defendant served its
first set of requests for admissions on Plaintiff. Plaintiff failed to provide
a response by the statutory deadline. On January 19, 2024, Defendant sent a
meet and confer letter requesting responses to the discovery requests at issue.
Plaintiff did not respond to the letter. Defendant now moves the Court to deem
the contents of its RFA, set one, admitted. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff
failed to serve an initial response, even one consisting solely of objections,
within the timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a). Plaintiff did not file an
opposition or any other filing indicating that substantially compliant responses
were served prior to the hearing date. Therefore, the current Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted is GRANTED. Defendant did not request
sanctions.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿ 
¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿ 
¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.