 Case Number:  23STCV18963    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENAS FOR MEDICAL RECORDS
Hearing Date: 5/31/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV18963 ADRIAN MENDOZA CRUZ
vs. JEFFREY EPPERSON
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendants
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENAS FOR MEDICAL
RECORDS IS GRANTED.
 
Defendants propounded deposition
subpoenas for production of business records on Plaintiff’s worker’s
compensation providers. The subpoenas requested “any and all” medical records.
Plaintiff served objections to the subpoenas, and the parties met and conferred
in an attempt to resolve their issues. They were unable to do so, and this
motion to quash followed.
The parties dispute whether there has
been sufficient meet and confer prior to filing the motion. Although meeting
and conferring is preferred, it is not required for a motion to quash a
subpoena. Under CCP §§ 1987.1, 1985.6(f)(4), meeting and conferring is required
only for a motion to compel, not for a motion to quash.
For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. (Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291,
301.) These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery. (Colonial
Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790).
By filing a personal injury action,
plaintiff placed in issue his past and present physical and/or mental
conditions related to the injury sued upon. All medical and/or psychological
records relating to the claimed injuries are thus discoverable. (Evidence Code
§§ 996, 1016; Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 862–864.)
Normally, information about medical conditions entirely different from the
injury sued upon is beyond the scope of discovery.
The instant case is not one where
Plaintiff is alleging chronic pain disorder effecting all parts of his body, or
where his injuries are so numerous that limiting production by body part would
be virtually impossible. Defendant has, therefore, not shown “good cause” for
production of medical records unrelated to Plaintiff’s bilateral knee, low back
and lower extremities injuries. Although Plaintiff tendered a demand for policy
limits, which contains a statement that he complained to his doctor about cervical
spine pain and neck pain a month after the incident, if Plaintiff, through
verified discovery responses, is not claiming injuries to the cervical spine or
neck, then Plaintiff has not placed these body parts at issue.
The motion to quash is GRANTED.  The subpoenas are to be limited to medical
records relating to the bilateral knee, low back injuries, and lower
extremities only. The parties are ordered to meet and confer concerning
mutually agreeable language for modified subpoenas before they are propounded.
If the parties are unable to agree on the language for the subpoenas, they are
ordered to schedule an informal discovery conference to resolve any remaining
issues.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.