 Case Number:  21STCV45770    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTION
Hearing Date: 5/31/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV45770 ARA MAHMOUDI vs
ROBERTO CARLOS MEJIA
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendants
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTION ARE DENIED.
 
Personal Injury Hub Courts will not entertain
Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses until the parties have
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). (Eighth Amended
Standing Order For Procedures In The Personal Injury Hub Court at p. 7.) The
Court may either deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to
discovery if the parties do not schedule and complete an IDC prior to the
hearing date set for a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery. (Id.) The parties are required to participate in an
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) to attempt to resolve any outstanding
discovery disputes before a motion to compel further can be heard. 
 
Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, objections
are a form of discovery responses. (CCP § 2031.210(a)(3).) Responses like the
ones at issue now, containing only objections, need not be verified. (CCP §
2031.250(a).) Thus, Defendant's unverified responses consisting of only
objections, served within the statutory deadline, constitute a response.
Therefore, Plaintiff needs to file a motion to compel further responses if
Plaintiff takes issue with Defendant’s objections, and the parties need to have
an IDC before the motion to compel further can be heard. Since no IDC has been
held or scheduled prior to the hearing or filing of the present motions, the
present motion is denied without prejudice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.