 Case Number:  22STCV14904    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE 
Hearing Date: 5/31/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV14904 TERESA GUZZARDO vs
SYMONE GALLEGOS
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendants Symone Gallegos, Alamitos
Enterprises and Jiffy Lube
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE IS
GRANTED
 
Background
 
On May 4, 2022, Plaintiff Teresa Guzzardo filed the present drunk
driving case against Defendant Symone Gallegos, case number 22STCV14904.
Defendant Symone Gallegos, who was initially in default, obtained relief and
filed an answer on February 15, 2024. On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff also filed
another case, case number 22STCV08263, arising out of the same incident,
against Gallegos' employer, Jiffy Lube, and Alamitos Enterprises (Corporate
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that Gallegos was acting within the scope of her
employment when she crashed into Plaintiff’s car and that the Corporate
Defendants knew and encouraged Gallegos’ drunk driving. Plaintiff now moves the
Court to consolidate the two cases.
 
Legal Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subdivision (a) states in
relevant part:
¿ 
(1) A notice
of motion to consolidate must:
(A) List all
named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names
of their respective attorneys of record;
(B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the
lowest-numbered case shown first; and
(C) Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated.
¿ 
(2) The
motion to consolidate:
(A) Is
deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing
fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed
only in the lowest-numbered case;¿ 
(B) Must be
served on all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the
cases sought to be consolidated; and
(C) Must
have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.¿
¿ 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subd. (a)). Also, the
consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, states in relevant
part:
 
(a)¿ When actions involving a common question of law or fact are
pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all
the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated
and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.
¿ 
(b)¿ The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice,
or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order
a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted
in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the
Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
The granting or denial of the motion to consolidate rests in the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be reversed except upon a
clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner v. Steinbaum (1955)
132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)

Discussion
 
The Court is not persuaded by Defendant Symone
Gallegos’ argument that the cases are so different that consolidating them
would not be in the interest of justice and judicial efficiency. Although the
cases involve different defendants and distinct legal theories, they arise from
the same incident and share substantial common facts. Both cases revolve around
the same car accident, the same victims, and the same damages. Plaintiff’s
claim against the corporate defendant is partly based on vicarious liability,
which naturally depends on the liability of Defendant Gallegos. Therefore, the
circumstances surrounding the incident and Defendant Gallegos’ intoxication and
employment status are relevant to both cases.
 
Consolidation will streamline the resolution
of related factual disputes and legal questions, such as: Whether Gallegos was
drinking and driving within the scope of her employment. Whether she obtained
the alcohol from the corporate defendants. Whether the corporate defendants
were aware of her drinking and still allowed her to drive. These are common
questions of law and fact relevant to both cases.
 
Both cases will have crossover in witnesses
and evidence, including details of the incident, damages, and Gallegos’
actions. Witnesses will testify about the car accident, the extent of the
victims' injuries, and the circumstances of Gallegos' intoxication, making
separate trials redundant and inefficient. For example, witnesses who saw
Gallegos consume alcohol or observed the incident will be critical in both
cases. Similarly, evidence such as medical reports detailing the victims'
injuries and repair estimates for vehicle damage will be relevant to both
cases. 
 
The Court is also not persuaded by the Corporate Defendants’
arguments. As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff introduced a signed stipulation
by the Corporate Defendants agreeing to consolidate the cases, raising
questions why they filed an opposition to the present motion for consolidation.
The Corporate Defendants point to potential procedural missteps by Plaintiffs,
such as not informing them about the related case or potential arrangements
between Defendant Gallegos and Plaintiff. However, these are not sufficient
grounds to deny consolidation. The primary consideration should be the
interests of justice and judicial efficiency.
 
Corporate Defendants raise a concern that if the Court consolidates
the two cases, the lower-numbered case, 22STCV14904, will be the leading case.
The trial for that case is set for November 2024, which they contend would not
allow them sufficient time to conduct discovery or have their motions for
summary judgment heard. The Corporate Defendants request the Court to exercise
its discretion in managing its calendar and make 23STCV08263 the leading case,
with a trial setting conference set for 6/5/2024. However, consistent with
Local Rules, the lower-numbered case is the lead case and will stay the lead
case.  Corporate Defendants may, however,
seek a stipulation from the other parties to continue, or, alternatively, if
the other parties will not stipulate bring a motion to continue.  
 
In sum, the two
cases arise out of the same incident, and some of Plaintiff's claims against
the Corporate Defendants are based on vicarious liability, which naturally
depends on the liability of Defendant Gallegos. Given the significant overlap
in witnesses, evidence, and factual disputes between the two cases, the Court
grants Plaintiff's motion to consolidate.
 
PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.