 Case Number:  21STCV37594    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
 
Hearing Date: 5/31/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV37594 ANNA VASERFIRER, et
al. vs UBER TECHNOLOGIES 
 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION
Moving Party: Defendant Uber
Responding Party: Plaintiff  
Notice: Sufficient  
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION IS GRANTED.
 
The parties have met
and conferred on Plaintiff’s mental examination and agreed that a mental
examination should be conducted but disagree on the scope of the examination
and have hit an impasse on the following issues:
1.   
Whether Defendant needs to disclose the
exact tests to be performed.
2.   
Whether Dr. Conover shall be permitted
to explore relevant cognitive and psychiatric histories during the interview
portion, which are clinically necessary to evaluate pre-existing symptoms and
conditions related to the cognitive, psychological, and emotional damage
Plaintiff contends was caused by this accident.
3.   
Whether the raw data should be released
directly to Plaintiff’s counsel, or only to Plaintiff’s retained
neuropsychologist.
4.   
Whether audio recording of the testing
portion can be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel, or only to Plaintiff’s retained
neuropsychologist.
In applying CCP §
2032.310 and in balancing Plaintiff’s need for relevant information against the
protection of the integrity of the tests, the Court rules as follows:
1.   
Defendant is to provide the name of the
tests to be performed. Notice must state the time, place, identity, and
specialty of the examiner, and the “manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The
requirement for specification of the “manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination” requires disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests and
procedures will be utilized (e.g., x-rays, blood and urine samples). (See
CCP § 2032.220(c).) Defendant must provide Plaintiff notice of the precise
tests that will be conducted on Plaintiff.
2.   
Defendant’s neuropsychologist is
permitted to explore relevant cognitive and psychiatric histories, which are
clinically necessary to evaluate pre-existing symptoms and conditions related
to the cognitive, psychological, and emotional damage Plaintiff contends was
caused by this accident.
3.   
Raw data is to be provided to
Plaintiff’s counsel for cross examination purposes and to challenge Defendant’s
expert’s conclusions but subject to a protective order, requiring the materials to remain
confidential and used solely for the purposes of this case to obviate any
concerns over production of raw data.
4.   
CCP § 2032.530(a) expressly permits the
examinee and/or the examiner to audio record the examination in its entirety;
however, it does not provide for or preclude the disclosure of such audio
recordings. The disclosure of such material remains within the sound discretion
of the trial court. (Randy's Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 818, 835.) The Court, in its discretion, finds that the use of the recordings
for case preparation and cross-examination outweighs any interest in having it
released only to another expert and therefore orders audio recording of the
testing portion to be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel, also subject to a
protective order.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to attend her mental examination within 30 days of today, subject to
the parties' agreement and the Court’s ruling on the issues listed above.
 
 
MOTION TO SEAL THE RECORD
Moving Party: Defendant Avis Rent A Car
System
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION TO SEAL THE RECORD IS
DENIED
 
Legal
Standard
Pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 2.550 the court
may seal a record “only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)
Discussion
On January 18, 2024, the Parties entered into a
stipulation and protective order. Thereafter, Avis responded to written
discovery by producing documents identified as confidential pursuant to the
terms of the stipulation and protective order. Part of the document production
included the rental program agreement between Avis and Uber. Defendant Avis now
moves the Court to seal the rental program agreement. No opposition was filed.
Although the parties entered into a stipulation and
protective order, California Rule of Court 2.551(a) provides that the Court
must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement
or stipulation of the parties. A party requesting that a record be filed under
seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing (Cal. Rules of Court
2.551(b)(1)).
Defendant’s motion and declaration did not contain sufficient
facts to justify the sealing of the rental program agreement. Most
significantly, Defendant did not attach a redacted copy of the rental service
agreement or lodge a copy of the service agreement for the Court to review.
Second, Defendant's declaration and motion consist primarily of legal and/or
factual conclusions: (a) the release of the Rental Program Agreement in the
public domain will result in prejudice to Uber and Avis; (b) the Rental Program
Agreement contains highly sensitive proprietary business information; (c) Uber
and Avis will both lose competitive standing in their respective areas of
business; (d) the Agreement contains references to trade secrets, intellectual
property, and proprietary terms and conditions; (e) the release of the Rental
Program Agreement in the public domain would violate confidentiality
obligations to which both entities have contractually agreed.  Without examining the agreement itself or
specific facts showing what type of information in the agreement references
trade secrets, intellectual property, and without a declaration setting forth
facts to establish how the agreement would impact Avis and Uber, not just
conclusions, the Court cannot find that having the agreement in the public
domain would cause a severe detriment to both entities' ongoing practices.  The Court does not have the necessary
information to assess whether sealing the record is justified. Thus,
Defendant’s motion is denied without prejudice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 