 Case Number:  21STCV35636    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Hearing Date: 5/31/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV35636 JOSE ANTONIO DE LA
CRUZ CEN vs J&J SNACK FOODS CORP.
Moving Party: Defendant J&J SNACK FOODS
Responding Party: Plaintiff and Defendant Horizon Personnel Services
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS
DENIED.
 
Background
 
On
September 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present premises liability case against
Defendant J&J Snack Foods. Plaintiff alleges that while working under the
employment of Horizon Personnel Services, he was sent to work at J&J Snack
Foods and fell due to dangerous conditions on J&J's premises. On June 24,
2022, Defendant J&J filed a cross-complaint against Horizon Personnel
Services for indemnity and contribution. Defendant J&J now moves for
summary judgment/adjudication against Plaintiff, arguing that a special
employer relationship exists between Plaintiff and Defendant, which would bar
Plaintiff’s claims under Labor Code § 3600 et seq. Defendant J&J also seeks
summary adjudication on its cross-complaint against Defendant Horizon Personnel
Services for express indemnity.
 
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when
the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
SUMMARY
AJDUCATION AGAINST PLAINTIFF
 
Special
Employee Doctrine
 
Workers’
compensation provides the exclusive remedy against an employer for an injury
sustained by an employee in the course of employment and compensable under the
workers’ compensation law. (Labor Code §§ 3600(a), 3602(a); Charles J.
Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800,
812-13.) This precludes a tort remedy against the employer if the conditions of
compensation are present.  (Lab. Code § 3601(a).  “The purpose of
this exclusivity provision is to give efficacy to the theoretical ‘compensation
bargain’ between the employer and employee.” (Privette v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 697 [quotation marks and citation omitted].)
However, the statutory restriction does not affect an employee’s rights to
damages in tort from entities with which the employee has no employment
relationship. (Caso v. Nimrod Productions, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal. App. 4th
881, 888.) If the plaintiff is an “independent contractor[ ] rather than [a]
special employee[ ], . . . [then] his claim is not barred by workers’
compensation exclusivity.”  (Id. at 888 [citing to S.G. Borello
& Sons, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations (1989) 48 Cal. 3d
341, 349 (worker’s compensation exclusivity does not apply to independent
contractors)].)
 
When
an employer “lends” an employee to another employer “and relinquishes to the
borrowing employer some right of control over the employee’s activities, a
‘special employment relationship’ arises between the borrowing employer and the
employee.” (Ibid., citations omitted.) Two consequences ensue once a
special employment relationship is identified: “(1) the special employer’s
liability for workers’ compensation coverage to the employee, and (2) the
employer’s immunity from a common law tort action . . . [which flows] from the
exclusivity of the compensation remedy embodied in Labor Code section 3601.” (Ibid.)
 
To
be deemed a special or “borrowed” employee, the special employer “must play a
significant supervisory role over the work of the injured person in the
particular operation being performed at the time of the injury.” (Collins v.
Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2012) 207 Cal. App. 4th 867, 879.) The Court of
Appeal in Collins clarified what it meant by a “significant supervisory
role” by the following language:
 
The determination of
whether a worker is a borrowed servant is accomplished by ascertaining who has
the power to control and direct the servants in the performance of their work,
distinguishing between authoritative direction and control, and mere suggestion
as to details or the necessary cooperation, where the work furnished is part of
a larger undertaking.  There is thus a distinction between ‘authoritative
direction and control’ by a railroad, and the ‘minimum cooperation necessary to
carry out a coordinated undertaking’ which does not amount to control or
supervision.  The control need not be exercised; it is sufficient if the
right to direct the details of the work is present. (Id.
at 879, citations omitted.)
 
While
the control does not necessarily need to be acted upon to exist, there must be
more than mere cooperation with the employee or suggestion as to the completion
of the work. (Ibid.)
 
There
are a number of other factors relevant in determining whether a special
employment relationship exists in addition to the alleged special employer’s
control. These factors include:
 
(1) whether the borrowing employer's
control over the employee and the work he is performing extends beyond mere
suggestion of details or cooperation; 
(2) whether the employee is performing the special employer's
work; 
(3) whether there was an agreement,
understanding, or meeting of the minds between the original and special
employer; 
(4) whether the employee acquiesced in the new work situation; 
(5) whether the original employer
terminated [its] relationship with the employee; 
(6) whether the special employer furnished the tools and place
for performance; 
(7) whether the new employment was over a considerable length of
time; 
(8) whether the borrowing employer had the right to fire the
employee and 
(9) whether the borrowing employer had the obligation to pay the
employee. 
 
(Riley
v. Southwest Marine, Inc. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1242, 1250.)
 
In
contrast, a special relationship “may be negated by evidence that ‘[t]he
employee is (1) not paid by and cannot be discharged by the borrower, (2) a
skilled worker with substantial control over operational details, (3) not
engaged in the borrower’s usual business, (4) employed for only a brief period
of time, and (5) using tools and equipment furnished by the lending
employer.’” (Ibid.)
 
When an employer
lends an employee to another employer and relinquishes to the borrowing
employer all right of control over the employee’s activities, a “‘special
employment’ relationship arises between the borrowing employer and the
employee.” (Marsh v. Tilley Steel Co. (1980) 26 Cal.3d 486, 492).) “In
determining whether a special employment relationship exists, the primary
consideration is whether the special employer has ‘“[t]he right to control and
direct the activities of the alleged employee or the manner and method in which
the work is performed, whether exercised or not .…’”” (Kowalski v. Shell Oil
Co. (1979) 23 Cal.3d 168, 175.) When the alleged special employer exercises
control over the details of an employee’s work, such control strongly supports
the existence of a special employment relationship. (Id. at p. 176.)
 
  Where the facts are undisputed, the existence of a
special employment relationship is a question of law. (Santa Cruz Poultry,
Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 575, 584.)  However, “[w]here the evidence, though not in
conflict, permits conflicting inferences, . . . ‘the existence or nonexistence
of the special employment relationship barring the injured employee’s action at
law is generally a question reserved for the trier of fact.’” (Brassinga
v. City of Mountain View (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 195, 217, citations and internal quotations omitted.)
 
Discussion
In meeting its initial burden, J&J relies on two
pieces of evidence. First, J&J presents the declaration of Mary Lou Kehoe,
Vice President of Human Resources for J&J. Kehoe declares that Plaintiff
was employed by Horizon on October 10, 2019, and was assigned to work at
J&J under a labor service agreement. While Plaintiff was employed by
Horizon, he was expected to work on tasks assigned by J&J under Horizon
supervisors, as required by the service agreement. J&J set Plaintiff’s
schedule and had the right to terminate Plaintiff. (Declaration of Mary Kehoe ¶
6-7.) 
Second, J&J introduces a copy of the Labor Services
Agreement between J&J and Horizon. Plaintiff was assigned to work at
J&J under this Services Agreement. (Declaration of Mary Kehoe ¶ 6 and
Exhibit 1.) Pertinent parts of the Services Agreement provide
the following:
Section 2.1 of the agreement states:
"Agency [Horizon] will provide Workers to provide Services to the Company [J&J]
… Services will be performed under the direct supervision of three (3)
full-time On-Site Supervisor(s), provided by … and approved by Company. The
On-Site Supervisors shall have day-to-day responsibility of supervising the
Workers and shall direct Workers consistent with the request of Company to
perform services required by Company."
 
Section 2.2 specifies that the Company pays the
Agency for the labor hours worked by the Agency’s workers.
 
Section 2.3 states: "The services that
Agency provides to Company will be as an independent contractor. Nothing
contained in this Agreement is construed to create the relationship of
principal and agent, or employer and employee, between Agency (or any
Subcontractor) or any of their respective employees (including the Workers) or
agents, on the one hand, and Company, on the other hand."
 
Section 2.4 states: "The Parties agree
that Workers are the employees of Agency (or any Subcontractor, as the case may
be) and are not the employees of Company." Agency is responsible for
personnel, payroll records, taxes, payroll deductions, workers’ compensation,
and unemployment of the Workers.
 
Section 2.5 provides that "Agency will
recruit, interview, select, hire, and/or assign workers who, in the judgment of
Agency, are qualified to perform services" for the Company. The Company
has the right to accept or refuse the workers or to remove or reassign any of
the workers upon request to the Agency.
 
When assessing the evidence provided by the
moving party under the factors set forth in Riley, most factors seem to
weigh against finding a “special employment relationship”. First, there is no
agreement, understanding, or meeting of the minds between J&J and Horizon
on Plaintiff’s employment status. The agreement explicitly states that the
services Agency provides to Company will be as an independent contractor and
that the agreement is not to be construed to create an employer-employee
relationship between the Workers (Plaintiff) and the Company. Second, the
contract provides that the Plaintiff is directly supervised by Horizon’s
on-site supervisors. The on-site supervisors have day-to-day responsibility for
supervising the Workers and directing them consistent with the requests of the
Company. This is consistent with an independent contractor relationship where
the hirer requests certain services to be performed, and the independent
contractor controls the means and mode of performing the tasks. Third, Horizon,
not J&J, pays Plaintiff. Horizon keeps payroll and personnel files, deducts
taxes, and provides workers' compensation and unemployment insurance to
Plaintiff. Fourth, Plaintiff was contracted with Horizon and not J&J at the
time of the incident. Fifth, Horizon is to hire, select, train and send Workers
to J&J. Sixth, Plaintiff’s employment was not over a considerable length of
time; he was hired on October 10, 2019, and was injured on his first day on the
job. 
 
The only factor favoring J&J is that it can
request to remove or reassign the worker from the Company upon request to
Horizon. J&J’s separate statement and evidence do not address whether
Plaintiff engaged in J&J’s usual business, whether J&J or Horizon
furnished the tools, or whether Plaintiff was skilled with substantial control
over operational details. Furthermore, based solely on evidence presented by
J&J, this case differs from Riley, where the company trained the
worker, provided daily job instructions, supervised the work, and the worker
was employed by the company for seven months. (Riley v. Southwest Marine,
Inc. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1242, 1250-1251.)
 
Thus, from the evidence presented
by Defendant, most of the Riley factors weigh against J&J.
Therefore, at the very least, reasonable minds can differ on whether Plaintiff
was a "special employee" of J&J. Defendant has failed to meet its
initial burden, and the motion for summary judgment/adjudication against
Plaintiff is DENIED.
 
SUMMARY ADJUCIATION AGAINST
DEFEDNANT HORIZON
 
        Defendant J&J also
moves for summary adjudication on its cause of action for express indemnity in
its cross complaint against Horizon. J&J relies on the same service
agreement, which pertinently provides: 
Section 2.8
Indemnification: "Agency hereby agrees to forever indemnify, defend, and
hold harmless Company and its directors, officers, employees, agents, parents,
subsidiaries, and affiliated partnerships or corporations from and against all
demands, claims, actions, losses, judgments, suits, proceedings, hearings,
investigations, citations, fines, costs, expenses (including legal fees), and
controversies of any kind or nature whatsoever arising out of or relating to:
        2.8.2
Any direct claim for Worker's Compensation benefits or other claims for
job-related bodily injury or death asserted against Company by Agency or
Subcontractor, or by any of their respective officers, employees (including the
Workers) or agents or, in the event of death, by their personal representatives
or estates, except those claims for job-related bodily injury or death caused
by the gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intentional act of Company, its
directors, officers, employees, or agents;" (Ex. 1 to Declaration of Mary
Kehoe.)
The agreement clearly
provides that Horizon is to indemnify J&J for the present action, as it is
a job-related claim for bodily injury by Agency’s worker against the Company.
Discussion
        Horizon
argues that tender or request to defend and indemnify is an element of express
indemnity that J&J needed to establish. Civil Code section 2778, which sets
forth the general rules for indemnity, subsections 4 and 5 provide:
"The person
indemnifying is bound, on request of the person indemnified, to defend actions
or proceedings brought against the latter in respect to the matters embraced by
the indemnity, but the person indemnified has the right to conduct such defenses,
if he chooses to do so." (CCP 2778(4).)
"If, after
request, the person indemnifying neglects to defend the person indemnified, a
recovery against the latter suffered by him in good faith is conclusive in his
favor against the former." (CCP 2778(5).)
The insurer's defense
duty is a continuing one, arising on tender of defense and lasting until the
underlying lawsuit is concluded, or until it has been shown that there is no
potential for coverage (Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg. Inc. (2000) 44
Cal.4th 541, 546.)
In
the reply, J&J does not dispute that Civil Code section 2778 is applicable
or that tender needed to be established to prevail on an express indemnity
claim. Instead, J&J argues that it tendered its defense to Horizon on
January 19, 2022. (Reply at pg. 8.) However, no evidence of such tender was
presented in the moving papers or mentioned in the separate statement. No email
or letter of such a request was provided in the moving papers. J&J further
argues that Horizon should have had notice since the cross-complaint for
express indemnity was filed. However, notice is not equivalent to tender or
request. It is Defendant's duty, as the moving party, to establish all elements
of the cause of action, and Defendant failed to provide evidence that it
requested or tendered to Horizon to defend the present action.
        Horizon further argues that a party may
move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, but summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Cal.
Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)(1).) J&J therefore cannot completely dispose
of its express indemnity claim when the duty to indemnify does not arise until
liability is proven. (Aluma Systems Concrete Construction of California v.
Nibbi Bros. Inc. (2016) 2 Ca1.App.5th 620, 627.) J&J cites to Lilienthal
& Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1850, where the
court found that "a party may present a motion for summary adjudication
challenging a separate and distinct wrongful act even though combined with
other wrongful acts alleged in the same cause of action."
However, the present
case is distinguishable from Lilienthal, where the moving party divided
one cause of action into two separate issues for summary adjudication.
Defendant in the present case did not divide its cause of action for express
indemnity into two separate issues, duty to defend and duty to indemnify, for
the Court to adjudicate. Instead, J&J in the moving papers requested the
Court to enter summary adjudication as to the cause of action of express
indemnity as a whole. Granting summary adjudication on the basis of Horizon’s
duty to defend would not completely dispose of the cause of action, as
Horizon’s duty to indemnify is not ripe for adjudication while litigation is
still in process. (Crawford v. Weather Shield (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 565.)
        J&J
should have brought summary adjudication on Horizon’s duty to defend only.
However, this was not noticed in the motion, and the Court cannot sua sponte
create issues or grant summary adjudication on issues that were not noticed
by the moving party. (See Gonzales v. Superior Court (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 1542, 1545–1546.) Thus, J&J’s motion for summary adjudication
for its cause of action for express indemnity is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 