  Case Number:  20SMCV01196    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   WILLIAM P. HOWELL, as Trustee of the Howell Family Trust,    Plaintiff, v.  SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  20SMCV01196      Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA    EDISON’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY    ADJUDICATION OF SIXTH CAUSE OF    ACTION FOR INVERSE CONDEMNATION  DISCUSSION This lawsuit arises from property damage connected to work performed by Defendant Southern California Edison’s (“SCE’s”) outside contractor, Defendant Edison Power Constructors, Inc. (“EPC”).  While replacing a deteriorated SCE utility pole on Topanga Canyon Boulevard, EPC inadvertently drilled into an underground drainage culvert owned by Defendant Caltrans, and then set the replacement pole into the broken pipe.  When EPC discovered the damage, it attempted to stabilize the pole with foam and gravel, which further congested the culvert.  During a subsequent rainstorm, the blockage to the culvert caused a mudslide on Plaintiff William Howell’s property located downgradient from the damaged pipe.   Plaintiff has sued SCE for inverse condemnation.  Plaintiff alleges in his Sixth Cause of Action that SCE performed a statutorily required DigAlert, a service that identifies underground facilities, but that was insufficient to locate the drainage culvert.  (Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) ¶117.)  Plaintiff alleges SCE “has failed to enact any policies or procedures that identifies and locates those underground facilities that are not located by DigAlert, such as the Subject Culvert.”  (Id.)  Plaintiff characterizes this as a “deliberate policy decision to shift the risk of future loss to property owners like Plaintiff rather than absorb the risk as part of the cost of the improvement paid by the community at large.”  (Id. ¶119) SCE has satisfied its initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element of this inverse condemnation claim.  (See Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2).)  Plaintiff opposes the motion by endeavoring to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to this inverse condemnation cause of action.  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  But in endeavoring to demonstrate that there is evidence sufficient to establish a triable issue, plaintiff explicitly asserts and relies on facts supporting a theory of inverse condemnation that Plaintiff did not plead in its Third Amended Complaint.  Specifically, Plaintiff identifies evidence that SCE decided as a matter of policy not to conduct physical oversight on the vast majority of work its vendors were performing and that this policy was applied to the work by EPC at Plaintiff’s property.  Plaintiff argues that this evidence establishes a triable issue of fact.   SCE argues in its Reply, among other things, that its motion should be granted because this theory of inverse condemnation was not pled in the Third Amended Complaint.  The Court agrees with SCE.  This newly articulated theory not found in the pleadings cannot be basis for denying the motion.  Because Plaintiff’s opposition is based entirely on this theory the Court grants the motion without reaching the parties’ other subsidiary arguments.    CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Defendant SCE’s motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for inverse condemnation against SCE.   IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: December 14, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  