  Case Number:  23TRCV04165    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiffs Michael Nelson and Margaret M. WilliamsMotion to Compel ArbitrationThe court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGDefendant Tesla Motors, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED and the action STAYED pending the outcome of the arbitration.BACKGROUNDOn December 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael Nelson and Margaret M. Williams (“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Tesla Motors”) and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive for: (1) the Breach of Express Warranty under the Song-Beverly Warranty Act; and (2) Violation of the Song-Beverly Warranty Act Section 1793.2.On January 22, 2024, Tesla Motors filed this instant Motion to Compel Arbitration. On March 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On April 3, 2024, Tesla Motors filed its reply.REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEIn support of its motion, Tesla Motors request the court take judicial notice of (1) Plaintiffs’ Complaint filed on December 13, 2023 in this matter.The request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452, subdivision (d).LEGAL AUTHORITYThe Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”) applies in both federal and state courts to contracts evidencing a transaction involving interstate commerce. 9 U.S.C. §§ 1–2; Southland Corp. v. Keating (1984) 465 U.S. 1, 12. The FAA preempts conflicting state law. Preston v. Ferrer (2008) 552 U.S. 346, 353. The party that contends the FAA applies bears the burden to demonstrate that the arbitration agreement is in a “‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce’ . . . .” (Woolls v. Super. Ct. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.)Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2, “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)DISCUSSIONDefendant Tesla Motors, Inc. (hereinafter “Tesla Motors”) moves to compel p\Plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims in accordance with their arbitration agreement with Tesla Motors and staying this action pending the outcome of arbitration.Applicability of the FAATesla Motors argues the Arbitration Provision is enforceable pursuant to the federal law. Specifically, Tesla Motors asserts the Arbitration Provision in Plaintiffs’ Retail Installment Sales Contract (“Sale Contract”) require arbitration under the FAA. (Kim Decl. ¶ 3, 8; Ex. 2.) Furthermore, Tesla Motors argues the Arbitration provision is in writing and for an automotive sale contract, which necessarily involves interstate commerce. Therefore, the Sale Contractdemonstrates that the Arbitration Provision at issue is one involving interstate commerce and requires the application of the FAA.Prior Demand for ArbitrationA party seeking to compel arbitration under Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2 must “plead and prove a prior demand for arbitration under the parties’ arbitration agreement and a refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.” (Mansouri v. Super. Ct. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640; Civ. Proc. Code, § 1281.2. )Here, Tesla Motors has plead that a prior demand for arbitration had been made to Plaintiffs. Specifically, Tesla Motors contends on January 22, 2024, it requested Plaintiffs stipulate to arbitration but Plaintiffs’ refused such demand before bringing forth this instant motion. (Ameripour Decl. ¶ 3.)Existence of a Valid Agreement“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 (Giuliano).) “In determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties’ intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.” (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified, and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.” (Titolo v. Cano (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the dispute.” (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass’n v. State (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial courtsits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.(Giuliano, supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.)Tesla Motors contends on or about November 24, 2022, Plaintiffs placed an order for the subject vehicle on Tesla's website. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Furthermore, Tesla Motors contends when placing in the order for the vehicle, Plaintiffs accept the terms and conditions of the Order Agreement. (Id., Ex. 1.) Moreover, Tesla Motors contends Plaintiffs would not have been able to place the order without clicking the “Place Order” button on the Tesla's website or authorizing someone to do so on their behalf. (Id. ¶ 4.) Tesla Motors also asserts immediately below the “Place Order” button would have appeared text in bold font advising Plaintiffs that by clicking “Place Order” he would be agreeing to the terms and conditions of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“Order Agreement”), which appeared in bold font and was displayed as a hyperlink. (Id.) As such, Tesla Motors asserts if Plaintiffs clicked on this hyperlink, a new window would have opened revealing the agreement or policy described in the hyperlink. (Id.) Additionally, Tesla Motors asserts the Order Agreement is available for Plaintiffs to view on their mytesla.com account for as long as the customer owns the vehicle. (Id. ¶ 14.)Similarly, Tesla Motors argues on or about December 15, 2022, Plaintiffs took delivery of the vehicle from Tesla Motors and prior to taking delivery of the vehicle, Plaintiffs executed the Sale Contract. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 3, 8; Ex. 2.) Tesla Motors also argues Plaintiffs signed the Sale Contract from that purchase. Lastly, Tesla Motors asserts the Sale Contract that Plaintiffs’ signed also included in arbitration provision.On Page 3 of the Order Agreement it states:“Agreement to Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates, (together “Tesla”). If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. If not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our products. We will pay all AAA fees for any arbitration, which willbe held in the city or county of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org. The arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a plaintiffs or class member in any class or representative action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other claims must be arbitrated. If you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court. You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.”On Page 5 of the Sale Contract it states:“ARBITRATION PROVISION” and “PLEASE REVIEW – IMPORTANT – AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS”The arbitration provision further provides: “1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN YOU AND US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS. 3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.”The arbitration provision also provides: “Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of thisvehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action… Any arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.) and not by any state law concerning arbitration. Any award by the arbitrator shall be in writing and will be final and binding on all parties, subject to any limited right to appeal under the Federal Arbitration Act.”Here, Tesla Motors has met its initial burden of proving the existence of two valid written agreements to arbitrate the claims in this instant action. As discussed above, Tesla Motors quoted language verbatim from the Order Agreement and Sale Contract between Plaintiffs and Tesla Motors. Also, Tesla Motors provided a copy of the actual Order Agreement and Sale Contract containing the arbitration provisions attached to Raymond Kim’s declaration. Further, Tesla Motors did not receive an opt-out letter from Plaintiffs.In opposition, Plaintiffs do not argue facts to the challenge the validity of the Arbitration Provisions but rather the enforceability of the provisions. Thus, the Court finds that Tesla Motors has proven the existence of two valid written arbitration agreements.The Court now turns to whether the Arbitration Provisions in the Order Agreement and Sale Contract are enforceable.Enforceability of the AgreementUnder California Civil Code Section 1670.5, subdivision (a), [i]f the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).)Unconscionability is defined as “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (A¿& M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486.) Unconscionability thus has aprocedural and a substantive element. (Ibid.) The court considers the factors of oppression and surprise in determining whether a contract is procedurally unconscionable. (Ibid.) Oppression refers to inequality of bargaining power, which cuts off meaningful negotiation. (Ibid.) Surprise refers to the concealment of the agreed-upon terms in a lengthy form drafted by the party seeking to enforce them. (Ibid.) Substantive unconscionability refers to the extent to which a contractual term reallocates the risks of a transaction “in an objectively unreasonable or unexpected or unexpected manner.” (Id. at 487.) Both substantive and procedural unconscionability must be present for a contract to be unenforceable, and “the greater the unfair surprise or inequality of bargaining power, the less unreasonable the risk allocation which will be tolerated.” (Ibid.)1. Procedural UnconscionabilityIn opposition, Plaintiffs argue the Order Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is adhesive. Specifically, Plaintiffs contend the Order Agreement was presented to them with predetermined terms online. As such, Plaintiffs contend they were not afforded any meaningful opportunity to negotiate or discuss any of the terms outlined in the Order Agreement. In fact, Plaintiffs argue a customer must click on the “confirm” button to finalize acceptance of the Order Agreement, so Plaintiffs had no choice but to accept the terms of the Order Agreement including the arbitration provision and sign in two places which they did on November 24, 2022, evidencing their lack of any bargaining power. Lastly, plaintiffs contend due to the absence of any repair history of the subject vehicle they wouldn't have been aware of the option to opt out within 30 days, as the vehicle hadn't undergone repairs for any nonconformities at that point.In reply, Tesla Motors argues the Arbitration Provision provides the consumer with a unilateral option to opt-out of arbitration, so Plaintiffs cannot simply say that this is a contract of adhesion. Furthermore, Tesla Motors contends Plaintiffs decision to order the vehicle pursuant to the Arbitration Provision and the Order Agreement was entirely willful as Plaintiffs were not forced to purchase the subject vehicle and could have decided to purchase another vehicle elsewhere that was not subject to the instant agreement. Last, Tesla Motors argues the Supreme Court of California has rejected the argument that an agreement was “a contract of adhesion and therefore procedurally unconscionable” simply because it was a form contract the dealer used with their customers. (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 931.)The Court finds that the Order Agreement is not procedurally unconscionable because it is not a contract of adhesion. (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Companies¿(1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694 (a contract of adhesion is “a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.”).) The Order Agreement provided Plaintiffs with the unilateral option to opt-out of the arbitration within 30 days after signing the agreement. Furthermore, the Arbitration Provision was not a surprise term concealed in the Order Agreement as it was in bold font and boxed off to bring attention to its importance.2. Substantive UnconscionabilityUnder Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83 (Armendariz), an arbitration agreement is lawful if it: (1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 102 (internal quotations omitted) (citing Cole v. Burns Intern. Security Services (D.C. Cir.1997) 105 F.3d 1465, 1482).)In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the Order Agreement is substantively unconscionable because inadequate discovery in the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) will prevent Plaintiffs from vindicating statutory rights under Song-Beverly. Specifically, Plaintiffs assert under AAA Rule 22, Plaintiffs may be able to share documents, other information, and identify witnesses for the hearing, which Plaintiffs argue is inadequate for them to vindicate their rights under Song-Beverly. Plaintiffs contend to qualify under Song-Beverly, they must show that Tesla Motors did not promptly replace or provide restitution for the subject vehicle and could not repair after a reasonable number of attempts. As such, Plaintiffs argue they need to take depositions of Tesla Motors’ Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) as to numerous pertinent categories and these are not available per AAA Rule 22. Moreover, plaintiffs assert that they would not be entitled to written discovery that is essential to their fair pursuit of their lemon law claims. Finally, Plaintiffs contend lemon law disputes are factually complex and outcomes are often determined by multiple percipient witnesses, as well as written information about the disputed practice and/or policies and procedures of the manufacturer.In reply, Tesla Motors argues the Order Agreement is not one-sided at all as it states that it covers any dispute between the parties not just disputes brought by the consumer and the commitment to arbitrate applies to both sides. Tesla Motors further argues the Arbitration Provision does allow for the parties to utilize AAA as an arbitration organization, which utilizes a neutral arbitrator selection process. Moreover, Tesla Motors contends AAA’s Consumer Arbitration Rules (“CAR”) do allow for the exchange of information between the parties pursuant to Rule 22 and there is nothing in the Song-Beverly Act that guarantees certain discovery. Additionally, Tesla Motors asserts there is nothing that states the discovery that is conducted in arbitration has to be the same as that which is conducted when a case proceeds in a California Superior Court.The Court finds that the Order Agreement is not substantively unconscionable. The Arbitration Provision in the Order Agreement provides for a neutral arbitrator; does not require consumer to pay unreasonable costs as a condition of access to the arbitration forum; provides for other types of relief that would otherwise be available in court if a court or arbitrator decides that any part of the agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy; provides for consumer to take an individual risk dispute to small claims court; allows for the arbitration to take place in the city county or state of the consumer; and allows for exchange of documents, information, testimony of witnesses at the hearing, use of exhibits, and any other type of information exchange not contemplated by the rules if the arbitrator determines such additional information exchange is needed to provide for a fundamentally fair process under the AAA rules.Public PolicyIn opposition, Plaintiffs argue the arbitration agreement is void as against public policy because it precludes them from fairly vindicating their statutory rights under the Song-Beverly Act. In fact, Plaintiffs contend Rule 22 contravenes their substantive rights under Song-Beverly Section 1794, subdivision (c), and that it precludes Plaintiffs from obtaining adequate discovery to establish willful misconduct required to establish civil penalties. Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue there is no evidence that before Tesla Motors presented Plaintiffs with the Order Agreement it advised them oftheir potential damages, including civil penalties, and that Rule 22, would preclude them from discovery that would enable them to establish civil penalties in arbitration. Lastly, Plaintiffs argue there is no evidence that they were aware of their rights under the act, which suggests unequal bargaining power between consumers, unaware of their rights, and manufacturers seeking to circumvent its statutory obligations.In reply, Tesla Motors argues California has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution. (Brodke v. Alphatec Spine Inc. (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1569, 73 Cal. Rptr. 3d 554.) Furthermore, Tesla Motors asserts courts have expressly held that Song-Beverly claims can be compelled to binding arbitration. Moreover, Tesla Motors contends nowhere does the Arbitration Provision limit the causes of action or remedies available under the Song-Beverly Act and Plaintiffs does not cite a single case in which it found that binding arbitration conflicts with the right and remedies under the Song-Beverly Act.In Brodke v. Alphatec Spine Inc. (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1569, the court held that Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1281 and 1281.2 “reflect a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution.” (Brodke v. Alphatec Spine Inc. (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1569, 1577.) However, “there is no public policy in favor of compelling arbitration where the moving party does not satisfy the requirements of section 1281.2.” (Id.) “Nor is there a public policy which would compel the enforcement of a contract on behalf of a party who denies the very existence of the contract sought to be enforced.” (Id.)The Court finds that public policy supports compelling Plaintiffs’ claims to arbitration in this present case. First, Tesla Motors made a prior demand for arbitration as required under Civil Procedure Section 1281.2. Second, Plaintiffs did not deny the existence of Arbitration Provision in the Order Agreement.Therefore, Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED and the action STAYED pending the outcome of the arbitration.Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.