 Case Number:  24STCV20149    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  19 DEWEY DEMETRO, JR. v. ROBERT RAMIREZTENTATIVE RULING 
After consideration of the briefing filed and oral
argument at the hearing, Defendant Robert Ramirez’s unopposed Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is
SUSTAINED in its entirety. Leave to amend is DENIED. 
Counsel for Defendant to submit a proposed judgment of
dismissal. 
The Court sets a Non-Appearance Care Review Re: Proposed
Judgment of Dismissal for November 27, 2024. At 8:30 a.m., in Department 19 of
the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Counsel for Defendant to give notice. 
 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE 
This action alleges denial of due process. Plaintiff
Dewey Demetro, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) brings suit against Defendant Robert Ramirez
(“Defendant”). 
The Complaint does not comply with California Rules of
Court, rule 2.112 and the Court cannot discern any specific cause of action
alleged. 
Plaintiff generally alleges that Defendant Ramirez improperly
rejected a request for entry of default and/or default judgment that Plaintiff sought
by way of Judicial Council Form CIV-100 filed in a different action. 
Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint (the “Demurrer”). 
GROUNDS FOR DEMURRER 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f), Defendant demurs to the Complaint on the grounds that
it fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is
uncertain. 
MEET/CONFER 
The Court finds that Defendant satisfied the meet and
confer requirements. (See Lindsay N. Fraxier-Krane Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s unopposed request to take
judicial notice of Exhibits 1-14. (Evid. Code, § 453(d), (h).) 
DISCUSSION 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff failed to file an
opposition, effectively consenting to the Court sustaining the Demurrer without
leave to amend. (See Cal. R. Ct., 8.54(c) [“A failure to oppose a motion may be
deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.”]; Sexton v. Superior Court
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
I.      DEMURRER 
A.    Demurrer for Uncertainty 
A demurrer to a pleading lies where the pleading is
uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “Uncertain” includes ambiguous and
unintelligible. (Id.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; see Code Civ. Proc.
§430.10(e); see also Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group) § 7:85 [“A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond--i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her."].) Moreover, “[a]
special demurrer should be overruled where the allegations of the complaint are
sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.”
(Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643.) “Generally, the
failure to specify the uncertain aspects of a complaint will defeat a demurrer
based on the grounds of uncertainty.” (Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809, (disapproved on other
grounds in Katzberg v. Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 300,
328, fn. 30) (citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.60 & Coons v. Thompson
(1946) 75 Cal.App.2d 687, 690).) 
The Court agrees with Defendant that the Complaint is so
uncertain that Defendant cannot reasonably respond. The Court finds, as argued
by Defendant, that the Complaint is largely unintelligible, fails to identify
any causes of action, and fails to allege “facts with sufficient clarity to
inform defendant Ramirez of the issues to be met.” (Demurrer, p. 7.) 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the entire Complaint on the ground that it is uncertain. 
B.    Demurrer for Sufficiency 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740,
747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 452; Stevens
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.
App. 4th 968, 994.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.
We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v. California Department
of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007.) “The only issue involved
in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege
facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
 Defendant demurs to the entire Complaint on the ground
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, arguing
that (1) pursuant to the doctrine of quasi-judicial immunity, Defendant is
immune and cannot be held liable on the Complaint; and (2) it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Demurrer at pp. 4-7.) 
1.     Quasi-Judicial Immunity 
The Court agrees with Defendant that it is apparent from
the face of the Complaint and matters judicially noticeable that Defendant is
immune and cannot be held liable on the Complaint. 
As explained by the Court of Appeal in Howard v.
Drapkin (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 843: 
The concept of judicial immunity is
longstanding and absolute, with its roots in English common law. It bars civil
actions against judges for acts performed in the exercise of their judicial
functions and it applies to all judicial determinations, including those
rendered in excess of the judge's jurisdiction, no matter how erroneous or even
malicious or corrupt they may be. The judge is immune unless he has acted in
the clear absence of all jurisdiction. Beyond doubt, the doctrine of civil
immunity of the judiciary in the performance of judicial functions is deeply
rooted in California law.
(Id. at 851–852 (internal citations and quotations
omitted).) 
“Under the concept of ‘quasi-judicial immunity,’
California courts have extended absolute judicial immunity to persons other
than judges if those persons act in a judicial or quasi-judicial capacity.” (Id.
at 852-853.) As explained by the Court of Appeal in Howard: 
 …courts look at the nature of the
challenged act which a judge has performed to determine if it is truly judicial
and therefore deserving of judicial immunity. So also, in determining whether a
person is acting in a quasi-judicial fashion, the courts look at ‘the nature of
the duty performed [to determine] whether it is a judicial act—not the name or
classification of the officer who performs it, and many who are properly
classified as executive officers are invested with limited judicial powers.’ (Pearson
v. Reed [(1935) 6 Cal.App.2d 277] at pp. 286-287.) In Pearson, the
court found that a prosecutor, in examining evidence submitted to him and in
determining whether to prosecute a case against a defendant, is performing an
act that is judicial in nature, thus making him both a quasi-judicial officer
and an executive branch officer. (Ibid.)
(Id.) 
Here, the Complaint challenges that the rejection of
Plaintiff’s request for entry of default and/or default judgment in an action
pending in the Los Angeles Superior Court. The Court finds, as argued by
Defendant, that the rejection of Plaintiff’s request was a judicial in nature
and therefore Defendant, pursuant to the doctrine of quasi-judicial immunity,
cannot be held liable on Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
2.     Failure to State a Claim 
Additionally, for the same reasons discussed above in the
analysis on Defendant’s demurrer for uncertainty, the Court agrees with
Defendant that the Complaint “¿does not identify any cause of action,” and “does not state facts, even
liberally construed, sufficient to constitute any cause of ¿action against Ramirez.” (Demurrer at
pp. 5-6.) 
For all the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS
Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint in its entirety. 
II.   LEAVE TO AMEND 
Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by
demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and
liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question. (Velez v. Smith (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1174; see also McKenney
v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 78.) The burden of
demonstrating a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment “is squarely on the plaintiff.” (Id.; see also Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [“Plaintiff must show in what manner he
can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of
his pleading.”].) 
Given that Defendant is immune from liability, the Court
does not find that there is a reasonable possibility that the defects can be
cured by amendment. Moreover, by failing to file any opposition, Plaintiff
failed to request leave to amend and fails to demonstrate a reasonable
possibility that the defects can be cured by amendment. 
Accordingly, leave to amend is DENIED. 
Defendant to give notice.
 