  Case Number:  19STCV15911    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  SEC revised: DOE v. COLLEGE
HOSPITAL, INC.  
CASE
NO.:  19STCV15911
HEARING:  12/19/24
 
#1
 
    
I.       
Defendant’s
unopposed Motion to Compel Custodian of Records for Alexander Korchmarev,
M.D.’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and
Production of Business Records is GRANTED. 
 
   
II.       
Defendant’s
unopposed Motion to Compel Alexander Korchmarev, M.D.’s Compliance with
Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Business Records
is OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT pursuant to Defendant’s Notice of Taking Motion
to Compel Alexander Korchmarev, M.D. to Comply with Deposition Subpoena for
Personal Appearance and Production of Business Records Off Calendar FILIED on
December 17, 2024. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
No
Oppositions filed as of December 17, 2024.  
 
This
dependent abuse/neglect action was filed by Plaintiff JANE DOE (“Plaintiff”) on
May 7, 2019. On March 7, 2023, the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
was filed. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that “On April 27, 2017, she left her home and everything in it,
including her cell phone, her identification, and her beloved dog. Plaintiff’s
mind had completely detached from reality and her judgment and ability to care
for her basic needs, welfare, and safety went with it. Plaintiff’s delusions
and psychosis led her to actively place herself in high-risk, life-threatening
situations.” (SAC ¶3.) “At 1:30 a.m. on May 2, 2017… [a] Critical Assessment
Team… arrived on-scene, assessed Plaintiff as gravely disabled, and placed
Plaintiff on an involuntary hold pursuant to section 5150 of the California
Welfare and Institutions Code (‘5150 hold’).” (SAC ¶5.) “Even though Plaintiff
entered College Hospital gravely disabled with no ability to care for her basic
needs or safety, only six days later, still gravely disabled and a danger to
herself, Plaintiff was ‘discharged to self’ with some bus tokens, so that she
could ostensibly bus herself away from Defendants facilities and into
homelessness.” (SAC ¶7.) “After being dumped by Defendants, Plaintiff wandered
the streets for 15 days, utterly incapable of providing for her own basic needs
and safety. With no ability to defend herself or avoid highly dangerous
situations, she suffered two sexual assaults during the course of the 15 days.”
(SAC ¶9.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
SAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Dependent Adult Abuse; 
(2) Professional Negligence; 
(3) Unfair Business Practice; 
(4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and 
(5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
 
Given
Plaintiff’s allegations, Plaintiff has placed her physical and mental
conditions at issue. Moreover, since the Motions are unopposed, it is
undisputed that the documents and testimony sought from her treating
psychiatrist are relevant to this action. 
 
The Custodian of Records for Alexander Korchmarev, M.D., is ORDERED to comply with Defendant’s Deposition Subpoena
for Personal Appearance and appear for their deposition and produce the records
requested on mutually agreeable dates and times, within 30 days from the date
of the Court’s issuance of this Order. The date may be extended by agreement of
the parties. 
 
“If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness…, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b)…may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (CCP §1987.1(a).)
“Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to answer as a
witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when required, may be
punished as a contempt by the court issuing the subpoena.” (CCP §1991.) 
 
Defendants issued the Deposition
Subpoenas to non-party, the Custodian of Records for Alexander Korchmarev,
M.D., on or about February 8, 2024.   
 
The unopposed Motion is
GRANTED. 
 
CCP §2025.450, which governs motions to compel deposition,
provides that “[i]f, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party or a
person designated by an organization that is a party…without having served a
valid objection under §2025.410, fails to appear for examination…the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony.” (CCP §2025.450(a).)
 
The
Custodian of Records for Alexander Korchmarev,
M.D. is not
a party to this action. CCP §2025.450, does not provide a basis to award
sanctions against non-party witnesses.  
 
The
request for sanctions is DENIED.  