 Case Number:  23NWCV03541    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  SEC MELLO-NAVEJAS v. FORD
MOTOR COMPANY
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV03541
HEARING:  12/19/24
 
#8
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents (set one) is CONTINUED to Thursday, January
30, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This lemon law action
was filed on October 2, 2023. Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request for Production of Documents (“RPD”) (set one) Nos. 1, 3,
8, 13, 16, 20, 28, 48, 50, 60, 66, 72, 76, 77, 86, 87, 88, 90, 99, 100, 107,
108, 114, 115, 116, 118, 120, 122, and 124.
In Opposition,
Defendant stands by its objections. 
Dept F. of
the Norwalk Courthouse’s custom is to issue a standard CMC Order concerning
discovery in lemon law actions. It has come to the Court’s attention that one
was not issued in this case. The Court issues the following Order at this time:

 
Within 30
days of this Order, Defendant shall provide copies of the following documents,
which have not already been produced, that are in its possession, custody,
and/or control to Plaintiff: 
 
i.            
Purchase or lease contracts concerning the
Subject Vehicle, including any associated documents reflecting original
equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) or aftermarket equipment installed at the
dealership, extended limited warranties (“ELW”) or service contracts, and any
other writings signed by the Plaintiff at the point of sale. 
ii.           
Work orders, repair orders, and invoices
(including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and
repair activity concerning the Subject Vehicle. 

iii.          
Rental car or loaner agreements regarding
alternate transportation provided during service or repair visits concerning
the Subject Vehicle. 
iv.          
Records of communications with dealer
personnel, and/or factory representatives and Defendant’s call center or
customer assistance personnel concerning the Subject Vehicle. 
v.           
Warranty Claims submitted to and/or approved by
Defendant concerning the Subject Vehicle. 
vi.          
Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or similar
policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the date the
Subject Vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed. 
vii.        
Defendant’s written statements of policy and/or
procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement
pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the Subject Vehicle was purchased or
leased to the date the lawsuit was filed. 
viii.       
A list or compilation of customer complaints in
Defendant’s electronically stored information database that are substantially
similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in
California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. A
substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of reported
symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a
repair problem as the description listed in any work order or repair order for
the subject vehicle, rother than routine or scheduled maintenance items. The
list provided by Defendant may be in chart or spreadsheet format, and shall
include the VIN, date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location,
and text of the other customers’ reporter complaint, but shall not include the
other customers’ names, addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other
personal identifying information.
ix.          
Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased or leased in California for the same year, make, and
model of the Subject Vehicle. 
x.           
Copies of any repair instruction, bulletin, or
other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair order/invoice
records for the Subject Vehicle.
xi.          
Receipts or other written evidence supporting
any incidental or consequential damages claimed by Plaintiff. 
 
If
a party believes any of this information should be subject to a protective
order, that party shall serve and file a proposed protective order within 5
days of this order and the partes shall meet and confer as to agreeable
language for the same. The default will be the standard Protective Order
provided by the LASC in its website. The information may be provided to the
opposing party in electronic from as a PDF in the option of the producing
party. Plaintiff and defendant shall serve verification with eh documents they
produce. Any additional requests for documents may only be propounded by
stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause). 
 
Given this
Court’s Order concerning the production of documents many (if not all) of the discovery
issues outlined in the Subject Motion may be moot. To the extent that this
Order does not address all of the issues raised by the Subject Motion, the
Court CONTINUES this hearing as indicated above, and the parties are ORDERED to
meet and confer in good faith over any remaining disputed issues. 
 
Counsel are
advised that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending
letters stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level
of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more
complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be
warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort
may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction
between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery
requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.
Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and
procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel are
ORDERED to make efforts to resolve
the any remaining disputed issues. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
outlining the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before Friday, January 24, 2025.
 
 