 Case Number:  24NWCV02089    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  SEC CITY OF HUNTINGTON
PARK v. PAK 
CASE NO.:  24NWCV02089
HEARING:  12/19/24
 
#9
 
Plaintiff CITY OF HUNTINGTON PARK’s Unopposed Motion for the Appointment
of a Receiver, and for Entry of Related Injunctive Orders During the Pendency
of the Receivership is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
This action for public nuisance was filed by Plaintiff CITY OF
HUNTINGTON PARK (“City”) against Defendants BRIAN SUNG HO PAK; SOPHIA HA PAK;
NK ENTERPRISE, INC.; BN COIN CARWASH, INC.; BANK OF HOPE; and DOES 1-10 on July
9, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges the following relevant facts: “The Subject
Property is located on a busy strip of East Florence Avenue, adjacent to
numerous retail businesses and restaurants. The Subject Property consists of
approximately 10,530 square feet and has been improved with a 1,750 square foot
commercial structure consisting of a four stall, self-carwash, as well as a
small parking lot. The Subject Property is located in the City’s CG-Commercial
General zone. [¶] Since approximately October 2023, the Subject Property has
been maintained in a dilapidated state with significant property maintenance
and building code violations. An October 18. 2023 inspection of the Subject
Property revealed: (1) numerous inoperable vehicles stored at the Subject Property
with indicia that they were being used for human habitation; (2) the presence
of a significant amount t of graffiti; (3) accumulations of trash and discarded
personal property throughout the parking areas; and (4) a deteriorated roof on
the easternmost portion of the carwash structure that appeared to be on the
verge of collapse. A subsequent review of City records further revealed that
Defendants were operating the carwash without a required City business license
and conditional use permit (‘CUP’).” (Complaint ¶¶9-10.)  The City issued two Notices of Violation.
(Complaint ¶¶15-16.) “Since February 15, 2024, Defendants have taken no action
to abate any of the unlawful conditions at the Subject Property, including in
response to the Second Notice.” (Complaint ¶17.) 
 
Defendant Bank of Hope (“Bank”) filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendants BN Coin Carwash, Inc.; NK Enterprise, Inc.; Sophia Ha Pak’ and
Brian Sung Ho Pak on September 6, 2024. The Bank indicates that on or about
August 17, 2021, BN Coin Carwash, Inc. and NK Enterprise, Inc., as
co-borrowers, obtained a U.S. Small Business Administration (“SBA”) loan from
bank related to the Subject Property and the related coin-operated self-service
carwash business located at the Subject Property. The Bank’s Loan is secured by
the Subject Property. 
 
The City now moves for entry of an order for the appointment of a
receiver, and for related injunctive orders during the pendency of the
receivership. 
 
In papers separately filed from the subject Motion,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Bank of Hope joins in the City’s Motion, indicating
that 
 
The following Defendants defaulted on September 13, 2024: Brian
Sung Ho Pak; Sophia Ha Pak; NK Enterprise, Inc.; and BN Coin Carwash, Inc. 
 
As of December 16, 2024, no Opposition(s) have been filed to the
Subject Motion. 
 
In determining whether to appoint a receiver, this Court considers
the availability and efficacy of other remedies in determining whether to
employ the extraordinary remedy of receivership, but the availability of other
remedies does not, in and of itself, preclude the use of a receivership. (City
and County of San Francisco v. Daley (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 745.)
Instead, “[t]he appointment of a receiver rests largely in the discretion of
the trial court, and its action appointing a receiver will not be disturbed by
an appellate court in the absence of showing of abuse of discretion.” (In re
Marriage of Economou (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1466, 1484.) .
 
In support of its Motion, the City submits the Declaration of Paul
Bollier, Code Enforcement Manager for the City of Huntington Park. Mr. Bollier
opines: “The Subject Property constitutes a public nuisance and imminent hazard
to persons and property in the community, and the public at large. Given Mr.
Pak’s months’ long unwillingness to even communicate with myself or other
members of the City’s Code Enforcement Department, it is highly unlikely that
he will voluntarily comply with the City’s property maintenance standards by
abating the unlawful conditions at the Subject Property. The Subject Property
is clearly a magnate for transients, other trespassers and vandals, who have
and continue to dump junk, trash and debris throughout the exterior portions of
the premises, reside there despite the fact that it is neither zoned nor safe
for human habitation. And each of these trespassers is exposed to a risk of
significant harm due to the rapidly deteriorating roof of the carwash, which
could collapse and severely injure or trap anyone on the premises at that time.
In consideration of all of these factors, it is my professional opinion a court
appointed receiver is the only means of brining the Subject Property into
compliance with the HMPC in a timely and cost-effective fashion.” (Bollier
Decl., ¶30.) 
 
CCP §564(b)(1)(2) and (9) authorizes this Court to permit the
appointment of a Receiver. 
 
Since the defaulted defendants have failed to Answer, ceased
paying their debts to the Bank, and failed to respond to the City’s efforts to
remediate the Subject Property, the Court finds that the appointment of a
receiver and the related injunction orders sought to be enforced throughout the
duration of the receivership, are proper. The Motion is GRANTED. The Court will
sign the Proposed Order submitted in conjunction with the Moving Papers. 