 Case Number:  21STCV20584    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action.
Plaintiffs Michael Hutchinson (“Hutchinson”) and Jade Post-Ladou (“Post-Ladou”
and collectively “Plaintiffs”) presents that: (1) on July 20, 2020 Hutchinson
was an employee of MC Industrial, Inc. (“MC”); (2) was performing outdoor work
in Rosamond, California where temperatures exceed 100 degrees; (3) safety
measures were required to protect the workers due to the heat and Defendant
McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. (“McCarthy”) was responsible for providing MC
employees with such protection, including providing qualified medical personnel
to evaluate and treat MC employees; (4) Defendant Isidro Rascon (“Rascon”) was
employed by McCarthy as the safety manager on the job site who was responsible
for ensuring that workers had adequate share, cooling, water, and that any
heat-related illnesses be appropriately treated; (5) Defendant IOSM, Inc. (“IOSM”)
was responsible for providing qualified emergency medical technicians or
paramedics on the job site to provide workers with evaluation and treatment of
heat-related illness; (6) Defendant Christopher Ramirez (“Ramirez”) was
employed by IOSM to provide employees of MC with evaluation and treatment of
heat-related illness; (7) Defendant Palmdale Regional Medical Center (“PRMC”)
was responsible to care for sick and injured individuals that presented to its
emergency department; (8) Defendant Envision Physician Services (“Envision”) is
a business entity that provides emergency room physicians and other medical
personnel to PRMC; and (9) Defendants Raymond Ruiz (“Ruiz”), a physician, and
John Bartolozzi (“Bartolozzi”), a physician assistant, were agents or employees
of EPS and were responsible to treat sick and injured individuals who presented
to the emergency department of PRMC. Plaintiffs allege that on July 20, 2020,
(1) Hutchinson began suffering the effects of extreme heat and required medical
evaluation and treatment for heat-related illness but Rascon and Ramirez
negligently failed to recognize that Hutchinson was suffering from
hyponatremia, failed to give Hutchinson adequate hydration, and failed to call
for emergency medical transport to the nearest hospital emergency department;
(2) Hutchinson presented to the emergency department of PRMC while suffering
from heat-related illness and Ruiz, Hutchinson’s attending physician, did not
examine or evaluate Hutchinson; (3) Hutchinson was seen and by Bartolozzi where
Hutchinson was correctly diagnosed with hyponatremia, but Bartolozzi exceeded
the scope of his license and engaged in the unauthorized practice of medicine
by not consulting with Ruiz or any other physician before administering
incorrect treatment; and (4) as a result of the negligence of all defendants,
Hutchinson suffered brain damage causing economic and non-economic damages.
 
On June 02, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint. While the Complaint is titled simply as “Complaint for
Damages,” it appears to be two causes of action – (1) Negligence; and (2) Loss
of Consortium.
 
On July 14, 2021, PRMC filed its
Answer.
 
On July 21, 2021, Bartolozzi
filed his Answer.
 
On August 11, 2021, McCarthy and
Rascon filed their respective Answers. On the same date, McCarthy and Rascon
filed a Cross-Complaint together alleging six causes of action for: (1) Breach
of Contract by McCarthy and Rascon against IOSM[1],
(2) Express Indemnity by McCarthy and Rascon against IOSM; (3) Express Duty to
Defend by McCarthy against IOSM; (3) Express Duty to Defend by Rascon against IOSM;
(4) Equitable Indemnity by McCarthy and Rascon against IOSM; and (6)
Declaratory Relief by McCarthy and Rascon against IOSM.
 
On August 12, 2021, IOSM filed
its Answer to the Complaint.
 
On August 20, 2021, IOSM filed
its Answer to the Cross-Complaint.
 
On September 23, 2021, Envision filed
its Answer.
 
On March 24, 2022, Ramirez filed
his Answer.
 
On August 09, 2022, McCarthy
filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the Cross-Complaint against IOSM,
granted on October 25, 2022. 
 
On August 12, 2022, Rascon filed
a Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the Corss-Complaint against IOSM,
granted on October 28, 2022. 
 
On August 23, 2022, the parties
entered a stipulation to continue trial, the final status conference (“FSC”),
and related motion and discovery dates. 
 
On October 22, 2023, PRMC filed a
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication as to
the Complaint, granted on January 23, 2024. 
 
On May 02, 2023, the parties
entered another stipulation to continue trial, the FSC, and related motion and
discovery dates.
 
On July 12, 2023, Ruiz and
Bartolozzi filed their Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Complaint, granted
January 23, 2024. 
 
On October 16, 202, Ramirez and IOSM
filed a Motion to Continue Trial Date and All Trial Related Dates, and McCarthy
and Rascon filed a stipulation for a protective order regarding production,
use, and handling of confidential documents. The protective order was granted.
The Motion to Continue Trial Date and All Trial Related Dates was taken off
calendar on November 06, 2023.
 
On October 19, 2023, Ramirez and IOSM
attempted to file a Motion to Transfer; however, the motion was rejected with a
notice that stated: “- The Court no longer accepts this form to request to
transfer a complicated PI case. If the Court finds a case is a complicated PI
case it will request permission to transfer the case from the Supervising
Judge, Civil Litigation.”
 
On November 14, 2023, Judge
Jaskol held a hearing in which she informed the parties: (1) a request had been
made to the Supervising Judge, Civil Litigation, in Department 1, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse to transfer this case to an Independent Calendar Court. The Court
finds this case is a complicated
Personal Injury Case; (2) counsel for Plaintiffs would be notified of the new
courtroom assignment and will be directed to give notice to all other parties;
(3) no further hearings will be held in Department 28 unless the Supervising
Judge does not agree the case is a complicated personal injury case.
 
On November 16, 2023, a Notice of
Transfer to North District was filed.
 
On December 05, 2023, the parties
entered a stipulation to continue a case management conference, subsequently
granted. 
 
On February 26, 2024, judgment
was entered as to PRMC due to the ruling on PRMC’s Motion for Summary Judgment.

 
On May 02, 2024, Arch Insurance
administered by Gallagher Bassett Services (“Arch”), lien claimant, filed a
Notice of First Lien in the sum of $261,725.49, upon entering settlement or
judgment in this action and applies for a first lien in the amount of any
additional sums that may be paid as workers’ compensation benefits to or on
behalf of Hutchinson before payment of any settlement or satisfaction of any
judgment in this matter, including an express reservation of all credit rights
under Cal. Lab. Code § 3861, et al. Arch notified the parties that at
the time of the incident, it was the workers’ compensation carrier for
Hutchinson’s employer and was obligated under duly issued and valid insurance
plan to pay workers’ compensation benefits to its employees.
 
On May 14, 2024, Rascon and
McCarthy filed their respective Motions for Summary Judgment.
 
On July 17, 2024, (1) Plaintiffs
filed their Oppositions; and (2) Defendants Ramirez and IOSM filed their
Oppositions. For clarity, the Court notes Defendants Ramirez and Isom have
filed together (i.e., one Opposition by Ramirez and IOSM for each Motion for
Summary Judgment). 
 
On July 25, 2024, McCarthy and
Rascon filed their Replies. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67 (“Juge”), citing¿FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
As an initial matter, the Court
notes that McCarthy filed a document titled “Response to Objections to Evidence”
as to IOSM and Ramirez’s Opposition. The Court is not in receipt of any
objections from IOSM. This filing is not at issue for these motions.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
– Both Motions for Summary Judgment request judicial notice of the
Complaint, Notice of Errata, and Arch’s Notice of First Lien. Each motion also
requests judicial notice of the Answers filed by McCarthy and Rascon,
respectively.
 
All requests for judicial notice are GRANTED under Cal. Evid. Code §
452(d).
 
Evidentiary Objections
– 
 
All evidentiary objections received by the Court are by McCarthy and
Rascon in their respective Reply briefs.
 



Objection


Party
  Direct To 


Ruling




Christopher Ramirez was an EMT
  but was acting in the role of first aid injury technician to provide basic
  first aid level care, not EMT level care. [Exhibit “A”: Christopher Ramirez
  depo. 8:20-25; 15:19-22; 52:19-53:8; 53:22-54:1; Blumberg declaration ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




The McCarthy
  subcontract with IOSM contemplated that the first aid technician would take
  direction regarding their duties from a McCarthy employee; that Mr. Ramirez
  would report to Mr. Rascon; and that Mr. Ramirez was required to take
  directions from Mr. Rascon. [Exhibit “B”: Virginia Siegel depo. 25:9-12;
  32:17-21; Blumberg decl ¶2.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Ramirez’s assessment of Mr.
  Hutchison was that he had a heatrelated illness and had reported a lack of
  sweating. [McCarthy’s exhibit “27”; Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 54:14-22;
  58:3-14; Blumberg decl ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




In general,
  when Mr. Ramirez finished his assessment, the worker would either be sent to
  the safety trailer or a member of the McCarthy safety team would come and ask
  questions. [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 35:24-36:8; Blumberg decl ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




It was Mr. Ramirez’s duty to
  inform the McCarthy safety team about injuries or issues that they weren’t
  aware of but didn’t advise them about what he thought was going on medically
  with Mr. Hutchison. [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 68:12- 69:3; Blumberg decl
  ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




After an
  assessment of a heat-related illness, there is always a consultation with the
  safety manager. [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 29:3-6; Blumberg decl ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




The McCarthy safety team would
  be made aware of every case and would make the decision whether a worker
  could leave. [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 35:8-19; Blumberg decl ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Ramirez had
  been instructed by the McCarthy safety team of the policy that workers with a
  heatrelated illness would be sent home [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 25:19-
  27:16; Exhibit “C”: M. Hutchison depo. Vol 2, 203:16-25; Blumberg decl ¶¶1,
  3.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Ramirez would not have been
  the person to tell Mr. Hutchison he could leave because he did not have the
  authority to send people home or tell them that they can or can’t leave.
  [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 33:20-25; 34:16-21; Blumberg decl ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




The decision to
  send workers with heat-related illness home was made by the McCarthy safety
  team. [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 27:21- 24; Blumberg decl ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Rascon was aware of when Mr.
  Hutchison was brought to the trailer, and was present during the entire time.
  [Exhibit “D”: Isidro Rascon depo, Vol 1, 52:24-53:5; 54:7-9; Blumberg decl
  ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Rascon told
  Mr. Hutchison that due to his vitals, it would be unsafe to return to work
  and that he would need a doctor’s clearance before he could return to work.
  [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 29:16-30:6; Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo., Vol 1,
  65:9-15; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




A member of the McCarthy safety
  team instructed Mr. Hutchison to drink a bottle of water mixed with IV
  electrolyte contents. [Exhibit “A”: Ramirez depo. 24:2-25:3; Blumberg decl
  ¶1.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Rascon had
  previously worked as a medical assistant in a doctor’s office. [Exhibit “D”:
  Rascon depo., Vol 1, 9:21-10-6; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


SUSTAINED




On July 20, 2020, Mr. Rascon’s
  job involved the enforcement of heat illness protocols. [Exhibit “D”: Rascon
  depo. 15:14-16; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Mr. Rascon had
  heat illness training including identification of signs and symptoms of heat
  exhaustion and heat stroke. [Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo. 12:23-14:8;
  14:22-15:13; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




The daily morning safety
  meetings were run by Mr. Rascon; they were never run by MCI. [Exhibit “B”:
  Hutchison depo. Vol. 2, 187:6-15; Blumberg decl ¶2.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Pursuant to the
  McCarthy Site Specific Heat Illness Prevention Policy, “the McCarthy air
  conditioned trailer shall be used for all preventive cool down rest and
  recovery periods.” [Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo. 21:18-22:24; and deposition
  exhibit “2” (Exhibit “E” herein); Blumberg decl ¶¶4, 5.] Any worker showing
  signs of heat illness would be escorted to the project trailer which was
  where the offices were located and where Mr. Rascon was. [Exhibit “D”: Rascon
  depo. 29:16-22.; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




It was Mr. Rascon’s job to
  ensure that everybody was educated about heat illness and prevention.
  [Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo. Vol 2, 18:14-20; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Part of Mr.
  Rascon’s job was to observe whether there was compliance with the heat
  illness prevention policies and perform a daily audit to ensure that there
  were shade structures, that there was water, that there was cool-down
  stations for everybody. [Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo. Vol 2, 23:3-12; Blumberg
  decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




McCarthy retained the
  responsibility to implement high heat procedures when the temperatures
  equaled or exceeded 95 degrees by notifying everybody on the site about the
  protocol that had to be followed. [Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo. Vol 2,
  24:17-25:4; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




IOSM was to
  provide McCarthy with a first aid technician, not an Emergency Medical Care
  Technician (EMT.) A first aid technician does not need credentials or
  certification in such things as basic life support. [Siegel depo. 12:1-15;
  Blumberg decl ¶2.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




McCarthy’s Site Specific Heat
  Illness Prevention Policy required that a worker showing signs of a
  heat-related illness would not be sent home without being provided with
  emergency medical services. He defined “emergency medical services as “That
  if they needed any type of emergency medical help, the services would be
  available for the employee.” He defined an emergency medical technician as
  “somebody who is trained to respond to any type of emergency or situation
  with a person who is feeling ill or had an incident, or an injury that
  occurred. And they had the medical knowledge to assist and respond to that
  person's needs.” [Exhibit “D”: Rascon depo, vol. 1, 22:4-12; 30:10-31:6;
  31:21-32:5; Blumberg decl ¶4.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




McCarthy’s
  “California Heat Illness Prevention Policy” instructed that “Both sunstroke
  and heat exhaustion are serious matters. In both cases, the body is reacting
  to a lifethreatening situation. Do not take chances.” “Symptoms of Heat
  Stroke [include] Dry, hot skin with no sweating, • Mental confusion.” “Be
  prepared to provide first aid for any heat-related illness and call emergency
  services (i.e., call 911) if a worker shows signs and symptoms of heat
  stroke. “What to Do for Heat-Related Illness • Call 911 (or local emergency
  number) at once.” This was also a Cal-OSHA mandate. (Exhibits “E” and “F”;
  Blumberg decl ¶¶ 5, 6.)


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




Michael Hutchison testified:
  "I stopped sweating. I forgot how to do my job. I was feeling dizzy. I
  wasn't thinking clearly." [M. Hutchison depo. Vol. 1, 52:13-19; Blumberg
  decl, ¶3.]


Plaintiffs


OVERRULED




IOSM had a
  first aid technician at the subject project, not an emergency medical
  technician (“EMT”). Supporting Evidence: Deposition of Christopher Ramirez,
  April 4, 2023, 31:4-10, for Los Angeles County Superior Court case no.
  21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit D to Defendants’ Evidence in Support).
  Deposition of Virigina Siegel, November 2, 2023, 12:25-13:8, for Los Angeles
  County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit E to
  Defendants’ Evidence in Support).


IOSM and Ramirez


OVERRULED




IOSM’s scope of services
  included assistance with health-related programs, but this did not include
  heat-related site programs. Supporting Evidence: McCarthy’s Evidence,
  Exhibits 22, 23. Deposition of Virigina Siegel, November 2, 2023, 22:1-22;
  23:5-9, for Los Angeles County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached
  as Exhibit E to Defendants’ Evidence in Support).


IOSM
  and Ramirez


OVERRULED




As the
  controlling contractor, McCarthy was responsible for making sure that all
  subcontractors would comply with the programs. Supporting Evidence:
  Deposition of Virigina Siegel, November 2, 2023, 23:10-24, for Los Angeles
  County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit E to
  Defendants’ Evidence in Support)


IOSM and Ramirez


OVERRULED




IOSM did not participate in a
  heat-prevention program at the subject project. Supporting Evidence:
  Deposition of Virigina Siegel, November 2, 2023, 24:9-16, for Los Angeles
  County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit E to
  Defendants’ Evidence in Support).


IOSM
  and Ramirez


OVERRULED




The first aid
  technician for IOSM was instructed to stay at or near the first aid station
  at the subject project. Supporting Evidence: Deposition of Virigina Siegel,
  November 2, 2023, 24:18-25:8, for Los Angeles County Superior Court case no.
  21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit E to Defendants’ Evidence in Support).


Iosm and Ramirez


OVERRULED




IOSM took its direction for
  services at the subject project directly from McCarthy. Supporting Evidence:
  Deposition of Virigina Siegel, November 2, 2023, 25:9-12, for Los Angeles
  County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit E to Defendants’
  Evidence in Support).


IOSM
  and Ramirez


OVERRULED




McCarthy
  engaged in direct actions by advising Plaintiff that it was not safe to
  return to work at the subject project. Supporting Evidence: Deposition of
  Christopher Ramirez, April 4, 2023, 29:16-18, for Los Angeles County Superior
  Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit D to Defendants’ Evidence in
  Support).


IOSM and Ramirez


OVERRULED




McCarthy was involved in every
  heatrelated illness and every heat-related injury at the subject project, in
  that there always were consultations with the safety manager for McCarthy.
  Supporting Evidence: Deposition of Christopher Ramirez, April 4, 2023, 28:20-29:6,
  for Los Angeles County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as
  Exhibit D to Defendants’ Evidence in Support).


IOSM
  and Ramirez


OVERRULED




Rascon informed
  Plaintiff that it was unsafe to return to work at the subject project.
  Supporting Evidence: Deposition of Christopher Ramirez, April 4, 2023,
  29:19-22, for Los Angeles County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584
  (attached as Exhibit D to Defendants' Evidence in Support).


IOSM and Ramirez


OVERRULED




It was the decision of
  McCarthy's safety managers as to whether Plaintiff would or would not return
  to work at the subject project. Supporting Evidence: Deposition of
  Christopher Ramirez, April 4, 2023, 29:23-30:6, for Los Angeles County
  Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit D to Defendants'
  Evidence in Su ort .


IOSM
  and Ramirez


OVERRULED




Ramirez did not
  believe that it was his responsibility to provide medical advice and/or
  assistance to Plaintiff. Supporting Evidence: McCarthy's Evidence, Exhibits
  22, 23. Deposition of Christopher Ramirez, April 4, 2023, 68:24-69:3, for Los
  Angeles County Superior Court case no. 21STCV20584 (attached as Exhibit D to
  Defendants' Evidence in Support.


IOSM and Ramirez


OVERRULED



 
 
Application – While
McCarthy and Rascon’s presentation of the opening summary of the argument,
introduction, and presentation of evidence differs, the motions rely on the
same undisputed material facts, supporting evidence, and arguments. As such,
the Court will address the motions with one tentative. The Court has reviewed
the concurrently filed separate statements and the separate statements show
that the undisputed material facts (“UMFs”) that McCarthy and Rascon rely on the
same, with each addressing the same exhibits. To the extent any argument
differs, the Court shall make clear which motion it is addressing.
 
McCarthy and Rascon argue: (1) Hutchinson’s
Negligence Cause of Action has no merit because the holdings in Privette v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (“Privette”) and Sandoval v.
Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256 (“Sandoval”), which prevent
an employee of an independent contractor from recovering against the individual
who obtained the independent contractor, apply to both McCarthy and Rascon; (2)
as to McCarthy, Hutchinson was injured during the course of his employment with
MCI, an independent contractor hired by McCarthy, so McCarthy had no duty; (3)
as to Rascon, Rascon was working for McCarthy at the time of the alleged
incident and the Privette holding applies as Rascon, via his employer,
McCarthy, presumptively delegated to MCI the responsibility of workplace safety
for its employees; (4) allegations against IOSM do not prevent the application
of Privette to the hirer as McCarthy expressly delegated the
responsibility of first aid services at the Project to IOSM and Rascon is an
employee of McCarthy; (5) the exception laid out in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198 (“Hooker”) does not apply as
neither McCarthy nor Rascon retained control of heat illness prevention or
first aid services (i.e., heat illness prevention safety delegated to MCI and
first aid injury care to IOSM), neither McCarthy nor Rascon affirmatively
contributed to Hutchinson’s alleged injury as they did not contribute to
Hutchinson’s inability to cool down and they did not contribute to Hutchinson’s
alleged hyponatremia; (6) the holding in Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005)
37 Cal.4th 659 (“Kinsman”) does not apply as Plaintiffs do not assert a
premises liability cause of action; (7) Rascon is not concurrently liable for
his actions or inactions as he is an employee of McCarthy, the Privette
doctrine applies, so Rascon does not have a burden to negate other theoretical
possibilities not included within the Complaint; and (9) Post-Ladou’s loss of
consortium claim is dependent on Hutchinson’s negligence claim and, likewise,
fails. 
 
The Court notes that after
stating that Rascon does not need to address theoretical possibilities of
liability, Rascon’s Motion for Summary Judgment addresses various avenues of
liability such as special relationship and the Rowland [v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108] factors. 
 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
 
As alleged, McCarthy was
responsible for providing MCI employees with safety measures to protect workers
from heat related illnesses (Complaint 2:9-13); McCarthy was responsible for
providing qualified medical personnel to evaluate and treat MCI employees (id.
at 2:13-16); and Rascon was a safety manager on the job site who was
responsible for ensuring that MCI employees had adequate shade, cooling, water,
and that any heat related illnesses would be appropriately treated (id.
at 2:17-21.) 
 
As presented in Privette, “[w]hen
the conditions of compensation exist, recovery under the workers' compensation
scheme ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or death of an
employee.’ ” (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at 697 [internal
citations omitted].) As stated in Privette’s citation, this has been codified
in Cal. Lab. Code § 3602. Hutchinson received worker’s compensation from MCI. (See
Separate Statement at UMF No. 11-12.) UMF Number 12 directs the Court and the
parties to Hutchinson’s Deposition Volume Two which reads, in relevant part:
 
Q And it's my
understanding you filed a Workers Comp claim for the injuries that occurred on
July 20th of 22 2020; is that correct?
A That is correct.
 
[. . .]
 
Q Are you currently
receiving Workers' Comp benefits as a result of filing a Workers' Comp claim
from the injuries on July 20th of 2020?
A I am receiving a
small check from them. I don't know what it's for.
Q Do you know
whether or not your Workers' Comp claim is still active?
MR. BLUMBERG: I
think what you meant was has it been resolved.
BY MS. BARNETT:
Q Good question. Has
your Workers' Comp claim been resolved?
A No.
 
(Exh. 8, 183:20-23 and 184:2-14[2].)
 
Hutchinson has also provided
discovery responses identifying that a workers’ compensation claim has been
made. (Exh. 5 at 11.2.) Further, as mentioned in the background section and
brought up by McCarthy and Rascon, on May 02, 2024, Arch, lien claimant, filed
a Notice of First Lien in the sum of $261,725.49, upon entering settlement or
judgment in this action and applies for a first lien in the amount of any
additional sums that may be paid as workers’ compensation benefits to or on
behalf of Hutchinson before payment of any settlement or satisfaction of any
judgment in this matter, including an express reservation of all credit rights
under Cal. Lab. Code § 3861, et al. (See RHN Exh. 4.) 
 
It appears that Cal. Lab. Code §
3602, discussed in Privette, presents a bar to this action.
 
As to the allegations, IOSM has
provided the contract between itself and McCarthy which states that the service
to be performed by IOSM at the time of the incident was “on-site First Aid
Services.” (See Exh. 20, Exh. A; Exh. 22, Exh. A; and Exh. 23, Exh. A [amendment
which details services including first aid injury care, assistance with health-related
site programs, and assistance of the safety team as directed].) McCarthy and
Rascon also attach the subcontracts McCarthy had with MCI which state in
relevant part:
 
Subcontractor shall
maintain its own injury and illness prevention program appropriate to the Work
to be performed, which shall in all cases meet all applicable Federal, State
and/or Local safety related laws and regulations. Subcontractor shall fully comply
with the Hazard Communication Standard for the Construction Industry, and any
Federal, State or Local Right to Know Legislation and shall transmit
information to all parties concerning chemical or other hazards, as it pertains
to Subcontractor's Work. Subcontractor shall submit for review upon execution
of this Agreement its written injury and illness prevention program, Experience
Modifiers and Incidence Rates for the past three (3) years. No payments will be
made to Subcontractor until all such information is received by McCarthy.
McCarthy may issue a directive to Subcontractor with respect to a safety
compliance issue and may require Subcontractor to respond promptly to
McCarthy's directive. Failure of Subcontractor to correct the violation may cause
McCarthy, at its discretion, to take whatever steps are deemed to be necessary
to correct said violation. Any costs, including fines , penalties and
attorneys' fees , incurred by McCarthy because of such violation or any safety
citations related to Subcontractor will be the responsibility of Subcontractor.
 
(Exh. 11 at 3.19, Exh. 13 at
attached document at 3.19.)
 
McCarthy and Rascon have
successfully introduced evidence that negate an essential element of
negligence. 
 
“A cause of action for loss of
consortium is, by its nature, dependent on the existence of a cause of action
for tortious injury to a spouse.” (Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) As such, McCarthy and Rascon have successfully
introduced evidence that negate an essential element of the loss of consortium
claim.
 
As such, the burden shifts to
Plaintiffs to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.
 
As there are two Oppositions, the
Court will address each separately; however, the finding of a dispute of
material fact or a defense thereto from arguments in either Opposition will
have a determinative affect on Rascon and McCarthy’s respective Motion for
Summary Judgment. 
 
i.                   
Plaintiffs’ Oppositions
 
Plaintiffs concede that Privette
doctrine applies, but argues that the Privette doctrine applies only to
the scope of the subcontract; that the contract between McCarthy and IOSM
specifically states “first aid;” and under Cal. Lab. Code § 5401(a), first aid
does not encompass heat related illness. Plaintiffs further present that Alvarez
v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 642 (“Alvarez”)
holds that “the Privette doctrine was not declared to be conclusive” and, thus,
the presumption is rebuttable; an example is discussed in Kinsman v. Unocal
Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 671 (“Kinsman”), where the Supreme
Court clarified that when the hirer’s delegation of workplace safety was
limited and did not authorize the contractor to undertake certain safety
measures, the hirer may be liable; and, here, the subcontract was limited in
scope as Ramirez would report to Rascon, take directions from Rascon, and was
instructed by the McCarthy safety team of the policy that workers with a
heat-related illness would be sent home, and the decision to send workers with
heat related illnesses home was made by McCarthy’s safety team. Plaintiffs argue
that McCarthy retained control over part of the first aid/medical work; Rascon
had the background, training, and his job involved the enforcement of heat
illness protocols and conducting daily safety meetings; McCarthy and Rascon had
management of safety, first aid, and heat illness; and McCarthy and Rascon were
involved in Hutchinson’s alleged incident as a member of the McCarthy safety
team participated in treating Hutchinson. Thus, Plaintiffs present that there
is a triable issue of fact as to (1) whether McCarthy negligently failed to
provide adequate medical personnel, and (2) whether Rascon was negligent in
failing to call 911 for Hutchinson. Plaintiffs present as to Rascon that
neither Rascon nor McCarthy denies that Rascon was acting within his scope of
employment, therefore, respondent superior applies and it is not necessary for
Plaintiffs to address separate duty arguments. 
 
Cal. Lab. Code § 5401(a) reads,
in relevant part:
 
As used in this
subdivision, “first aid” means any one-time treatment, and any followup visit
for the purpose of observation of minor scratches, cuts, burns, splinters, or
other minor industrial injury, which do not ordinarily require medical care.
This one-time treatment, and followup visit for the purpose of observation, is
considered first aid even though provided by a physician or registered
professional personnel. “Minor industrial injury” shall not include serious
exposure to a hazardous substance as defined in subdivision (i) of Section
6302.
 
It does not appear that
heat-related illness is encompassed by Cal. Lab. Code § 5401(a). 
 
Kinsman provides in
relative part:
 
At the same time,
consistent with Privette‘s rule against vicarious hirer liability, we
concluded that “it would be unfair to impose tort liability on the hirer of the
contractor merely because the hirer retained the ability to exercise control
over safety at the worksite. In fairness, … the imposition of tort liability on
a hirer should depend on whether the hirer exercised the control that was
retained in a manner that affirmatively contributed to the injury of the
contractor's employee.” (Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 210,
first italics added.) We elaborated that “[s]uch affirmative contribution need
not always be in the form of actively directing a contractor or contractor's
employee. There will be times when a hirer will be liable for its omissions.
For example, if the hirer promises to undertake a particular safety measure,
then the hirer's negligent failure to do so should result in liability if such
negligence leads to an employee injury.” (Hooker, supra, 27
Cal.4th at p. 212, fn. 3.)
 
Accordingly, in Hooker,
we concluded summary judgment was appropriate because Caltrans had not
exercised its retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributed to
the employee's injury. On the other hand, in the companion case, McKown,
supra, 27 Cal.4th 219, we upheld a jury verdict for an injured employee against
the hirer of the contractor, because the hirer had furnished the employee with
a defective forklift that had contributed to his injury. (Id. at pp.
223–226.)
 
(Kinsman, supra, 37
Cal.4th 659,670.) 
 
The Court next discusses evidence
presented by Plaintiffs that it finds critical to its analysis.
 
The deposition of Ramirez shows:
(1) the subcontract between McCarthy and IOSM subcontracted out “on-site First
Aid Services” (See McCarthy Exh. 23 [cited by Plaintiffs]), (2) McCarthy’s
safety team advised Hutchinson to drink an electrolyte packet (Exh. A 24:7-11),
(3) McCarthy’s safety team at the location had a policy to send home any heat
related illness regardless of improvement as instructed to Ramirez by a
McCarthy safety team member (id. at 25:19-25, 26:19-15, 27:11-16), (4) Ramirez
consulted with Rascon about Hutchinson per policy (id. at 29:3-6); (3)
Rascon informed Hutchinson that it would be unsafe for Hutchinson to return to
work and clearance from a physician would be needed for Hutchinson to return to
work (id. at 29:16-30:1), and (5) Ramirez did not have authority to send
Hutchinson home (id. at 34:16-21, 35:8-19).
 
The Court notes that Ramirez
concedes that, at the time of the alleged incident, he was a certified emergency
medical technician (“EMT”) (id. at 14:20-25), but that he was hired as a
first aid technician (id. at 52:19-53:8, 53:22-54:1).
 
IOSM’s Chief Executive Officer
(“CEO”)’s deposition shows: (1) IOSM was hired to provide first aid (Exh. B
12:1-4), (2) the first aid technician from IOSM was not required to have
certain certificates (id. 12:9-15), (3) the contract contemplated that IOSM
employees would take direction regarding their duties from a McCarthy employee
(id. at 25:9-18), and (4) Ramirez was required to report and take
directions from Rascon (id. at 32:17-21).
 
Rascon’s deposition shows: (1)
Rascon was required to ensure that everybody was educated about heat illness
and prevention and trained McCarthy personnel on heat illness prevention (Exh.
E 18:14-20, 23:3-12), and (2) McCarthy had procedures regarding high heat (id.
at 24:17-25:25).
 
Based on the evidence, there is a
dispute of material fact as to the scope of the subcontract between McCarthy
and IOSM, and McCarthy’s duties due to the extent of their control over the
processes related to heat illness. 
 
ii.      Ramirez
and IOSM’s Oppositions 
 
Ramirez and IOSM argue concede
that the Privette doctrine remains good law, but argues that there are
exceptions to Privette and, here, McCarthy and Rascon retained control
over Hutchinson’s manner of performance (see McCarthy and Rascon Exhs. 22, 23
[cited by Ramirez and IOSM]); first aid is defined in Cal. Lab. Code § 5401
and, under the definition provided by statute, first aid has a limited scope; IOSM
and Ramirez were not obligated to evaluate workers for heat related illness;
McCarthy and Rascon retained control over Hutchinson as McCarthy and Rascon, as
an employee of McCarthy, did not request IOSM to implement such programs, IOSM
was not asked to assist with any heat-related programs including heat
prevention measures, and IOSM technicians would provide first aid if someone
came to the first aid station and complained of symptoms; Hutchinson was harmed
from injuries while working at the subject project; and McCarthy and Rascon do
not address the manner that McCarthy via Rascon directed Hutchinson while he
was seeking treatment was reasonable and, thus, not negligent, thereby failing
to establish that the Hooker exception to Privette does not apply to
this case. 
 
As with Plaintiffs’ Opposition,
Ramirez and IOSM provide the declarations of Ramirez, and IOSM’s CEO. 
 
The Court incorporates its
analysis, ante, as to Ramirez and IOSM’s CEO’s depositions. 
 
Based on the evidence, there is a
dispute of material fact as to the scope of the subcontract between McCarthy
and IOSM, and McCarthy’s duties due to the extent of their control over the
processes related to heat illness. 
 
“A cause of action for loss of
consortium is, by its nature, dependent on the existence of a cause of action
for tortious injury to a spouse.” (Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) As both Plaintiffs, and Ramirez and IOSM have met
their burden as to the negligence cause of action, so too have they met their
burden for the loss of consortium cause of action.
 
Accordingly, both McCarthy and
Rascon’s respective Motions for Summary Judgment are DENIED.
 
-----
Reply
 
McCarthy and Rascon’s Replies to
IOSM and Ramirez’s Oppositions are identical. 
 
Likewise, McCarthy and Rascon’s
Replies to Plaintiffs’ Opposition are identical. 
 
McCarthy and Rascon argue that
IOSM does not provide authority to bring an Opposition. In support, McCarthy
and Rascon provide the following citation: “ ‘[A] defendant having independent
liability has no standing to appeal from a judgment exonerating his
codefendant.’ Diamond Springs Lime Co. v. American River Constructors (1971)
16 Cal.App.3d 581, 608; Holt v. Booth (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1074, 1080
(‘It is well settled in California…that the exoneration of a joint tortfeasor
from liability does not ‘aggrieve’ the other individually liable tortfeasor(s)
insofar as that word is understood to apply to a party’s standing to
appeal.’).” However, this is not an appeal from a judgment nor has any joint tortfeasor
been exonerated at this time. Out of an abundance of caution, the Court
considered IOSM and Ramirez’s Opposition. The Court’s consideration of IOSM and
Ramirez’s Opposition is not determinative to its ruling on this Motion for
Summary Judgment as it is substantially similar to Plaintiffs’ Opposition. (See
analysis ante.)
 
McCarthy and Rascon argue: (1) Privette
doctrine applies, (2) Plaintiffs’ allegations against IOSM do not prevent the
application of IOSM, (3) IOSM has not raised a triable issue as to McCarthy’s
retainment of control, (4) there is no evidence that McCarthy retained control
as to affirmatively contribute to Hutchinson’s alleged injury, (5) IOSM does
not provide evidence that McCarthy retained control of first aid and exercised
such control so as to affirmatively contribute to Hutchinson’s alleged injury,
and (5) Rascon did not have a duty to Hutchinson beyond any alleged duty of
McCarthy.
 
These same arguments are found in
McCarthy and Rascon’s Replies to Plaintiffs’ Opposition. 
 
In light of the rulings on
McCarthy and Rascon’s Reply Objections and the evidence presented, the Court’s
opinion remains unchanged. 
 
------
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Isidro Rascon’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendant McCarthy Building Companies, Inc.’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.


