 Case Number:  22TRCV01249    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
VERSHANTE
  HILL,
 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01249




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BEST
  WESTERN INTERNATIONAL,
INC.; et
  al. 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              September
11, 2024    
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants, Otoro Group, LLC dba Best
Western Redondo Beach Inn and Tommy Lee
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff, Vershante Hill
HEARING: DEMURRER TO
THE COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.  
 
RULING
Defendants’ Demurrer
to the Complaint is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the battery, IIED, fraudulent concealment, private
nuisance, and public nuisance claims. The motion to strike is DENIED as MOOT.
 
BACKGROUND
On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff Vershante Hill
filed a complaint against Defendants Best Western International, Inc.; Best
Western Plus Redondo Beach Inn; and Tommy Lee alleging (1) battery; (2)
negligence; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4) fraudulent
concealment; (5) private nuisance; and (6) public nuisance.
 
The complaint alleges that Plaintiff sustained
damages due to bedbug bites during her stay at a hotel owned and operated by
Defendants in Redondo Beach, California. (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 14-21, 23-26, 39-40,
44.) Plaintiff checked into the hotel on November 18, 2020, and was assigned
Room 106. (Compl. ¶ 14.) On November 19, 2020, she discovered insect bites,
inspected her bed, and found evidence of a bedbug infestation, including
exoskeletons and droppings. (Compl. ¶¶ 15-16.) Plaintiff reported the
infestation to the hotel management, who apologized and provided a room change.
(Compl. ¶ 17.) However, her condition worsened, leading her to seek medical
treatment and incur various expenses. (Compl. ¶¶ 19-22.)
 
The complaint further alleges that Defendants
were aware of a prior bedbug infestation in Plaintiff's room but failed to
eradicate it or warn her. (Compl. ¶¶ 24-26, 29, 39-40, 44.) Defendants are
accused of failing to implement adequate policies, procedures, and training to
prevent and address bedbug infestations, resulting in a pattern of extreme
indifference to the safety of their guests. (Compl. ¶¶ 34-42.) As a result of
these actions and inactions, Plaintiff suffered physical and emotional
injuries, including permanent scarring and distress. (Compl. ¶¶ 21, 46, 48.)
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to add Doe 1 as Otoro Group, LLC. 
 
On December 28, 2023, Defendants filed a
stipulation to dismiss Defendant Best Western International, Inc. from the case
without prejudice, and that should facts develop during discovery necessity it,
Plaintiff may move to amend her complaint to add Best Western International,
Inc. back into the action as a defendant. 
 
On January 10, 2024, Defendant Otoro Group,
LLC filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On August 15, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a) (emphasis added).)
 
Defendant’s counsel’ Joseph G. Helfrick declares that the
parties met and conferred but were unable to come to an agreement as to any of
the causes of action, thus necessitating this motion. (Helfrick Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court finds this sufficient to
satisfy the meet and confer requirement. 
 
B.    First Cause of Action for Battery
 
Defendants argue
that the battery claims fails because the complaint does not allege sufficient
facts to satisfy the elements. To establish a battery, the plaintiff must show
that: (1) the defendant touched the plaintiff or caused the plaintiff to be
touched with the intent to harm or offend; (2) the plaintiff did not consent to
the touching; (3) the plaintiff was harmed or offended by the defendant's
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in the plaintiff’s position would have
been offended by the touching. (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App 4th 652, 669.)
Furthermore, battery is defined as an intentional tort, and negligence does not
apply. (Bartosh v. Banning (1967) 251 Cal.App 2d 378, 385.) 
 
Defendants contend
that the complaint does not allege that they intentionally touched Plaintiff, placed
bedbugs in Plaintiff’s room, or controlled the bedbugs in a manner that caused
them to bite Plaintiff. Instead, the complaint suggests that Defendants were
aware of the bedbug infestation and failed to remove the bedbugs or warn
Plaintiff, which Defendants argue does not satisfy the element of intentional
touching necessary for a battery claim. Defendants also argue that a business
entity, such as Otoro Group, LLC, cannot commit battery unless it is through
the actions of an agent or employee, and Plaintiff has not alleged any facts
that suggest an employee “battered” or offensively touched the Plaintiff. (McChristian
v. Popkin (1946) 75 Cal.App.2d 249, 255.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ awareness of the bedbug infestation, combined
with their failure to prevent the harmful contact or warn Plaintiff, satisfies
the elements of battery. Plaintiff relies on Mathias v. Accor Econ. Lodging,
Inc. (7th Cir. III. 2003) 347 F.3d 672, where the Seventh Circuit found
that failing to eliminate bedbugs or warn guests of the risk of being bitten
could amount to battery. Plaintiff further argues that Defendants had a duty of
care to ensure the premises were safe, as they invited Plaintiff to the hotel
and accepted payment for their stay, and that Defendants’ failure to warn of
the bedbug infestation violated this duty. Plaintiff also contends that
Defendants’ conduct meets the intent requirement for battery because it was
reckless and showed a willful disregard for Plaintiff’s safety. Plaintiff cites
City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 754, to
support that reckless misconduct, even without an intent to cause harm,
satisfies the intent element of battery. Plaintiff claims that Defendants’
inaction — their failure to eradicate the bedbugs or warn Plaintiff —
constitutes a deliberate choice that resulted in harmful and offensive contact.
Plaintiff did not consent to this contact, and no reasonable person would
consent to being bitten by bedbugs. Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ conduct
amounts to an extreme departure from ordinary standards of care and satisfies
the elements required for a battery claim.
 
In reply, Defendants
argue that Mathias is factually distinct from this case. In Mathias,
the defendant was clearly aware of the bedbug infestation, had received
multiple complaints from guests, and hotel management had explicitly
recommended closing the hotel for treatment, which was ignored. Additionally,
employees were instructed to downplay the bedbugs by referring to them as “ticks”
to avoid alarming guests. The Seventh Circuit found battery in Mathias because
of the defendant’s undeniable knowledge and repeated failure to address the
problem. In contrast, Defendants argue that the Plaintiff’s complaint does not
provide any factual allegations demonstrating that Defendants had prior
knowledge of the bedbug infestation. Plaintiff merely asserts that Defendants
were aware, without providing supporting facts, such as any admissions by hotel
staff or evidence showing Defendants’ prior knowledge of the infestation.
Plaintiff also fails to show that Defendants or their employees acted
intentionally or with substantial certainty that a battery would occur through
bedbug bites. Defendants further argue that there are no allegations that they
caused the bedbugs to harm Plaintiff or that their failure to correct the
condition constitutes an intentional touching necessary for battery. Even under
a theory of willful disregard, Defendants assert that Plaintiff must show
willful conduct, not mere omission, which is not adequately alleged in the
complaint.
 
            The Court finds that the complaint fails to allege
sufficient facts to satisfy the elements required for a battery claim. The
complaint does not allege any intentional act by the Defendants that would
satisfy the requirement of intent for a battery claim. Specifically, there are
no factual allegations that the Defendants or their employees intentionally
touched the Plaintiff, placed bedbugs in the room, or had control over the
bedbugs in a manner that caused them to bite the Plaintiff. The Court also
finds the facts here to be distinguishable from Mathias, where there was
clear evidence that the defendant had actual knowledge of the bedbug
infestation, received numerous complaints, and took affirmative steps to
mislead guests. (Mathias, supra, 347 F.3d at 674-675.)
Specifically, in Mathias, the defendant motel refused an
extermination service’s recommendation to treat all rooms after discovering
bedbugs and only treated affected rooms when bedbugs were found the following
year. (Id. at 674.) There were also guest reports of bedbug bites and
refunds were frequent. (Id.) The Seventh Circuit found that the motel
was aware of the bedbug problem but failed to take adequate steps to address
it. (Id. at 675.) Guests were frequently moved between infested rooms,
and rooms marked “Do not rent” were still rented out. Plaintiffs were placed in
a room labeled “DO NOT RENT UNTIL TREATED” that had not been treated. (Id.)

 
In contrast, here,
there are no factual allegations demonstrating that Defendants had prior
knowledge of the infestation or that they acted with the specific intent or
substantial certainty that bedbug bites would occur. Plaintiff’s complaint
merely suggests that Defendants were aware of the possibility of bedbugs but
does not allege that Defendants knowingly ignored a known risk or acted in a
way that could be construed as intentional misconduct. The allegations do not
demonstrate the same level of awareness or reckless disregard for guest safety
found in Mathias. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants
instructed their employees to mislead guests about the infestation or ignored
explicit recommendations from extermination services to comprehensively address
the issue. Without more specific allegations of intentional conduct or willful
disregard of a known risk, the complaint fails to state a valid cause of action
for battery.
 
Thus, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the battery claim WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
C.    Third Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants argue
that the IIED claim fails because the complaint does not allege sufficient
facts to meet the necessary legal elements. To establish an IIED claim, a
plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct was outrageous,
intended to cause or acted with reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress, and resulted in severe emotional distress to the
plaintiff. (Wilkins v. National Board Co. (1999) 71 Cal.App. 4th 1066,
1087.) The conduct must be “so extreme to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized society”, and must be directed specifically at the
plaintiff or occur in their presence, with the defendant being aware of the
plaintiff's presence. (Carvantez v. J.C. Penney Co. (1979) 24 Cal. 3d
579, 593; Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th
965, 1002.)
 
Defendants contend
that the complaint fails to establish that their conduct was directed at
Plaintiff or was of such an outrageous nature to meet the threshold required
for IIED. They argue that the mere fact that Plaintiff may have suffered
emotional distress is not sufficient to prove IIED, as the distress must be
severe and substantial. (Cummings v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1988) 202
Cal.App.3d 1407, 1424.) Furthermore, Defendants assert that the complaint lacks
specific facts regarding the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s mental suffering;
general claims of “physical harm and ongoing emotional distress” without
detailed descriptions are inadequate. (Bogard v. Employers Cas. Co.
(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602, 617; Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal. 4th 1035,
1051.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim rests on the unreasonable
assumption that Defendants deliberately exposed guests to bedbugs to cause
emotional distress, a claim they describe as unsupported by the facts and
contrary to reason. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ conduct
was outrageous, as they directed employees not to clean or inspect for bedbugs,
disregarded prior knowledge of infestations, and chose to ignore previous guest
complaints. (Complaint, p. 5, ¶25 & ¶29.) Plaintiff argues that this
deliberate failure to address the bedbug infestation, despite knowing the
risks, demonstrates a reckless disregard for the safety and well-being of
guests. Plaintiff also states that Defendants’ behavior exceeds all bounds of
what is tolerated in a civilized community, as hotel guests reasonably expect
their accommodations to be free from such health hazards. Plaintiff claims that
this conduct caused severe emotional distress and should be considered extreme
and outrageous. 
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that the complaint does not
show that Defendants’ failure to correct a bedbug infestation was knowing,
intentional, or willful, nor that it constituted outrageous conduct. Instead,
the complaint merely alleges that Defendants failed to address a bedbug
infestation in November 2020 and that Defendants were aware of an ongoing
problem, which does not meet the required level of outrageousness necessary for
an IIED claim. Defendants assert that Plaintiff has not cited any binding
authority establishing that negligent maintenance of bedbugs in a hotel is
sufficient for an IIED claim, absent conduct that is extreme or outrageous.
Additionally, Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not show that they or their
employees intended to inflict injury or intended for the bedbugs to bite
Plaintiff. 
 
            The Court finds that the complaint does not sufficiently
allege that the Defendants’ conduct met the standard of being “outrageous” as
required for an IIED claim. The allegations that Defendants failed to address a
bedbug infestation or that they were aware of an ongoing problem do not rise to
the level of extreme conduct that “exceeds all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” The complaint lacks specific facts showing that
Defendants' conduct was directed at Plaintiff with the intent to cause distress
or that they acted with reckless disregard for Plaintiff's emotional
well-being.
 
Thus, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the IIED claim WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
D.    Fourth Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Concealment
 
Defendants argue
that the fraudulent concealment claim fails because the complaint does not
allege sufficient facts to meet the elements required for such a claim. To
establish fraudulent concealment, a plaintiff must show: (1) the defendant
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant had a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as they did if they
had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) the plaintiff sustained
damages as a result of the concealment. (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb
& Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1130.) Allegations of fraud must be
pled with specificity, including details such as how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the alleged fraudulent actions occurred. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal. 4th 167.) Generalized or conclusory
allegations are insufficient, and the complaint must provide specific facts
supporting each element of the fraud claim. (Committee in Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197.)
 
Here, Defendants
argue that the complaint lacks the required specificity. The complaint alleges
that Defendants were aware of a bedbug infestation based on online reviews from
third-party websites, but it does not include any specific details about these
reviews, such as when they were made, where in the hotel the alleged
infestations occurred, or any direct connection to the Defendants. The lack of
factual detail and reliance on speculative assumptions fail to satisfy the
elements of a fraudulent concealment claim. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants
intentionally concealed the bedbug infestation from guests, including
Plaintiff, to rent out rooms and make a profit. Defendants were aware of the
infestation through online reviews by prior guests, but they failed to warn
Plaintiff or disclose the problem, which constitutes intentional deceit.
Plaintiff relied on the assumption that the hotel room was safe and habitable,
leading to harm from bedbug bites, which caused permanent physical and
emotional injuries. Plaintiff argues that had Defendants disclosed the
infestation, they would have chosen another hotel. Plaintiff also point out
that Defendants had a duty to disclose the existence of the unsanitary
conditions, given their knowledge of the infestation. Defendants’ failure to
implement policies, procedures, and proper cleaning processes to eliminate the
bedbugs amounted to suppression and concealment of the hotel’s conditions. The
intentional failure to disclose these facts to Plaintiff, while renting out an
infested room, was done with reckless disregard for Plaintiff's rights and
safety.
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to plead
sufficient specific facts to state a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment. In cases involving fraud, the complaint must detail the “how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) When the defendant is a
business entity, the plaintiff must identify the individual who made the
misrepresentation, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to
whom the misrepresentation was made, and the timing and content of the statement.
(Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 152,
157). Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s complaint lacks these necessary
details. It does not specify who allegedly failed to disclose the bedbug
presence, their authority, or what specific representations were made and when.
Instead, the complaint relies on conjecture about an unspecified person who
Plaintiff believes should have warned her about the bedbugs, without providing
any factual basis, specific person, or circumstances supporting the claim of
fraud.
 
            The complaint alleges that Defendants were aware of a
bedbug infestation in the hotel and failed to disclose this danger to guests,
including Plaintiff, thereby committing fraudulent concealment. (Compl. ¶¶
92-93.) Defendants had knowledge of the infestation through prior incidents and
online reviews, yet chose not to inform Plaintiff of these conditions,
intending to continue renting the infested room for profit without undertaking
the necessary sanitation measures. (Compl. ¶¶ 94-96.) The complaint further
alleges that hotel staff, including front desk personnel, were aware of the
infestation and intentionally withheld this information from Plaintiff during
check-in, knowing it would not be discovered independently by Plaintiff.
(Compl. ¶¶ 97-99.) However, the Court finds these allegations to be
insufficient. The complaint fails to allege specific details, such as the exact
timing of when Defendants became aware of the infestation, the specific
employees or agents involved in the concealment, or the precise representations
or omissions made to Plaintiff. 
 
Thus, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the fraudulent concealment claim WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
E.    Fifth Cause of Action for Private Nuisance
 
Defendants argue
that the private nuisance fails because the complaint does not allege
sufficient facts to meet the legal requirements for this claim. A private
nuisance claim involves a non-trespassory interference with the private use and
enjoyment of land. (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 786, 802.) However, Defendants contend that Plaintiff, as a hotel
guest, does not have a sufficient property interest to support a private
nuisance action. Defendants explain that hotel guests, boarders, roomers, or
lodgers are considered mere licensees, not tenants, and do not acquire an
interest in the real property that would allow them to bring a private nuisance
claim. (Sloan v. Court Hotel (1945) 72 Cal.App.2d 308, 314; Venuto v.
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. (1971) 22 Cal.App.3d 116, 125.) The law
distinguishes between the possessory rights of a tenant in a home or apartment
and those of a temporary lodger in a rented hotel room. (Stowe v. Fritzie
Hotels, Inc. (1955) 44 Cal.2d 416, 421). Additionally, Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s nuisance claim merely restates the allegations made in the
negligence claim. California courts have held that when a nuisance claim relies
on the same facts as a negligence claim regarding a lack of due care, the
nuisance claim is essentially a negligence claim. (El Escorial Owners’ Assn.
v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.) As a result,
Defendants assert that Plaintiff has not established a valid private nuisance claim,
and their demurrer to this cause of action should be sustained.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ demurrer
to the causes of action for both private nuisance and public nuisance should be
overruled because the complaint alleges sufficient facts to support these
claims. For private nuisance, Plaintiff claims that her use and enjoyment of
the hotel room was directly interfered with due to the unsanitary and
uninhabitable conditions caused by the bedbug infestation. Defendants’ failure
to eradicate the infestation and continued renting of infested rooms
demonstrates a reckless disregard for the health and safety of the guests. This
behavior substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s comfortable enjoyment of
their room, constituting a private nuisance. (Civ. Code § 3479.)
 
      In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
fails to plead sufficient facts to state a cause of action for nuisance, both
public and private. For private nuisance, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
assertion that she was a tenant of the hotel and that her use and enjoyment of
the property were interfered with is insufficient. Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate standing to maintain a private nuisance cause of action, as there
is no binding authority to support the notion that a hotel guest has the same
possessory rights as a tenant of a home or apartment. 
 
            The Court finds that the complaint does not allege
sufficient facts to satisfy a claim for private nuisance. Plaintiff fails to
allege she has a sufficient property interest as a hotel guest to support a
private nuisance action. Under California law, hotel guests, boarders, roomers,
or lodgers are considered mere licensees, not tenants, and do not acquire a
sufficient interest in the real property to bring a private nuisance claim. (Sloan
v. Court Hotel (1945) 72 Cal.App.2d 308.) In Sloan, the court found
that the plaintiffs were not tenants but merely lodgers. “A mere lodger is one
who occupies a room or portion of a tenement, which is under the control or in
the occupancy of another, and who has no interest in real estate.” (Sloan,
supra, 72 Cal.App.2d at 314.) In Fox v. Windemere Hotel Apartment Co.
(1916) 30 Cal.App. 162, it was held that a person who rents a room in a
property that is directly controlled and supervised by the owners, where the
rooms are furnished and maintained by the owners or their servants, is
considered a lodger and not a tenant. (Id.) Similarly, Edwards v. Los
Angeles (1941) 48 Cal.App.2d 62, stated that guests in hotels, boarders in
boarding houses, and roomers or lodgers are considered mere licensees and not
tenants; they have only a personal contract and acquire no interest in the
property. (Id.) 
 
            Thus, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the private
nuisance claim WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
F.     Sixth Cause of Action for Public Nuisance
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for public nuisance fails because the
complaint does not allege sufficient facts to meet the legal requirements for
this claim. A public nuisance is defined as an interference that affects an
entire community or a considerable number of people. (Civ. Code, § 3480; County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 305.)
The interference must be both substantial and unreasonable. Defendants assert
that liability for public nuisance does not depend on whether the defendant
owns, possesses, or controls the property, but rather on whether the defendant
created or assisted in creating the nuisance. In this case, the Plaintiff does
not allege that Defendants created or helped create a nuisance but instead
claims that Defendants failed to adequately address or abate it. Furthermore,
Defendants argue that there are no facts in the complaint indicating that the
alleged bedbug incident affected anyone other than Plaintiff. The complaint
lacks any allegations showing that the bedbug infestation impacted the public
or community at large. As a result, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not established
a valid cause of action for public nuisance, and their demurrer to this cause
of action should be sustained.
 
In opposition, for
public nuisance, Plaintiff states according to Civil Code section 3480, public
nuisance is an interference that affects an entire community, neighborhood, or
a considerable number of people. Plaintiff contends that the bedbug infestation
at Defendants’ hotel constitutes a public nuisance because it affected not only
the hotel guests but also the community at large. The infestation could spread
from the hotel to guests’ personal property and then to their homes,
potentially affecting the public. Plaintiff compares this to a threat of a
communicable disease, like smallpox, which poses a broader public threat.
(Restatement Second of Torts, § 821B, com. G.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues
that California Health and Safety Code Section 17920.3 deems any building with
conditions that endanger public health, such as a bedbug infestation, a
substandard building and a public nuisance. Plaintiff further argues that both
claims were sufficiently pled in the complaint, which alleged that Defendants’
conduct was both substantial and unreasonable, affecting Plaintiff’s ability to
use and enjoy the hotel room and posing a risk to the public. 
 
In reply, regarding
public nuisance, Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s comparison of a single
instance of insect bites to a smallpox outbreak is baseless. Plaintiff does not
allege that the bedbug infestation affected a substantial number of people at
the same time; in fact, the complaint does not claim that anyone else was
affected or injured by the infestation. Plaintiff’s own statements contradict
the claim that the infestation could have spread to the community, as she notes
that she did not observe bedbugs in her residence before or after the incident.
These vague and conclusory allegations do not meet the requirements for
establishing a public nuisance claim.
 
            The Court finds that the allegations in the complaint
fail to demonstrate that the bedbug infestation affected a substantial number
of people or the community at large. The complaint lacks specific facts showing
that the infestation created a substantial and unreasonable interference with
public rights, and there are no allegations indicating that the infestation
spread beyond the hotel or had any broader public impact. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
comparison of a single instance of bedbug bites to a communicable disease
outbreak, like smallpox, is not supported by the facts provided. Additionally, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendants created or assisted
in creating the nuisance; instead, the complaint suggests that Defendants
merely failed to address or abate an existing condition.
 
            Thus, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the public
nuisance claim WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
G.   Motion to Strike 
 
Given the Court’s
sustaining of the demurrer, the motion to strike is denied as MOOT.