 Case Number:  23STCV26363    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  74 David
Sedaghat v. Sava Seniorcare Administrative Services LLC
Plaintiff David Sedaghat’s Motion to
Deem Service Completed.
 
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
David Sedaghat filed a complaint on October 10, 2023, and has attempted to
serve Specially Appearing Defendants Sava Seniorcare Administrative Services
and its chief executive, Jerry Roles (SA Defendants). Because Plaintiff has
been unable to effect service on SA Defendants, Plaintiff has instead tried to
serve attorney Mathew Pascale (Pascale) of Lewis, Brisbois, Bisgaard &
Smith LLP who is the attorney of record for SA Defendants in a related matter.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            A
corporation may be served by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint:
(1) to the person designated as an agent for service of process; (2) to the
president, chief executive officer, or other head of the corporation; (3) or in
other manners authorized by statute. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10.) If the person designated as an agent for
service cannot be found with reasonable diligence or if no agent has been
designated, “the court may make an order that the service be made upon the
corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State…”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1702.) When substitute
service is attempted, strict compliance with the letter and spirit of the
statutes is required.  (Olvera v.
Olvera (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32, 41.) 
 
DISCUSSION  
            Plaintiff
contends that he may serve Lewis, Brisbois, Bisgaard & Smith LLP because SA
Defendants are a long-standing client of the firm.  Plaintiff asserts that the firm’s previous
legal relationship creates a duty to receive and forward the service of process
to SA Defendants. In response, Pascale argues that an attorney may not accept
service of documents until the attorney has made an appearance in the
matter.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
1.21.)  Additionally, Pascale states that
his firm has not been retained by SA Defendants to represent them in this
matter. Pascale has the better argument.
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Plaintiff’s motion to deem service complete.
The
court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.