  Case Number:  21STCV20318    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Tripadvisor, LLC, FlipKey, LLC, and Holiday Lettings Limited’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff Erin Hughes’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.Defendant Emma O’Connor’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff Erin Hughes[’] First Amended Complaint for Violating Court Order Denying Leave to File the Amended Complaint Except as to the Cause of the Fire is GRANTED.Plaintiff Erin Hughes’s First Amended Complaint is hereby STRICKEN. Plaintiff Erin Hughes may file a Second Amended Complaint in compliance with the Court’s May 30, 2024 order, i.e., adding allegations regarding the purported cause of the first being the release of sky lanterns but nothing else within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Moving parties to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendants Tripadvisor, LLC, FlipKey, LLC, and Holiday Lettings Limited (“the Tripadvisor Defendants”) request judicial notice of Plaintiff Erin Hughes (“Hughes”)’s motion for leave to amend, filed on April 15, 2024, Hughes’ proposed First Amended Complaint, filed on the same date, and the Court’s order dated May 30, 2024, granting Hughes’ motion for leave to amend in part. The Tripadvisor Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).The Tripadvisor Defendants also request judicial notice of Hughes’ initial complaint, filed on June 10, 2021. The Tripadvisor Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).AnalysisThe Tripadvisor Defendants and Defendant Emma O’Connor (“O’Connor”) move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on the ground that the pleading exceeded the scope of the Court’s order granting Plaintiff leave to file the FAC. On May 30, 2024, the Court issued an order granting Plaintiff’s motion in part, allowing Plaintiff to add the proposed amendment regarding the purported cause of the first being the release of sky lanterns, but denying the motion in all other respects.The Court has reviewed the FAC filed on April 15, 2024, and finds that it does not comply with the Court’s order allowing Hughes to add allegations regarding the purported cause of the fire being the release of sky lanterns but nothing else. Hughes’ citation to an order before May 30, 2024 is misplaced, as the Court reviewed a proposed FAC as part of her motion and ruled as to that FAC on May 30, 2024, such that any amendments should have been filed in compliance with that order. Any arguments about relation back to her cross-complaint are similarly misplaced because the only issue before the Court here is whether the FAC complied with the Court’s May 30, 2024 order, as this is not a motion for leave to amend. The Court’s May 30, 2024 ruling sought to keep this action within the same framework as initially filed, i.e., the Court did not allow Hughes to change the nature of the claims against any party except to allege a possible cause of the fire. In the FAC, Hughes substantially expands the claims against the defendants, which will require new discovery and require an even later trial date, and the Court sought to avoid this in its prior order. Hughes asserts many negligence allegations that exceed the scope of the order, including new allegations of alter ego and conspiracy and allegations about marketing the property in violation of COVID-19 related ordinances, among others. Accordingly, Defendants Tripadvisor, LLC, FlipKey, LLC, and Holiday Lettings Limited’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff Erin Hughes’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED, and Defendant Emma O’Connor’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff Erin Hughes[’] First Amended Complaint for Violating Court Order Denying Leave to File the Amended Complaint Except as to the Cause of the Fire is GRANTED. Plaintiff Erin Hughes’s First Amended Complaint is hereby STRICKEN. Plaintiff Erin Hughes may file a Second Amended Complaint in compliance with the Court’s May 30, 2024 order, i.e., adding allegations regarding the purported cause of the first being the release of sky lanterns but nothing else within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.