 Case Number:  22SMCV01240    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Sheida Ashley’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.Plaintiff Sheida Ashley to give notice. REASONINGThe court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) A party may discover the need to amend after all pleadings are completed (the case is “at issue”) and new information requires a change in the nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded. (See Dye v. Caterpillar, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1380.)“The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) Courts apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, or an increased burden of discovery. (See Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [trial court’s denial of leave to amend was proper where those factors were present].) If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. (See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 [describing same].)A motion for leave to amend must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Further, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify the following:(1) The effect of the amendment;(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)Plaintiff Sheida Ashley (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint in this action. Plaintiff seeks to add a new cause of action for trespass based on purported water intrustion trespass by Defendant Sharona Attarchi (“Defendant”). Plaintiff argues that the trial date is not imminent, no depositions have been taken, the claim is based on the same set of operative facts already alleged in the First Amended Complaint, and discovery is still in its early stages. Defendant opposes the motion on the grounds that Plaintiff was aware of the necessary facts at least two years ago, and she makes no effort to justify the lengthy delay in seeking leave to assert this claim.While Plaintiff has provided a copy of the proposed Second Amended Complaint (Mot., Gouzoules Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. A) and identified the proposed amendments (Mot., Gouzoules Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. B), Plaintiff otherwise fails to meet the procedural requirements of bringing a motion for leave to file an amended pleading. Specifically, Plaintiff provides no information as to when the facts giving rise to the proposed new cause of action were discovered, which precludes an analysis of whether Plaintiff diligently moved to amend the complaint. This is particularly important where Plaintiff seeks to add a new cause of action which will presumably require different discovery than what has already taken place, and the trial date is currently set for less than six months from the date of hearing on this motion. In the reply, Plaintiff’s counsel states that he substituted into this action on June 27, 2024 and filed this motion to assert the new claim, but merely changing counsel does not warrant allowing a new claim to go forward without a declaration stating why the claim was not pled earlier. For these reasons, Plaintiff Sheida Ashley’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.