 Case Number:  22STCV15315    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  39 Maria
Iniguez v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., Case No. 22STCV15315.  
 
THE COURT WILL ISSUE THIS
ORDER BEFORE THE HEARING.  THE PARTIES
SHOULD NOT APPEAR.  
 
Plaintiff
Maria Iniguez filed this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
against Defendant Honda Motor Company, Inc.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant did not respond to initial written discovery requests. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s counsel filed motions to compel responses to requests
for production of document and both special and form interrogatories, as well
as a motion to deem the matters specified in the requests for admission to have
been admitted.  Defendant alleges that it was never served with the
discovery requests and has filed its own motions for relief from waiver of
objections.  
 
It
is unclear why the Court must resolve six different motions, three of which are
set for trial after the hearing date, on an issue that the parties should
resolve amongst themselves.  This is especially true in Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act cases, where all of the discovery is standard, i.e.,
Plaintiffs are entitled only to certain documents and discovery on certain
subject areas, and Defendants generally cannot assert valid objections to this
discovery.  The Court refers the parties to its “Courtroom Procedures,”
which lists the documents/subject areas that the Court believes are relevant in
most such cases.  
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.      
The Court takes all motions off-calendar.
 
2.      
The Court advances and vacates the final status conference and trial date.
 
3.      
The Court orders the parties to meet-and-confer concerning these issues by
telephone (not email) within ten (10) days.
 
4.      
The Court orders the parties to file a joint statement on or before February
20, 2024, informing the Court whether the issues have been resolved or whether
the Court still must decide the motions.  The joint statement shall also
include a new proposed trial date. 
 
5.      
The Court sets a case management conference for March 1, 2024, at 8:30
a.m.  If necessary, the Court will re-set the motions for hearing at that
time.  However, if the parties file a sufficient joint statement, the
Court will issue a case management order without holding a hearing, per
California Rules of Court, rule 3.722.  
 
6.      
The Court’s clerk shall provide notice.  