 Case Number:  23STCV09411    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  39 Dusty
Bowman v. Rob Bowman
Case
No. 23STCV09411
Demurrer
 
            Plaintiff
Dusty Bowman (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against her former spouse, Rob
Bowman (“Defendant”), asserting causes of action for quiet title, breach of
contract, and declaratory relief. 
Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
            On
October 15, 2010, the parties obtained a judgment of legal separation in Case
Number BD507258, which required Defendant to pay Plaintiff child support in the
amount of $4,058 per month.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 10.)  The parties
subsequently purchased a condominium with Plaintiff holding a one percent
interest and Defendant holding a 99% interest. 
(Id., ¶ 12.)  In or about
September 2016, the parties agreed to modify Defendant’s child support
payments.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  Defendant agreed to a monetary increase and
to execute a deed transferring to Plaintiff an additional 43% interest in the
property.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  In addition, Defendant agreed to convey to
Plaintiff an additional 7% interest per year until Plaintiff attained a 100%
interest in the property.  (Ibid.)  “This agreement precluded Plaintiff from
seeking a court-ordered modification of child support at any, lest she would
automatically lose all interest she had accumulated in the Real Property at
that time, and would thereafter be entitled to only the amount of child support
the court deemed appropriate.” 
(Ibid.)  The agreement was
memorialized in writing as a “Stipulated Order re Additional Child
Support.”  (Ibid.)  Neither party signed the stipulation, but
both parties conducted themselves as through they had done so.  (Ibid.) 
On March 16, 2017, Defendant executed a grant deed conveying a 51%
undivided interest in the property to Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶ 17.) 
Now, Plaintiff alleges that she is entitled to a 93% undivided interest
in the property, and that she is entitled to a 100% undivided interest this
year, per the agreement.  (Id., ¶¶
17-20.)
 
Based upon the
foregoing, Plaintiff asserts causes of action for quiet title, breach of
contract, and declaratory relief. 
Defendant demurs to the causes of action.  “It is black letter law that a demurrer tests
the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v.
Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a
demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
As an initial
matter, the Court does not appear to have jurisdiction over this dispute.  At heart, Plaintiff seeks to enforce an
agreement to modify Defendant’s child support payments.  Had the “Stipulated Order re Additional Child
Support” memorializing the agreement been signed and filed, this dispute would
fall exclusively within the jurisdiction of the family court.  The mere fact that the stipulation was not
filed does not change the nature of the dispute.  “Almost all events in family law litigation
can be reframed as civil law actions if a litigant wants to be creative with
various causes of action.  It is
therefore incumbent on courts to examine the substance of claims, not just
their nominal headings.”  (Neal v.
Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 22, 25.)  Such disputes ordinarily must be resolved in
family court.  (See Askew v. Askew
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 942, 961.)  According
to Plaintiff, the agreement only prohibited her from seeking a court-ordered
modification of child support.  The
agreement does not prohibit her from seeking to enforce the agreement in family
court (and any such provision probably would be unconscionable).  The Court provides notice that the parties
should be prepared to address this issue if Plaintiff files a second amended
complaint.
 
But the Court
need not resolve that issue at this stage. 
Instead, the Court sustains the demurrer because the parties’ agreement
violates the statute of frauds.  The
statute of frauds requires contracts “not to be performed within one year” and
contracts for an interest in real property, to be in writing and signed by the
party against whom the contract is to be enforced.  (Civ. Code, § 1624(a)(1) & (3).)  Plaintiff argues that Defendant is equitably estopped
from relying on the statute of frauds because she changed her position in
reliance of the parties’ oral agreement to her detriment and would suffer
unconscionable injury if the Court does not enforce the agreement.  (See Monarco v. Lo Greco (1950) 35 Cal.2d
621, 623.)  Plaintiff does not allege
facts in the first amended complaint to support this argument, e.g., Plaintiff
elected not to pursue a court-ordered modification of child support based upon
the parties’ agreement; Plaintiff would have been entitled to a court-ordered
modification of child support based upon Defendant’s income and/or other
changed circumstances; Plaintiff suffered an unconscionable injury because she
did not receive sufficient child support to which she was entitled; etc.  The Court is required to grant leave to amend
because it appears likely that Plaintiff could allege sufficient facts to
demonstrate that Defendant is estopped from relying on the statute of frauds.  
 
            Defendant
makes a series of additional arguments, none of which is persuasive.  Defendant argues that the sham pleading
doctrine bars Plaintiff’s claims because the complaint alleges an “oral
agreement” and the first amended complaint alleges “an agreement, partially
oral and partially written.”  These
allegations do not necessarily conflict because the original complaint does not
allege that there was “only” or “exclusively” an oral agreement.  Defendant also argues that the statute of
limitations bars Plaintiff’s claim because the statute began to run when
Defendant failed to make the required transfer on January 1, 2018.  Defendant is incorrect.  A statute of limitations runs each time
Defendant breached the obligation in the contract.  (See Armstrong Petroleum Corp. v.
Tri-Valley Oil & Gas Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1388-1389.)  At best, this may constitute a limitation on
damages, which the Court will address in ruling on motions in limine.  
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to
the third cause of action without leave to amend.  A declaratory relief action is inappropriate
when a plaintiff has an adequate remedy on other causes of action at
trial.  (See
Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California Ins.
Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.)  
 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
 
(General of America Ins. Co.
v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) 
In this case, the declaratory relief claim is duplicative of the
indemnity claims.  The Court has
discretion to decline to issue a declaratory judgment under these circumstances.  (See AICCO, Inc. v. Insurance Company of
North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579, 590.) 
A cause of action for declaratory relief is not intended as a means for
the trial court to “overrule” the jury’s decisions on the related causes of
action.    
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court sustains the demurrer to the
first and second causes of action with leave to amend.  
 
            2.         The Court sustains the demurrer to the
third cause of action without leave to amend.
 
            3.         The Court orders the parties to
meet-and-confer whether they wish to dismiss this case without prejudice and
resolve their dispute in family court. 
This meet-and-confer shall occur via telephone within five (5) days.
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall file a
request for dismissal without prejudice or a second amended complaint on or
before February 20, 2024.  
 
            5.         The Court shall hold an additional case
management conference on March 29, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  If Plaintiff files a second amended
complaint, Defendant may notice any demurrer for hearing on that
date/time.  
 
            6.         If Plaintiff’s counsel elects to file a
second amended complaint, the Court shall notice its own motion for judgment on
the pleadings under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 438(b)(2)
& (c)(3)(A).  The motion would be
based on the apparent lack of jurisdiction over this dispute for the reasons
discussed in this order.  The motion for
judgment on the pleadings would be heard on the same date/time as the case
management conference: March 29, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Any opposition and reply to the opposition
would be due based upon statutory deadlines.
 
            7.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 