 Case Number:  24STLC00190    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  26 Alliance United ins. Co. v. Myles, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:
Plaintiff Alliance United
Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is
GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20
DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
ANALYSIS: 
Plaintiff Alliance
United Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendant Lenora Myles (“Defendant”)
on January 11, 2024. On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint adding Defendants MV Transportation, Inc., individually and dba MV
Transportation LLC, MV Transportation LLC, and MV Public Transportation Inc. Plaintiff
filed the instant Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint on October
31, 2024. No opposition has been filed to date. 
Discussion 
The Complaint and First Amended Complaint are set forth on Judicial
Council Form PLD-PI-001 and indicate that causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence are to be alleged against Defendant. (Compl.,
¶10; FAC, ¶10.) The necessary attachments to provide the factual allegations
for these causes of action, however, are not attached to the First Amended
Complaint.
Plaintiff now moves for leave to
file a Second Amended Complaint with the attachments under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. A motion for leave to
amend a pleading must comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines of the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . . .” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
487.) However, “[a] different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s Motion is supported by a declaration
explaining that the First Amended Complaint did not include the required
attachments and seeking to add attachments that thoroughly detail the subject
motor vehicle accident, “including the date and place, and roles of defendants.” (Motion, Cordova Decl., ¶10.) The
amendments are necessary to provide the parties with a clear understanding of
the causes of action. (Id. at ¶11.) The declaration explains that
Plaintiff attempt to file the Second Amended Complaint was rejected by the
clerk’s office on grounds that it did not have leave to amend the pleadings. (Id.
at ¶8 and Exh. C.) Plaintiff brings this Motion within weeks of the rejection.
(Id. at ¶12.) Here, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend the First
Amended Complaint to make necessary corrections. Nor is there any indication of excusable delay nor
prejudice to Defendant, who has not been served in this action nor appeared.
All the requirements for leave to amend, therefore, are satisfied.
Conclusion
Plaintiff Alliance United
Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is
GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20
DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
Moving party to give notice.