 Case Number:  21AHCV00134    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



AZIZA GEORGIAN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
US GC
   INVESTMENT, LP., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21AHCV00134
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT US GC INVESTMENT, LP’S RESPONSES
   TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   4, 2023




 


 


 



 
          On December 3,
2021, Plaintiff Aziza Georgian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against US GC
Investment, LP (“Defendant”), New Prosperity Investment LLC (“New Prosperity”),
and Youhong Fu. On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for an order
compelling Defendant to serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set One). Plaintiff also requests sanctions.
On September 27, 2023, Defendant and
New Prosperity (collectively, “Defendants”) filed an omnibus declaration from
their counsel, Charles C. McKenna, in which counsel states that a change in
staff resulted in the discovery requests being overlooked. (McKenna Decl., ¶¶
3-5.) Mr. McKenna states that the previous handling attorney, Sherilyn Learned
O’Dell, obtained verifications for Defendant and New Prosperity’s responses to
Plaintiff’s requests for admission and document requests, but that the
verifications for the form interrogatories have not been located yet. (Id.,
¶ 8.) Therefore, Mr. McKenna requests that the motions filed to compel all the
defendants’ discovery responses be continued for approximately one month so
that his office may provide additional verified responses. (Id., ¶¶
9-10.) 
In light of the circumstances identified
in Mr. McKenna’s declaration, and the lack of any prejudice to Plaintiff that
would result from a brief continuance, the Court CONTINUES the discovery
hearings scheduled on October 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, and 11 to November _______ at
8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. 
The Court expects that the motions will
be taken off calendar if the defendants provide verified responses to
Plaintiff, as the Court is not inclined to impose sanctions in these
circumstances. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (d); 2031.300, subd. (c).)]
Plaintiff
to give notice of the new hearing date. 
Dated
this 4th
day of October, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 