  Case Number:  21AHCV00070    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CITY OF PASADENA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
   INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21AHCV00070
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STAY ACTION 
 
Dept.
  3
9:00
  a.m.

October
   4, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
A.   The
Complaint 
On November 4, 2021, the City of Pasadena
(“Pasadena”) filed this action against defendant California Institute of
Technology (also known as and referred to herein as “Caltech”) asserting claims
for continuing trespass, continuing private nuisance, continuing public
nuisance, and declaratory relief. Pasadena alleges that its drinking water
supply wells, namely the Sunset wells and Eastside wells, located in the
Pasadena subarea of a water basin known as the Raymond Groundwater Basin
(“Basin”), are contaminated by various man-made chemicals. (Compl., ¶ 1.)
Pasadena seeks remediation costs from Caltech, which managed and operated, and
continues to manage and operate, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s (“NASA”) Jet Propulsion Laboratory (“JPL”), located at 4800
Oak Grove Drive in Pasadena (“JPL Facility”). Plaintiff alleges that Caltech
released and/or disposed of contaminants into the soil and groundwater at the
JPL Facility, which caused the contamination of its wells which are
downgradient (or downstream) of the Facility. (Compl., ¶ 3.) The JPL Facility is
a federally-funded research and development center (“FFRDC”) owned by NASA and
operated as a division of Caltech through a contract between NASA and Caltech.
(Compl.,. ¶ 16.) 
In 1992, after investigating contamination
found in the Monk Hill wells, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) listed the JPL Facility as a Superfund site under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), 42 U.S.C. §
9601, et seq. (Compl., ¶ 118.) In 2018, EPA issued its Record of Decision
(“ROD”) for the JPL Facility relating to one of the three operating units
(“OUs”), specifically OU3 which consists of off-Facility groundwater adjacent
to the JPL Facility.  (Compl., ¶¶ 121,
129.) The ROD identifies the cleanup action selected by NASA and EPA for the contaminated
groundwater off-site and downgradient of the JPL Facility, which includes the Monk
Hill wells. (Compl., ¶ 129.) The EPA rejected Pasadena’s request to include treatment
of contaminated groundwater in other areas of the Basin, including the Sunset
wells, in the ROD’s remedy. (Compl., ¶ 129.) Instead, the EPA stated that
groundwater located between the JPL Facility and the Sunset wells will be
monitored and evaluated, at a minimum, as part of five-year reviews. (Compl., ¶
130.) Pasadena alleges that since the EPA’s ROD in 2018, groundwater sampling
and testing data has shown that contaminates from the JPL Facility have
migrated through and from the Monk Hill subarea into the Sunset wells and Eastside
Wells. (Compl., ¶ 132.) 
B.   Procedural
Background
On
April 11, 2022, the Honorable Colin P. Leis issued an order (the “April 2022
Order”) denying Caltech’s demurrer or, alternatively, motion to dismiss or stay
this action based on the doctrine of “primary jurisdiction”. In its moving
papers, Caltech argued that this action could not continue without joining the
United States of America (“United States”) as a “necessary party” because
Pasadena’s allegations assume, as a matter of law, that the contamination of
the Sunset and Eastside Wells will become a “facility” under CERCLA, and any
remediation efforts will require EPA approval. Judge Leis found that the United
States was not a necessary party to the action and emphasized that the United
States, through the EPA, has declared that the JPL facility did not include the
Sunset and Eastside wells. Judge Leis also specifically noted that the record
at that time did not support Caltech’s claim that any contamination from JPL
must be within EPA’s jurisdiction.
On
March 8, 2023, the Second Appellate District of the Court of Appeal denied
Caltech’s petition for writ of mandate. (Carlin Decl., Ex. G.) The court left
open the possibility of a stay if Pasadena “proves its underlying contention
that the contamination is from the Jet Propulsion Lab”, so that new information
could be presented to the EPA, which might then take over remediation efforts
and amend its ROD.
On August
21, 2023, Caltech filed this motion for a stay based on the doctrine of forum
non conveniens. 
On September
11, 2023, Pasadena filed its opposition brief. 
On September 14, 2023, Caltech filed a
complaint in the Central District of California against Pasadena and the United
States (the “Federal Action”) for cost recovery under CERCLA and declaratory
relief. (Dintzer Reply Decl., Ex. A.) The matter has been assigned to the
Honorable André Birotte Jr. 
On September 18, 2023, Caltech filed its
reply brief.  
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
When a
court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state,
the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any
conditions that may be just. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) The doctrine
of forum non conveniens “is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary
power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a
transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more
appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.” (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc.
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) 
In
considering motions based on forum non conveniens, courts undertake a two-part
analysis. First, the court determines whether the alternate forum is a suitable
place for trial. (Id.) To be suitable, a forum need only have personal
jurisdiction and not have a statute of limitations that would bar the action. (Chong
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1032.)  Second, the court considers the private
interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in litigating the
matter in one forum or another. (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p.
751.) The private interest factors are those that make trial and the
enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive,
such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining
attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process for
attendance of unwilling witnesses. (Ibid.) The public interest factors
include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars,
protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon
to decide cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing
the competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the
litigation. (Ibid.) The moving party bears the burden of establishing
both components in the analysis. (Ibid.) The trial court has
considerable discretion to decide motions based on forum non conveniens. (Ibid.)

III.       
DISCUSSION
Caltech
contends that this action should be stayed pursuant to the doctrine of forum
non conveniens so that it may pursue its litigation in federal court. As stated
above, the Federal Action names Pasadena and the United States, asserts CERCLA
claims, and seeks a declaration that Pasadena may not conduct any remediation
of contamination without EPA approval. 
Caltech
argues that the Central District is a suitable alternative forum because
federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over CERCLA cost recovery claims and
may exercise supplemental jurisdiction over Pasadena’s state law claims if
Pasadena brings them as counterclaims. (Mot., pp. 17-18.) Caltech argues that
federal court is more suitable for Pasadena’s claims because only there may the
United States be brought into the litigation in federal court and federal
involvement is necessary because the EPA must approve any proposed remedial
action. (Motion, p. 18.) Caltech emphasizes that it would be more efficient to
resolve “threshold federal questions” before litigating causation because if
JPL contamination has reached Pasadena’s Sunset and Eastside wells, then
Pasadena becomes a “potentially responsible party” (“PRP”) under CERCLA and its
remediation efforts are subject to approval by EPA. 
Caltech’s
conclusion that Pasadena would be a PRP is based on CERCLA’s definition. (Motion,
p. 13.) 42 U.S.C. §9607(a), defines “covered persons” or PRPs as “(1) the owner
and operator of a vessel or a facility” or “(2) any person who at the time of
disposal of any hazardous substance owned or operated any facility at which
such hazardous substances were disposed of.” In turn, the term “facility” means
(A) any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
(including any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned treatment works), well, pit,
pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage container, motor vehicle,
rolling stock, or aircraft, or (B) any site or area where a hazardous substance
has been deposited, stored, disposed of, or placed, or otherwise come to be
located; but does not include any consumer product in consumer use or any
vessel.” (42 U.S.C.A. § 9601.) Caltech argues that if Pasadena prevails and
demonstrates that its wells have been contaminated by the JPL Facility, it will
become a PRP by virtue of being the owner of the area where hazardous
substances have “come to be located”; as a PRP, its remediation efforts must be
approved by the EPA. (42 U.S.C. § 122(e)(6); Atlantic Richfield Co. v.
Christian (2020) 590 U.S. ---, 140 S.Ct. 1335, 1357.) Therefore, according
to Caltech, a stay is warranted because if EPA declines to approve Pasadena’s
proposed remediation, then Pasadena’s state law claims may not proceed until
the JPL Facility is no longer designated as a Superfund site. (Mot., p. 16.) The
Court notes that Caltech made these same arguments and requests in its demurrer
and motion to dismiss, as well as its supplemental briefing provided to the Court
of Appeal. Specifically, in its supplemental brief, Caltech urged the Second
Appellate District to dismiss the case without prejudice or stay it “unless and
until EPA approves Pasadena’s proposed remedial action or the JPL facility is
removed from the National Priorities List by EPA and is no longer a Superfund
site.” (Carlin Decl., Ex. E, p. 4.) 
Caltech
also argues that private and public interests weigh in favor of a stay because
the Federal Action will allow it to obtain a federal ruling and compel the
participation of the United States in settlement discussions and discovery,
which is not possible in state court. (Motion, pp. 19-20.) Caltech notes that
local state courts are much more congested than federal dockets and asserts
that litigation in state court would be “null” if EPA does not change its mind
and approve Pasadena’s remediation plans. Caltech also argues that “the federal
system and government” – specifically NASA and EPA – have a strong interest to
ensure that federal law is properly applied to assess the actions taken by
federal agencies in accordance with CERCLA.  
These
arguments echo those made by Caltech in their previous demurrer and motion to
dismiss or stay. Caltech previously argued that this state action should be
dismissed (or stayed) and that Pasadena must pursue its claims in federal court
so that the United States could be joined as a necessary and indispensable
party. Now, a year later, Caltech repeats its request for a stay using the same
argument that Pasadena’s requested remediation would only be available through
EPA approval and its claims should be pursued in federal court, albeit using a
different theory which permits the court to exercise more discretion: forum non
conveniens. Yet, Caltech presents no new facts which would persuade the Court that
federal court is a more suitable forum for Pasadena’s claims. As the Court of
Appeal noted earlier this year, what Caltech presents as “threshold questions”
rest on a number of contingencies, namely, a situation where (1) a judgment
finds that the Jet Propulsion Lab was the source of the contamination, but (2)
the EPA nonetheless declines to amend its Record of Decision to include the two
wells as part of the Superfund site.” (Carlin Decl., Ex. G, p. 2.) These
contingencies have not been realized in the six months since the Court of
Appeal denied Caltech’s writ petition. Furthermore, Caltech submits a letter
from NASA dated May 19, 2023, in which NASA represented that EPA had received
additional information from Pasadena regarding the alleged contamination but
that neither EPA nor NASA believed that the ongoing remedial efforts should be
revised. (Carlin Decl., Ex. H.) This letter reflects the status quo and shows
that EPA and NASA still disclaim any interest in the litigation because,
without a finding of causation, the Sunset and Eastside Wells are not currently
part of any CERCLA facility. 
Ultimately,
Caltech fails to meet its burden of showing that Pasadena’s claims should be
tried in federal court. The facts underlying Judge Leis’s initial finding that
the United States is not a necessary party have not changed, and no new facts
have been presented which would persuade the Court that the same outcome – trying
Pasadena’s state law claims in federal court – should result, even under the
more discretionary standard of forum non conveniens. Even if Caltech has since initiated
a federal lawsuit, this state court action was filed first and was the first to
acquire jurisdiction. (Mave v. Travelers Indem. Co. (2013) 219
Ca.App.4th 1408, 1423-1424 [citing Simmons v. Superior Court (1950) 96
Cal.App.2d 119, 122-124].) Staying this case and allowing federal litigation of
Caltech’s CERCLA claims to proceed first would cause undue delay, especially
when: (1) this case was already filed nearly two years ago, (2) NASA and EPA
have explicitly stated that they do not believe their involvement in cost-sharing
or litigation is necessary, which means that a motion to dismiss is likely, and
(3) the district court may decline to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
Pasadena’s claims if the United States prevails on a motion to dismiss. In
addition, a state court judgment in Pasadena’s favor is not “null”, as Caltech
describes, even if – in practice – Pasadena’s remediation efforts cannot take
place until the JPL Facility is delisted as a Superfund site. It is also undeniable
that the State of California has a strong interest in ensuring that its cities can
provide a clean drinking water supply to its residents. The specific logistics
of cost-sharing under CERCLA and EPA approval do not need to involve Pasadena
at this time when liability is still disputed and can be settled later, at
which time Caltech may file a renewed motion for an order staying this action. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Caltech’s motion to stay is DENIED without prejudice. 
Dated
this 4th
day of October, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.