  Case Number:  20STCV20755    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV20755




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Glendon-Monica HOA




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Earl Gibson and Plaintiff-in-Intervention Norguard Insurance Company



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Christina S. Karayan
4.      Declaration of Susan Rappaport
5.      Defendant’s Compendium of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Facts in Opposition
3.      Declaration of Adam Lugo
4.      Norguard Insurance Company’s Opposition
5.      Norguard’s Separate Statement of Disputed and
Undisputed Material Facts in Opposition
6.      Objections to Evidence Submitted by Plaintiff
Norguard Insurance 
7.      Norguard Insurance Company’s Compendium of
Exhibits in Support of Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Defendant’s Omnibus Reply 
2.      Defendant’s Response to Additional Statement
of Facts Submitted by Plaintiff
3.      Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Evidence
4.      Defendant’s Response to Additional Statement
of Facts Submitted by Plaintiff Norguard
5.      Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff Norguard
Insurance Company’s Evidence in Support
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 2, 2020, Plaintiff
Earl Gibson (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Glendon-Monica
HOA and Does 1 to 25 for general negligence and premises liability for injury that
occurred at 1944 Glendon Ave. Los Angeles, California (“Premises”). Plaintiff
alleges that on June 27, 2018, he was injured on the Premises while using a
ladder that was attached to the building. While using said ladder, the ladder
detached from the building and Plaintiff fell. Plaintiff was working as an air
conditioner repairer at the time. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Glendon-Monica HOA owned, maintained, operated, and controlled the Premises.       
 
Defendant Glendon-Monica HOA (“Defendant”)
now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication,
against Plaintiff arguing that no triable issue of fact exists. Plaintiff and
Plaintiff-in-intervention Norguard Insurance Company (“Norguard”), who has paid
worker’s compensation benefits for Plaintiff, opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Norguard’s and Defendant’s evidentiary
objections as they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) Therefore, to prevail on a
claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“The owner of premises is under a
duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to
avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil
Code § 1714.)
 
Privette Doctrine
 
Causes of action available to an injured employee of an
independent contractor against the hirer of that contractor are limited. 
Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent contractor is not liable to the
contractor's employees for on-the-job injuries.  The independent
contractor's employer's liability for such injuries is limited by workers'
compensation, and the party who hired the contractor likewise gets the benefit
of that coverage.  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th
689, 693, 700-02; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245; Toland
v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-70.) 
 
The Supreme Court has held that it would be unfair to
impose liability on the hiring person when the liability of the contractor, the
one primarily responsible for its worker’s on-the-job injuries, is limited to
providing workers’ compensation coverage.  As such, even if there is
evidence that the hirer was directly liable for the plaintiff’s injuries,
recovery is not available under the peculiar risk doctrine.  (Privette,
supra, 5 Cal.4th at 693, 700-02.) 
 
Workers’
compensation “ ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or
death of an employee.’ [Citation.]” … In Privette, the Supreme Court
held that “an independent contractor’s employee should not be allowed to
recover damages from the contractor’s hirer, who ‘is indirectly paying for the
cost of [workers’ compensation] coverage, which the [hired] contractor
presumably has calculated into the contract price.’ [Citation.]”
[Citation.]  
 
The
Privette holding was based on the principle that the hirer of an independent
contractor generally has “
‘ “ ‘no right of control as to the mode of
doing the work contracted for.’ ” ’ ” [Citation.] Precisely because the hirer
“has no obligation to specify the precautions an independent hired contractor
should take for the safety of the contractor’s employees, ... [a]bsent an obligation, there
can be no liability in tort.” [Citation.]  
 
(Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 640.)  Moreover, “[t]he Privette line of
decisions establishes a presumption that an independent contractor’s hirer
‘delegates to that contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for
the contractor’s employees.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at 642.)  
 
Privette
is based on the presumption that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally delegates to the contractor responsibility for supervising the job,
including responsibility for looking after employee safety. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252, 265.) In line with this presumption,
only the hirer of an independent contractor falls within the Privette
doctrine. (See id. [holding that landowner did not hire plaintiff for purposes
of the Privette doctrine where landowner’s tenant hired the plaintiff
independent contractor to perform work on the premises].) The person asserting
non-liability under Privette must “delegate a responsibility for
ensuring the worksite's safety, either directly or ‘through the chain of
delegation.’” (Id. [quoting Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2010)
49 Cal.4th 518, 528–29.)  This delegation
is “is project-specific, meaning it involves a duty limited not only to the
contracted-for work but also to the place where that work occurs.” (Id. at
268.)
 
1.      Exceptions to the Privette Doctrine
“At common law, a person who hired an independent
contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the
contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central to this rule of
nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez v. Mathis, the California
Supreme Court revisited the Privette doctrine and the exceptions to the
doctrine.
There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is typically not
liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while
on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
We have nevertheless identified two limited circumstances
in which the presumption is overcome. First, in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker),
we held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. Second, in Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman),
we held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if
the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property
that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered,
and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37–38 [cleaned up].) 
2.      Analysis
 
Here, Defendant argues it is not
liable under Privette since Plaintiff was working as an independent
contractor when he was injured. Defendant offers the following facts: 
 
-         
At the time of the incident, Plaintiff was employed
with Garmagarm International, Inc. which does business as Gama Central Heating
& Air Conditioning (“Gama”). (UMF 10.) 
-         
Gama provides heating and air conditioning and
ventilation services to industrial, commercial and residential properties. (UMF
12.) 
-         
The Glendon-Monica HOA was established to govern the
Glendon Monica condominium complex. (UMF 18.)
-         
Pursuant to the Covenants Conditions &
Restrictions, each unit owner is a member of the Glendon-Monica HOA. (UMF 19.)
-         
The Covenants Conditions & Restrictions establish
the HOA is responsible for maintaining the common areas while unit owners are
responsible for maintaining their units. (UMF 20.)
-         
On the day of the incident, [Plaintiff] recalls
receiving an assignment from his coworker “Al” about having to report to
Glendon-Monica HOA to perform work on some air conditioning equipment. (UMF
21.) 
-         
Plaintiff and Al were told to perform maintenance and
troubleshooting of the unit. (UMF 24.)
-         
When they arrived at the property, Plaintiff and Al
went to the resident’s unit and discussed what issues she was having. (UMF 25.)
-         
After speaking with the resident, Al and Plaintiff went
onto the roof to try and locate the air conditioning unit. (UMF 27.)
-         
They approached the ladder which Al believe[d] led to
the air conditioning unit. (UMF 29.)
 
Defendant fails to meet its burden that
it hired Plaintiff for purposes of the Privette doctrine. Defendant
argues in its reply brief that Privette applies because each unit owner
is a member of the Glendon-Monica HOA and therefore the doctrine applies
“equally to the actual hirer as it does to agents, independent contractors and
others in privity.” (Reply at p. 2.) However, Defendant does not set forth
evidence regarding delegation of a duty involving the air conditioning unit to the
unit owner. (See Ramirez, supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at 267–68 [finding that based on the terms of
the lease agreement, the landlord did not delegate the duty to provide a safe
workplace to the tenant].) Here, Defendant has not provided any evidence in its
separate statement regarding maintenance of the air conditioning unit as set
forth in the CC&Rs, nor is a copy of the CC&Rs included in the evidence
presented by Defendant. Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication is denied.[1] 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Glendon-Monica HOA’s Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


