  Case Number:  23STCV02147    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  55 TURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendant’s Demurrer
- with Motion to Strike
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in
part.  Defendant’s Motion to
Strike is granted in part and denied in part. 
                                                                                 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Francisca Rivera and Donald Paz (Plaintiffs) filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against
Alma Aguilar, an individual and trustee, Petite Chateau, Inc., and Doe defendants 1-100
(Defendants) alleging that, as owner and lessor, or manager, Defendants failed
to remediate uninhabitable conditions involving roof leaks, mold, and cockroach
infestation. Plaintiffs’ causes of action are (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability, (2) Negligence, (3) Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Use and
Enjoyment, (4) Nuisance, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and
(6) Violation of Business & Professions Code, Section 17200. 
 
Petite Chateau, Inc.
(Defendant) filed a Demurrer - with Motion to Strike. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.  
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
“If the complaint states a cause of action under any theory,
regardless of the title under which the factual basis for relief is stated,
that aspect of the complaint is good against a demurrer. “[W]e are not limited
to plaintiffs’ theory of recovery in testing the sufficiency of their complaint
against a demurrer, but instead must determine if the factual allegations of
the complaint are adequate to state a cause of action under any legal theory.’”
Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38-39
(Quelimane) (quoting Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn. (1972)
7 Cal. 3d 94, 103).
Further, the court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a). The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading
has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Id. § 436. The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id. §
437. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”);
Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to
amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under
any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment.”). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.
 
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Defendant demurs to the negligence, nuisance, IIED, and
unfair business practice claims.  
Negligence
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail to state a
cause of action for negligence because the duty Defendant owed was limited by
statute and did not extend to the general duty allegedly breached in the
SAC.   
“In order to state a cause of action for negligence, the
complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the
defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” Bellah v. Greenson
(1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619. 
“[U]nless otherwise provided in the declaration of a common
interest development, the [homeowners] association is responsible for
repairing, replacing, and maintaining the common area.” Civil Code § 4775(a)(1).

Here, the Complaint includes allegations that Defendant, as
the homeowner’s association, was responsible for “maintaining, repairing and modifying,
and altering the common areas, including the leaking roof of the building which
resulted in water damage and ceiling collapse at the property.” SAC ¶ 14. 
This allegation is sufficient to establish that Defendant
owed Plaintiffs a duty of care regarding roof maintenance. The Court rejects
Defendant’s contention that Plaintiffs’ use of the phrases “general duty” owed “in
the management and maintenance of the Property common areas and Rental Unit” fails
to allege the existence of Defendant’s duty. Motion at p. 4:18-20.  Even if this phrasing was deficient, the Court
looks to Plaintiffs’ factual allegations, not just their stated legal theory. See
Quelimane, supra, 19 Cal.4th at p. 38-39.
As pleaded, the SAC includes allegations that Defendant was
responsible for maintaining the roof and that the roof was leaking. SAC ¶14.
Plaintiffs further allege Defendant failed to make repairs and that the leaking
roof resulted in water damage, ceiling collapse, mold, and damage to Plaintiffs’
personal property. SAC ¶¶ 25,20-23,29, 32. These allegations are sufficient to plead
the required elements of negligence. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is
overruled as to the negligence claim.  
Nuisance
Second, Defendant argues that the SAC does not properly
allege a nuisance claim against it because the nuisance cause of action is
pleaded against Defendants as “owners, landlords, and managers” of the
property. Motion at p. 5:16-18. 
To establish an action for private nuisance, “[f]irst, the
plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his
property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and
enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., that it causes the plaintiff
to suffer substantial actual damage. Third, the interference with the protected
interest must … also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature,
duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and
enjoyment of the land.” Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 263 (cleaned up).
As with the negligence claim, the Court finds this argument
unpersuasive. Plaintiffs pleaded facts sufficient to show that Defendant had a
duty to repair the roof. Whether this makes Defendant a “manager” of the
property is irrelevant.  Plaintiffs
allege facts sufficient to find that Defendant’s failure to repair the roof caused
a substantial and unreasonable interference with their use of the rental
unit.  SAC ¶ 18-30. Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to the nuisance claim.
 
IV. IIED
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail to state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
To state an IIED claim, a plaintiff must allege facts
showing: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous
 
conduct.” Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54
Cal.3d 868, 903 (citations omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). “In
order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with great specificity the
acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Vasquez v. Franklin Management
Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832 (cleaned up).
“Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Id. at
p. 903. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” Smith v. BP Lubricants
USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147 (citations omitted) (internal
quotation marks omitted). “[W]hether conduct is outrageous is ‘“usually” a
question of fact.’” Id. at p.148. (quoting Barker v. Fox &
Associates (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 333, 356.)
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,
922, the Court of Appeal held that “the availability of a remedy for breach of
implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord
for intentional infliction of mental distress if the landlord’s acts are
extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental distress.”  There, the plaintiffs alleged repeatedly
notifying the property manager of the defects, and the court concluded that
whether the landlord’s intentional and willful failure to remediate
uninhabitable conditions was “extreme and outrageous” was a factual issue. Ibid.
However, while specific allegations that the landlord knowingly allowed
uninhabitable conditions to continue will suffice under certain circumstances, conclusory
allegations of a failure to repair will not establish extreme and outrageous
conduct.
While Plaintiffs allege that Defendant knew about the state
of the roof, they do not allege any specific facts regarding Defendant’s notice
of the roof’s defects. Each of Plaintiffs’ alleged reports of defects refer
only to the Aguilar, their landlord. SAC ¶¶ 17, 18, 28. Because extreme or
outrageous acts must be pleaded with great specificity, it is insufficient for
Plaintiffs to rely on a conclusory statement of Defendant’s knowledge.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the IIED claim is sustained with leave to amend.  
Unfair Business Practice
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege a cause of
action for violation of the unfair competition law because the alleged unfair
business practice was renting out the uninhabitable apartment, and Defendant
was not the owner or landlord. 
“An ‘unlawful’ business activity includes ‘anything that can
properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden
by law.’”  Smith v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co., 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 717-718 (2001).  Section 17200 “borrows” from violations of
other laws and “treats them as ‘unlawful’ practices independently actionable
under the unfair competition law.”  Id.
at 718.   
“The UCL’s purpose is to protect both consumers and
competitors by promoting fair competition in commercial markets for goods and
services. An association does not participate as a business in the commercial
market, much less compete in it.”  That
v. Alders Maintenance Assn. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1427.  “An association, operating under its governing
documents to maintain its premises and conduct required proceedings, possesses
none of the relevant features the UCL was intended to address.” Ibid. 
 
 
Because Defendant is a homeowners association, it is not a
business for purpose of the unfair competition law, and its failure to make
necessary repairs to common areas is not a “business practice.”  Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer without leave to amend. 
Motion to Strike
First, Defendant argues that the SAC should be stricken
entirely because Plaintiffs failed to properly request leave to amend the
complaint to name Defendant.  This
argument is without merit. Plaintiffs filed a LACIV 105 Amendment to Complaint
(Fictitious/Incorrect Name) form on 1/26/24. As is routine, the Court granted
this motion on an ex parte basis. Moreover, since then, Defendant has appeared,
answered, and demurred to the First Amended Complaint without raising this
issue.  For those reasons, the motion to
strike the SAC is denied. 
Unfair Business Practices
Defendant’s motion to strike damages is moot because the
Court sustained the demurrer to the UCL claim. 

Punitive Damages 
Defendant moves to strike from Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive damages. 
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code Section 3294. College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721. These statutory elements include allegations that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (a). “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(1).
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a
motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255. (citations omitted). “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166 (fn. omitted) (citations omitted). Punitive damages may be assessed
against an employer where the employer authorized or ratified a malicious act. College
Hospital Inc., supra,8 Cal.4th at. p 723.
For nonintentional torts, punitive damages may be assessed “when
the conduct constitutes conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
Peterson v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 147, 158; “[A] conscious
disregard of the safety of others may [thus] constitute malice within the
meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. To justify an award of punitive
damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully
and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.’” Hasson v. Ford Motor
Co., supra, 32 Cal.3d at p. 402, (quoting Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896 (Taylor). To establish malice, “it is not
sufficient to show only that the defendant’s conduct was negligent, grossly
negligent or even reckless.” Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor
Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.
As with the intentional infliction of emotional distress
claim, Plaintiffs fail to plead any specific facts showing that Defendant was
aware of the condition of the roof, or the impact that it had on Plaintiffs’
apartment. Additionally, Plaintiffs improperly request punitive damages “not
less than $200,000.”  See Civil
Code § 3295, subd. (e) (“No claim for exemplary damages shall state an amount
or amounts.”).  Accordingly, the Court
grants Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to the negligence and
nuisance claims and sustained with leave to amend as to the intentional
infliction of emotional distress claim. 
The demurrer is sustained without leave as to the unfair competition
claim. Defendant’s motion to strike is granted with leave to amend as to
punitive damages only.