 Case Number:  23STCV19371    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Tesla, Inc.
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Rameel Nissan
                                    
        
The Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
The Court schedules
a post-arbitration status conference for February 26, 2025 at 8:30 am.  The parties are to file a Joint Status
Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference hearing.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 14, 2023,
Plaintiff Rameel Nissan filed a Complaint against Defendant Tesla, Inc. on
causes of action arising from the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
On September 21,
2023, Defendant filed its Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration. In support of
its Motion, Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Raymond Kim; (2)
Declaration of Ali Ameripour; (3) Request for Judicial Notice; and (4) Proposed
Order. 
 
On December 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed: (1) Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Opposition
(“Opposition”), which included Declaration of Nadia Yashar and Declaration of
Rameel Nissan; and (2) Copies of Non-California Authorities Cited in
Opposition. 
 
On January 3, 2024,
Defendant filed its Reply. Defendant concurrently filed Declaration of Kevin
Jay. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests that the Court take
judicial notice of the Complaint filed in this matter. 
 
        The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice as to items filed in this matter. Any party
that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to a matter filed in this action may
simply cite directly to the document by execution and filing date. (See Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)
 
II.      
Legal
Standard 
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an
existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable
and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists [unless it
makes certain determinations].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“Under both federal and state law, arbitration
agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are revocable for reasons
under state law that would render any contract revocable. . . . Reasons that would render any
contract revocable under state law include fraud, duress, and
unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
231, 239, citations omitted.)
 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the existence of an
arbitration agreement.¿The party opposing the petition bears the burden of
establishing a defense to the agreement's enforcement by a preponderance of the
evidence.¿In determining whether there is a duty to arbitrate, the trial court
must, at least to some extent, examine and construe the agreement.” (Tiri,
supra, at p. 239.)
 
III.     Discussion
 
A.      The
Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant submits a four-page document titled “Motor
Vehicle Order Agreement” (“MVOA”) (Decl. Kim, Exh. 1.) The MVOA includes an
“agreement to arbitrate” (“MVOA Arbitration Provision”). (Id. at Exh. 1,
p. 3.) According to the Declaration of Raymond Kim, Plaintiff signed this
contract by pressing an online button when placing an order for the vehicle.
(Decl. Kim, ¶ 4.) Plaintiff has not argued that he did not agree to the MVOA.
Defendant meets its initial burden in showing that there is an arbitration
provision here. 
 
The following are the relevant portions of the MVOA
Arbitration Provision:
 
“Agreement to Arbitrate. 
        
[¶]
        
“If you have
a concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and your
desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.
 
“If not
resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or relating
to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by
a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as
claims related to statements about our products. 
 
“We will
pay all AAA fees for any arbitration, which will be held in the city or county
of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an
arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org.
 
“The
arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not
consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot
hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others
purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring
claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a court or
arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be
enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or
remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other
claims must be arbitrated.”
 
(Decl.
Kim, Exh. 1, p. 3.)
 
In addition, Defendant submits a seven-page document
titled “Retail Installment Sale Contract” (“RISC”). (Decl. Kim, Exh. 2.) The
RISC has a section on its first page titled “Agreement to Arbitrate.” (Id. at
Exh. 2, p. 1.) This section appears to have an electronic signature only by
Plaintiff and not by Defendant. (Ibid.) The last page of the RISC has a
section titled “Arbitration Provision” (“RISC Arbitration Provision”). (Id. at
Exh. 2, p. 7.) Plaintiff has not argued that he did not agree to the RISC.
Defendant meets its initial burden in showing that there is an arbitration
provision here.
 
        The following are the relevant portions
of the RISC Arbitration Provision:
 
“ARBITRATION PROVISION
 
. . .
 
“1.
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY
ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.
 
“2. IF A
DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS
REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US
INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLAS ARBITRATION OF ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL
ARBITRATIONS.
 
“3.
DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN
IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE
AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
 
“Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. If federal
law provides that a claim or dispute is not subject to binding arbitration,
this Arbitration Provision shall not apply to such claim or dispute. Any claim
or dispute is to be arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis
and not as a class action. You expressly waive any right you may have to
arbitrate a class action. You may choose the American Arbitration Association,
1633 Broadway, 10th Floor, New York, New York 10019 (www.adr.org), or any other
organization to conduct the arbitration subject to our approval. You may get a
copy of the rules of an arbitration organization by contacting the organization
or visiting its website.
 
“. . . We
will pay your filing, administration, service or case management fee and your arbitrator
or hearing fee all up to a maximum of $5000, unless the law or the rules of the
chosen arbitration organization require us to pay more. The amount we pay may
be reimbursed in whole or in part by decision of the arbitrator if the
arbitrator finds that any of your claims is frivolous under applicable law.
Each party shall be responsible for its own attorney, expert and other fees,
unless awarded by the arbitrator under applicable law. If the chosen
arbitration organization’s rules conflict with this Arbitration Provision, then
the provisions of this Arbitration Provision shall control. . . .”
 
(Decl.
Kim, Exh. 2, p. 7.)
 
B.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the case pending the outcome
of arbitration. (Motion, pp. 12:25–28, 13:1–2.)
 
        Defendant
argues: (1) that Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the MVOA
Arbitration Provision and the RISC Arbitration Provision; (2) that the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) and the California Arbitration Act (CAA) require
compliance with Plaintiff’s agreements to arbitrate; (3) that arbitration
should be compelled under the MVOA, but if not then it should be compelled
under the RISC; and (4) that Plaintiff’s claims should be stayed pending arbitration.
(Motion, pp. 6:24, 8:10–11, 12:12–13, 12:19.)
 
        Plaintiff
opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that the RISC Arbitration Provision is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable; (2) that the Court may not
compel arbitration with a nonparty under any of various doctrines; (3) that
federal district courts have repeatedly held that warrantors have no
independent right to enforce a dealer’s clause; (4) that Plaintiff is not
equitably estopped from refusing arbitration; (5) that equitable estoppel does
not enable a nonsignatory warrantor to use a non-party dealer’s purchase
agreement to compel signatory consumers to arbitrate warranties claims; (6)
that Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 did not hold that
third-party nonsignatories could invoke arbitration; (7) that the FAA does not
apply because the RISC does not involve interstate commerce; and (8) that
public policy does not favor arbitration. (Opposition, pp. 4:24, 5:3, 5:17–19,
14:1–2, 14:16, 16:1–2, 16:10–11, 17:1–2, 18:16.)
 
        In its
Reply, Defendant argues: (1) that “Tesla, Inc.” and “Tesla Motors Inc.” are the
same entity; (2) that the Opposition does not address the MVOA or the MVOA
Arbitration Provision; (3) that Plaintiff’s arguments rely entirely on
irrelevant case law as Defendant is the direct contracting party; (4) that the
MVOA Arbitration Provision is neither procedurally nor substantively
unconscionable; (5) that the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act does not
prohibit arbitration; and (6) that the FAA applies here. (Reply, pp. 1:11,
1:24–25, 2:7–8, 2:27, 3:8, 4:14, 5:7–8.)
 
C.      Discussion
of Arguments (Except Unconscionability)
 
Defendant has the better of
most of the arguments. 
 
The Court finds that “Tesla,
Inc.” and “Tesla Motors, Inc.” are the same entity. (Decl. Jay, ¶ 3.) Thus,
Defendant is one of the Parties to the MVOA and the RISC. Plaintiff’s arguments
regarding nonsignatories are therefore inapposite. 
 
Further, these contracts
involve vehicles that are both sold across state lines and travel across state
lines. Unlike certain contracts that are excepted from coverage by the FAA, the
Court is unaware of any such exception for these vehicles. (See, for example, Garrido
v. Air Liquide Indus. U.S. LP (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 833, 837–840,
considering transportation worker’s employment agreement that was exempted from
coverage by the FAA.) Thus, as these contracts involve interstate commerce,
these arbitration provisions are covered by the FAA. 
 
Finally, it is not the public
policy of California that arbitration agreements are disfavored. Rather, “[a]
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.)
 
        The
Court will therefore consider whether the MVOA Arbitration Provision and the
RISC Arbitration Provision are unenforceable on the basis of unconscionability.

 
D.     Unconscionability
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“Agreements to arbitrate may be
invalidated if they are found to be unconscionable.” (Fitz v. NCR Corp.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 713, citations omitted.)
 
“Unconscionability consists of
both procedural and substantive elements. The procedural element addresses the
circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability
pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of
whether they are overly harsh or one-sided. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v.
Pinnacle Mkt. Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246, citations
omitted.)
 
“‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and
substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court
to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.’ But
they need not be present in the same degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is
invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.’ In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa. (Armendariz
v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, [cleaned
up], italics in original, abrogated in part on other grounds by AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2010) 565 U.S. 333.).)
 
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p.
247, citation omitted.)
 
“Moreover, courts are required to determine the unconscionability of
the contract ‘at the time it was made.’” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co.,
LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 920, quoting Civ. Code, § 1670.5.) 
 
“Unconscionability is ultimately a question of law.” (Patterson v.
ITT Consumer Fin. Corp. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1659, 1663, citation
omitted.)
 
2.      Procedural
Unconscionability
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“[P]rocedural unconscionability requires
oppression or surprise. Oppression occurs where a contract involves lack of
negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 247 [cleaned up].)
 
“The procedural element of an
unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion . .
. .” (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.)
 
        “Absent unusual circumstances, a
contract offered on a take-it-or-leave-it is deemed adhesive, and a commercial
transaction conditioned on a party’s acceptance of such a contract is deemed
procedurally unconscionable.” (Vasquez v. Greene Motors, Inc. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 1172, 1184.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues that the RISC Arbitration Provision is
procedurally unconscionable. Plaintiff does not make a specific argument about
the MVOA Arbitration Provision.
 
        Defendant disagrees. 
 
        The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
argument. 
 
        Both the MVOA Arbitration Provision and
the RISC Arbitration Provision are clearly classic take-it-or-leave-it
contracts of adhesion. Defendant did not give Plaintiff a meaningful choice or
opportunity to negotiate the documents.
 
        The Court finds that both the MVOA
Arbitration Provision and the RISC Arbitration Provision to be procedurally
unconscionable.  
 
3.      Substantive
Unconscionability
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“Substantive unconscionability
focuses on overly harsh or one-sided results. In assessing substantive unconscionability, the paramount
consideration is mutuality.” (Fitz, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.
723 [cleaned up].)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues that the RISC Arbitration Provision is
substantively unconscionable, pointing to: (1) the clause that allows Plaintiff
or Defendant to invoke arbitration instead of a court or jury trial; (2) the
clause that gives up the right to class representation; and (3) the clause that
limits discovery. (Opposition, p. 5:10–12.)
 
Plaintiff does not make a specific argument regarding the MVOA
Arbitration Provision. 
 
        Notably, Plaintiff also argues that
“[u]nder Song-Beverly, Plaintiff may not be forced into binding arbitration,
may elect to be a class member if such circumstance arises, and is entitled to
have all fees, costs, and expenses (including attorney and expert fees) paid by
the Defendant manufacturer. Therefore, the arbitration provision is in direct
contradiction to Song-Beverly and, as such, is substantively
unconscionable.” (Opposition, p. 5:12–16, emphasis in original.) This argument
lacks citations, and much of it misstates the law. 
 
        Defendant disagrees, citing a variety of
cases. (Reply, pp. 2–7.)
 
        Defendant has the better argument here. 
 
        It is a given that the whole point of an
arbitration provision is to compel arbitration. While this Court might agree that
arbitration on the whole tends to produce overly harsh and one-sided results
against consumers and in favor of car manufacturers, both California and
federal law favors arbitration. 
 
Moreover, the California Supreme Court has explicitly held that
they are allowed by the FAA, which preempts state refusals to enforce such
waivers on grounds of public policy or unconscionability. (Iskanian v. CLS
Transp. Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 359–360, overruled on other
grounds by Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S. Ct. 1906,
1924–1925.) 
 
Finally, as to limits on discovery, Courts of Appeal
seem to be divided.  Some have upheld
arbitration provisions that limit the right of discovery to one deposition,
with further depositions allowable by a showing of need. (See, for example, Dotson
v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 982–985.) This is because the
Court must “assume that the arbitrator will operate in a reasonable manner in
conformity with the law.” (Ibid.) 
 
However, other Courts of Appeal have noted that such
a provision can add to the substantive unconscionability of an arbitration
agreement. (See, for example, Martinez v. Master Protection Corp. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 107, 118–119 [“Nevertheless, considered against the backdrop of
the other indisputably unconscionable provisions, the limitations on discovery
do, in our view, compound the one-sidedness of the arbitration agreement.”].) 
 
Here, the limitations on depositions are likely to
have overly harsh or one-sided results. However, alone, they do not rise to the
level of finding either the MVOA Arbitration Provision or the RISC Arbitration
Provision to be substantively unconscionable. Since Plaintiff has not requested
that the Court sever this clause, the Court does not consider such relief at
this time. 
 
Under Armendariz and its progeny, the Court
cannot find that the MVOA Arbitration Provision or the RISC Arbitration
Provision are unconscionable without finding that they are both procedurally
and substantively unconscionable. Further, even if the Court were to find that
the RISC Arbitration Agreement was unconscionable, Plaintiff has not argued
that the MVOA Arbitration Provision is also substantively unconscionable.  Either arbitration agreement, standing alone,
is sufficient to compel arbitration. Thus, Plaintiff does not meet his subsequent
burden to show a defense to the arbitration provisions. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
        The Court schedules
a post-arbitration status conference for February 26, 2025 at 8:30 am.  The parties are to file a Joint Status
Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference hearing. 