 Case Number:  22CHCV00138    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-29-23 c/f 8-22-23 c/f 7-19-23
Case
#22CHCV00138
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
ATTORNEY FEES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Automobile Club of Southern California, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Ashlie Anderson, pro per
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Attorney Fees on the Special Motion to Strike the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
November 1, 2021, Plaintiff Ashlie Anderson was involved in an automobile
accident with defendant Ricardo Avelar, and insured with defendants Automobile
Club of Southern California and/or Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile
Club, LLC. Plaintiff alleges Avelar wrongfully denied any liability after
allegedly agreeing to take full responsibility for the accident. 
 
Plaintiff
subsequently submitted a claim with the insurer, which led to a designation of
Plaintiff’s vehicle as a “total loss salvage.” Plaintiff contends said
designation constituted false information as part of greater “general business
practice” for various fraudulent and discriminatory purposes, due in part to
Plaintiff identifying as African American. Individual defendants Frances
Schultz and Gail Louis were employees of insurer at all relevant times.
 
Note,
the complaint identifies Anderson’s insurer as Mercury, and the involvement of
Anderson’s “boyfriend” in communications with the insurers. [Comp., ¶¶ 30, 33.]
Other than communicating the denial of liability by Avelar to Anderson, it’s
not clear from the complaint how Mercury was otherwise involved with the
adjustment of the claim.
 
On
March 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed a 12 cause of action “verified” complaint,
comprised of 108 paragraphs of allegations and exhibits, totaling 92 pages, for
Failing to Signal and Illegal Lane Change; Fraud in Violation of California
Vehicle Code section 11515, subdivision (a); Fraud Based on Concealment;
Non-Disclosure of Material Facts; Slander and Disgorgement of Title; Bad Faith
in Violation of Insurance Code section 790.03, subdivision (b); Fraud in the
Inducement; Civil Rights violations under Unruh and Bane Acts, Civil Code
sections 51 and 52.1, et seq., and 42 U.S.C. section 1983; Fraud; Fraud and
Violation of California Vehicle Code 11515, subdivision (a-b, d-e) in
Falsifying a Settlement Agreement; Criminal Conspiracy in violation of Penal
Code section 182, subdivision (a)(4) and the 14th Amendment; and
Violation of the Unfair Business Practices Act.
 
On
March 14, Anderson filed a 170.6 challenge to Department 47, which led to the
reassignment of the action to Department 49. On September 22, 2022, Department
49 reassigned the case to Department 51, as part of the opening of the new
courtroom. On October 3, 2022, Anderson filed a 170.6 challenge to Department
51, which led to the reassignment of the case to Department 49 a second time. 
 
On
February 2, 2023, Ricardo Avelar answered the complaint.
 
On
March 8, 2023, the court granted the special motion to strike of Automobile
Club of Southern California, Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club,
LLC, Frances Schultz, and Gail Louis to the second through twelfth causes of
action in the complaint. Plaintiff filed an appeal.
 
RULING: Continued to
December 12, 2023.
Defendants
Automobile Club of Southern California, Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile Club, LLC, Frances Schultz, and Gail Louis move for $15,267.43 in
attorney fees ($10,733.11 for the SLAPP motion + $4,534.22 for the instant
motion) following their successful special motion to strike the second through
twelfth causes of action from the complaint of Ashlie Anderson on grounds that
the entire cross-complaint arises from privileged and protected conduct. 
 
Plaintiff in
opposition challenges the motion as untimely, in violation of the stay pending
appeal, and, and improperly claiming fees before entry of judgment, and
unreasonableness of the fees. Plaintiff also cites to “Private Attorney General
doctrine,” as a basis justifying the underlying complaint, thereby “vindicating”
the pursuit of rights. Plaintiff cites to “Private Attorney General doctrine”
as a means of in fact awarding fees in favor of Plaintiff instead. Plaintiff
challenges the underlying order granting the special motion to strike, due in
part from the “hostility, prejudice and impatience” exhibited by the judicial
officer in “intentionally” remaining “ignorant” on “13 pertinent” exhibits
omitted from the small claims amended complaint incorporated as Exhibit G in
the motion. Plaintiff also blames the court for a deprivation of the
opportunity to argue the motion, due to the unawareness of the availability of
the tentative ruling on the court operated website, and poor phone connection.
Plaintiff also asserts “resentment, bias and prejudice” due to the handling of
another pending case against a different set of defendants as part of the
argument for court impartiality. Finally, Plaintiff requests an opportunity to
conduct additional discovery into examining the lodestar basis for the attorney
fee calculation. The opposition consists of 15 pages of points and authorities,
two pages of a declaration, and 70 pages of exhibits regarding the underlying
insurance claim. 
 
Defendants
in reply challenge the format of the opposition. Defendant describes the
opposition as an effort to reargue the motion after the hearing, and notes the
requirement that a pro per Plaintiff remains subject to the same standard as
all appearing parties before the court. On the fee request, Defendants
reiterate the right to fees and costs under the SLAPP statute without the
necessity of a memorandum of costs, prior to the entry of any judgment, and
even during an appeal. Defendant proceeds to address the service issues in the
underlying action. Finally, Defendants maintains all fees and costs are
reasonable.
 
Notwithstanding
the full briefing, the subject motion was continued from the prior July 19,
2023, hearing date to August 22, 2023, and again to the instant hearing date on
September 19, 2023, due to the notice from Anderson regarding a
hospitalization beginning on July 2, 2023, and until at least July 8, 2023. In
an “abundance of caution,” the court continued the hearings, due to the right
to appear for oral argument, and a finding of no intention of a waiver to
appear. (Moles v. Regents of University
of California (1982) 32 Cal.3d 867, 871.) Once
again, Anderson effectively refiled the same notice of unavailability on August
19, 2023, without any new information. 
 
Because the court
continued the hearing in a separate action also involving Anderson as an in pro
per Plaintiff, for consistency, the court continues the hearing to the same
date as the subject hearing—December 12, 2023. 
If Anderson elects to seek another
continuance, Anderson is ordered to produce a current and updated (i.e., dated
not earlier than November 1, 2023) medically supported supplemental declaration
explaining any inability to appear. The court will not accept continuing open-ended
requests without any documented medical support. 
 
The court will consider any new request but reserves the right to
proceed with the hearing either way. The presentation of the same cut and
pasted request or lack of any request will be noted in the court record as
well. Any supplemental declaration shall be filed no later than nine (9) court
days before the hearing date—November 29, 2023. No further briefs are required
from Defendants unless they seek to challenge any repetitive request for a
continuance, in which case, Defendants may file a reply brief five (5) court
days before the hearing date—December 5, 2023.
 
Moving
party to give notice and to file proof of notice within 7 calendar days from
the date of this order.
 
 