 Case Number:  21STCV21153    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  FARIDEH RAUBITSCHEK, Plaintiff(s), vs.  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV21153  [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING HEARING ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. November 6, 2023  Defendant County of Los Angeles (“County”) filed this motion for summary judgment on August 21, 2023, setting it for hearing on November 6, 2023.    On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition and raises an issue regarding documents produced by the County, which Plaintiff argues was produced for the first time on its motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff requests the Court continue the hearing to allow Plaintiff time to conduct additional discovery, including deposing individuals identified by the County’s employee Loren Tiede (“Tiede”) at deposition, and to serve additional discovery in response to some of the previously unproduced documents attached to Tiede’s declaration. Plaintiff avers the discovery cut-off deadline is April 22, 2024. Trial is currently set for May 22, 2024.   The Court therefore continues the hearing date from November 6, 2023, to ________, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. As this date is well past the current trial date, the Court also continues the trial to _____________. Absent a stipulation between the parties, discovery and motion deadlines will not move with the new trial date, and remain tied to the May 22, 2024 trial date, with the exception of briefing related to this Motion for Summary Judgment.  Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.      PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court      