 Case Number:  22STCV03568    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARBELLA VILLA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  200 PINE AVENUE, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV03568  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. November 6, 2023   Plaintiff Marbella Villa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants 200 Pine Avenue, LLC, Automac Parking, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for damages arising from a slip and fall on water. Trial is currently set for June 11, 2024.  As relevant to the instant motion, on September 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint naming Octopus Japanese Cuisine, Inc. as Doe 1 and Octopus Restaurant Long Beach, Inc. as Roe 2. On October 11, 2022, Automac Parking, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnification, contribution, and declaratory relief against 200 Pine Avenue, LLC, Riverrock Mgmt Group, and Octopus Restaurant. On November 17, 2022, Defendant 200 Pine Avenue, LLC filed its first amended cross-complaint against Octopus Restaurant Long Beach, Inc. and Automac Parking for breach of contract (additional insurance), express and implied indemnification, comparative contribution, equitable indemnity, apportionment, and declaratory relief.  On November 9, 2022, Octopus Restaurant Long Beach, Inc. (“Octopus Restaurant”) filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. At this time, Octopus Restaurant seeks leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint to allege a second cause of action for breach of contract. The motion is unopposed.  However, the Court is unable to locate Octopus Restaurant’s original cross-complaint in which it seeks leave to amend. Counsel for Octopus Restaurant declares Octopus Restaurant filed its Answer and its cross-complaint on November 7, 2022. (Dilts Decl. ¶ 3.) Around that time, the Court’s docket only demonstrates Octopus Restaurant filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint on November 9, 2022. There is no record of any cross-complaint filed by Octopus Restaurant.   Accordingly, Octopus Restaurant motion for leave to amend a non-existent cross-complaint is DENIED.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   