 Case Number:  23GDCV02625    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  D 
TENATIVE RULING

 
Calendar:                                                                     5                                                                      
Date:               11/15/2024
                                         
Case No:         23 GDCV02625          Trial Date:       05/04/2026

Case Name:     Bagumyan
v. Lee
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
                                                                              
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Gevorg
Bagumyan    
Responding
Party:       Defendant William Lee  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One 
 
CHRONOLOGY
Date Discovery served :          No
POS  (March 12, 2024)  
Extension to Respond to:        June 28, 2024  (Ex. 2)
Date Responses served:          July 5, 2024
August 5,
2024  



Date
Motion served:               September 19, 2024 
 
ANALYSIS:
Procedural
Motion to Compel Further Responses
The memorandum indicates this
motion is brought under CCP § 2030.290, under which, “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party
“waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any
objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product...”  Under
subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an
order compelling response to the interrogatories.” 
 
The motion indicates, however, that
defendant has in fact served responses to the subject interrogatories, and also
served verified supplemental responses to the discovery before this motion was
filed.  [Chica Decl., paras. 8-10, Exs.
4, 6].  
 
There is accordingly no need for an
order compelling responses to the interrogatories, as responses have already
been served. 
 
Plaintiff should be pursuing a
motion to compel further responses to the discovery, not initial
responses.  
 
This result is problematic, as
plaintiff has not in the motion cited to any statutory authority supporting an
order to compel further responses, so there is no notice to the responding
party that such relief is being sought.  
In addition, plaintiff has failed to comply with mandatory procedures
for pursuing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories, including
meeting and conferring concerning the latest set of responses, and filing a
separate statement, as discussed below.
 
Moreover, plaintiff filed this
motion under a reservation for a motion to compel discovery “not ‘Further
Discovery.’”  This approach is
improper.   The motion should have been
brought and reserved as a motion to compel further discovery, to avoid calendar
congestion and jumping ahead of other discovery motions of this nature. 
 
 To the extent the motion appears to argue that
defendant did not timely serve responses, and the initial responses were not
verified, plaintiff concedes that supplemental responses now have been
served.  The copy of those responses
submitted with the moving papers show that the supplemental responses were in
fact verified.  [See Chica Decl., Ex. 6,
p. 126].  No order compelling responses
is warranted here, and if plaintiff wants to argue that objections have been
waived, plaintiff should have done so in a motion to compel further
responses.  The motion is be denied on
the ground responses have been served.  
 
No Separate Statement
            Since what plaintiff seeks by this motion is further code
compliant responses without objections, this is a motion for further responses
to interrogatories.  
 
            As pointed out in the opposition, such
a motion requires the filing of a separate statement.  

 
CRC Rule 3.1345 requires that, “Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement.”   
 
The motions that require a separate
statement include a motion:
“(2) To compel further responses to
interrogatories.” 
 
The motion here concerns responses
and their content, including the assertion of objections, and compliance with
the Code.  The responses submitted with
the moving papers, particularly the supplemental responses,  include substantive responses along with
objections.  
 
The separate statement requirement
is mandatory, and warrants the trial court denying a motion which is not
accompanied by a separate statement.  People
ex rel. Harris v. Sarpas (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1554; Mills
v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 (concluding that
because the propounding party did not comply with the separate statement
requirements, “the trial court was well within its discretion to deny the
motion to compel discovery on that basis.”).
 
Without a separate statement the
court cannot in good faith determine whether plaintiff is entitled to further
responses.   
 
No Meet and Confer on Supplemental Responses
Since what plaintiff seeks by this
motion is further code compliant responses without objections, this is a motion
for further responses to interrogatories. 

 
            As pointed
out in the opposition, such a motion requires that before filing the motion,
moving party meet and confer in good faith. 
 
Under CCP § 2030.300, where a party
brings a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories such a motion
“shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
 
Section 2016.040 requires:
“A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”
 
The motion includes a meet and
confer correspondence addressing the problems with defendant’s initial
discovery responses, but does not show that any meet and confer took place
since the service of the supplemental responses on August 5, 2024.  [See Chica Decl., paras. 9, 10, Exs. 5,
6].  The declaration of counsel concedes
that no meet and confer occurred following service of the supplemental
responses, stating that, “Plaintiff was left with no reasonable alternative but
to file this Motion.”  [Chica  Decl., para. 12]. 
 
The court does not consider this
approach a reasonable attempt to informally resolve the issues prior to filing
the motion. Contrary to the suggestion in the moving papers that the
supplemental responses did not include substantive responses, that assertion is
not true. The court’s review of those responses shows that substantive
responses were provided to most, if not all of, the interrogatories. [See Ex.
6].  It would appear that had there been
a meaningful meet and confer, the matter may not have required court
intervention. 
 
Defendant in opposition, in fact,
indicates that plaintiff granted extensions for the filing of supplemental
discovery responses to August 5, 2024. 
[Cheng Decl., para. 12, Ex. F]. 
This extension could possibly constitute a waiver of any argument that
responses were untimely, although the extension was for responses without
objections.  [Ex. F].  Defendant also confirms that supplemental
responses were served on August 5, 2024, and there was no meet and confer at
all concerning those responses.  [Cheng
Decl., paras. 13, 14, 15, Ex. G].  The
opposition suggests that meet and confer efforts may have avoided the need for
this motion.  
 
The court in the future expects
that the parties fully comply with all meet and confer obligations in
connection with this litigation.  
 
Overall,
the motion is denied as improperly brought as a motion to compel responses to
interrogatories, when verified responses had been served at the time the motion
was filed.  The motion is also not
supported by a request for further responses, a sufficient meet and confer
declaration or a separate statement.  Plaintiff
is required to file a motion for further responses following appropriate meet
and confer efforts. Hence, such a motion, if necessary, must be accompanied by
a proper separate statement.  

 
Sanctions
With respect to interrogatories,
under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 

 
The motion is denied, because it
was brought improperly as a motion to compel responses when verified responses
had been served before the motion was prepared. Therefore, the motion was not
necessary. Hence, the expense of preparing it will not be shifted to
defendant.  No sanctions awarded. 
 
Defendant in the opposition also
seeks sanctions, as plaintiff 
unsuccessfully has brought the motion, arguing that plaintiff has filed
three other motions to compel initial responses to discovery which should have
been brought as motions for further discovery, and that if sanctions are
imposed, plaintiff will realize that the motions should not have been brought
as motions for initial responses, and that a good faith meet and confer is
necessary for all future discovery disputes. 
While the court recognizes that the motion was unsuccessfully brought,
and violated several requirements for bring a discovery motion of this nature,
the court also recognizes that counsel’s declaration in opposition to the
motion concedes that defendant’s counsel “mistakenly failed to confirm the
extension” to initially respond to the discovery.  [Cheng Decl., para. 10].  Under these circumstances, there is shared
responsibility for the ongoing discovery dispute. No sanctions are awarded to
either side.        
 
RULING:
Motion by Plaintiff Gevorg Bagumyan to Compel Responses by
Defendant William Lee to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories—General (Set One) is
DENIED.  
 
The motion improperly is brought as a motion to compel
responses to interrogatories, when responses had been served.  
 
Plaintiff in its motion has not relied on statutory
authority pertaining to further responses to discovery. Rather, plaintiff improperly
has reserved this motion under a reservation for a motion to compel discovery,
not further discovery. Contrary to this reservation, the motion seeks further
responses following the service of responses and supplemental responses.  A hearing reservation should have been made
for a motion to compel further responses to discovery.  Reserving a motion under an improper reservation
category manipulates the Court
Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants.
 
Plaintiff is required to file a motion for further responses
following appropriate meet and confer efforts. Any such motion, if necessary,
must be accompanied by a proper separate statement, and must be reserved under
the proper reservation category.  
 
Monetary
sanctions requested by plaintiff are DENIED. 
 
Monetary
sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED.  
 
 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 