 Case Number:  24NNCV00309    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Calendar:                                                                     7                                                          
Date:                                                   11/15/2024                                          
Case No:         24
NNCV00309
Case Name:     Umpqua
Bank v. Dental Alloys USA, Inc., et al.
 
MOTION FOR TURNOVER ORDER
 
Moving Party:           
Plaintiff Umpqua Bank 
Responding Party:      Defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Ilya
Gorbonos  (No Opposition)  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Order directing Judgment Debtor
Ilya Gorbonos to transfer to the Sheriff possession of Judgment Debtor
Gorbonos’ stock certificates, voting trust certificates, and other documents
evidencing Judgment Debtor Gorbonos’ ownership in STRS, Inc. 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS:
Plaintiff Umpqua Bank alleges that
in May of 2019, plaintiff provided a business expressline of credit to
defendant Dental Alloys USA, Inc. in the amount of $50,000, which credit line
is evidenced by a small business loan application and a promissory note.  Pursuant to the credit line documents,
defendant agreed to repay the outstanding principal balance of the loan, along
with annual fees, late charges, and interest in the event of default.  Defendant has breached its obligations by
failing to pay all sums which became due, with the last payment being made in
March of 2023, and despite demand has failed to cure the default or pay the
monies due and owing.  
 
The complaint alleges that to
induce plaintiff to enter into the application and note, defendant Ilya
Gorbonos, an individual, executed in writing a Commercial Guaranty,
unconditionally guaranteeing to pay all indebtedness of Dental Alloys to
plaintiff, which guarantee Gorbonos has failed to honor.   
 
On July 9, 2024, Judgment by the
Court by Default was entered, signed and filed, based on plaintiff’s written
declaration.  Judgment was entered for
plaintiff Umpqua Bank and against defendants Dental Alloys USA, Inc. and Ilya
Gorbonos, in the total sum of $63,416.96. 

 
On July 29, 2024, a Writ of
Execution (Money Judgment) was executed by the clerk of the court, for the
total amount due of $63,456.96, plus daily interest
from the date of the writ at the legal rate in the daily sum  of $17.37. 

 
ANALYSIS:
            Relief here is sought pursuant to CCP § 699.040,
which provides:
“(a) If a writ of execution is issued, the judgment creditor may apply
to the court ex parte, or on noticed motion if the court so directs or a court
rule so requires, for an order directing the judgment debtor to transfer to the
levying officer either or both of the following:
(1) Possession of the property sought to be levied upon if the
property is sought to be levied upon by taking it into custody.
(2) Possession of documentary evidence of title to property of or a
debt owed to the judgment debtor that is sought to be levied upon. An order
pursuant to this paragraph may be served when the property or debt is levied
upon or thereafter.
(b) The court may issue an order pursuant to this section upon a
showing of need for the order.
(c) The order shall be personally served on the judgment debtor and
shall contain a notice to the judgment debtor that failure to comply with the
order may subject the judgment debtor to arrest and punishment for contempt of
court.”
Here, a noticed motion has been
made. As noted above, a writ of execution was issued on July 29, 2024.  The section requires a “showing
of need for the order.”  Judgment
creditor relies on a declaration of counsel, in which it is stated that
judgment has been entered, no appeal was taken of the judgment, the time for
appeal has elapsed, and “the Judgment remains unsatisfied.”  [Spiwak Decl. ¶ 2].  The declaration then states that it is
believed the judgment debtor Gorbonos is the CEO, CFO and Director of STRS,
Inc., and attaches California Secretary of State documents to this effect. [Spiwak Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1]. 
The business STRS, Inc. is described in the documents as a business for
“Consulting, Construction.”  [Ex. 1].   Judgment Creditor is accordingly
requesting that an order be issued directing judgment debtor Gorbonos to
transfer to the sheriff possession of all of his stock certificates, voting
trust certificates and other documents evidencing Gorbonos’ ownership in STRS,
Inc.  [Spiwak Decl. ¶ 6].  Counsel states, “[a]t this time, I am
informed and believe, and on that basis allege, that Judgment Debtor Gorbonos
has no other assets subject to immediate execution and that his principal asset
is his ownership in STRS, INC., a California Corporation.”  [Spiwak Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1].  
 
Judgment creditor argues that the
tangible personal properly sought to be transferred from judgment debtor
Gorbonos is in the possession of or under the control of Gorbonos, so that to
levy on such property, the levying officer must take it into custody under CCP
§ 700.030.  CCP § 700.030 provides:
“Unless another method of levy is
provided by this article, to levy upon tangible personal property in the
possession or under the control of the judgment debtor, the levying officer
shall take the property into custody.”
 
Judgment creditor also argues that
the tangible personal property at issue is included within CCP § 680.370, which
provides, “‘Tangible personal property’ includes chattel paper, documents of
title, instruments, securities, and money.” 

 
Judgment creditor argues that as
such, the tangible personal property as described in the application is subject
to a turnover order under CCP § 699.040. 

 
As noted above, CCP § 699.040 (b)
requires a showing of need for the order. 

 
This presentation is not a
particularly strong showing of need under CCP § 699.040., with respect to the
representation that the judgment is unsatisfied. Such a showing is the case
with all such applications.  It is not
explained what efforts have been made to satisfy the judgment as against either
judgment debtor, which efforts have been unsuccessful.  The judgment was entered in July of 2024, and
this motion filed in September of 2024, only two months later.  The file shows that there has not yet been a
judgment debtor examination conducted, but one is scheduled for December 20,
2024.  
 
Hence,it is clear that no facts have
been offered explaining why judgment creditor believes that the ownership in a
corporation unrelated to this action is the only asset available to the
individual.  It is not explained why the
corporate judgment debtor cannot satisfy the judgment, such as that it has gone
out of business.  There is no other
evidence, such as a transcript from a judgment debtor examination, which would
suggest that there are no other assets available to pursue in satisfaction of
the judgment.  The court will discuss at
the hearing if there are any further facts which could be offered to establish
a “need” for the order.     
 
However, the court is mindful that
no opposition has been filed. It is within the courts discretion to issue the
order as requested, but the court elects not to do so given the inadequate
showing of no alternative sources of recovery. 
 
RULING:
[No
Opposition]
Motion for Turnover Order in Aid of Execution is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The Court is not
satisfied on the current showing that judgment creditor has demonstrated a need
for the order, as required under CCP § 699.040 (b). 
 
 
 DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
              
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 
 