 Case Number:  24GDCV00256    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Calendar:         6
Date:               11/15/2024
Case No.         24
GDCV00256                     Trial
Date:       None
Set 
Case Name:     Gevorkyan
v. Hyundai Motor America, et al.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
 
Moving
Party:                         Defendant Hyundai Motor America (Arbitration) 
                                                            Plaintiff
Nataly Gevorkyan (Further Documents)     
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff Nataly Gevorkyan
(Arbitration) 
                                                            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America (Further Documents) 

 
RELIEF REQUESTED:         
Arbitration
            Order compelling
plaintiff to arbitrate all of plaintiff’s claims and staying this action
pending the outcome of arbitration
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS:
Plaintiff Nataly Gevorkyan alleges
that in October of 2021 plaintiff leased a 2022 Hyundai Elantra, in connection
with which defendant Hyundai Motor America issued a written warranty, in which
defendant Hyundai Motor America undertook to preserve or maintain the utility
or performance of the vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in
such utility or performance. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle
was delivered to plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty
and developed other serious defects and nonconformities, including electrical, suspension
and structural system defects.  
 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the defects manifested themselves in the vehicle
within the applicable warranty period, and substantially impair the use, value,
or safety of the vehicle.  Plaintiff
alleges that plaintiff delivered the vehicle to an authorized repair facility
to repair the nonconformities, but defendant has been unable to conform the
vehicle to warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that
notwithstanding plaintiff’s entitlement, defendant Hyundai Motor America has
failed to either promptly replace the vehicle or to promptly make
restitution.  
 
The
complaint also alleges that plaintiff delivered the vehicle to defendant
Hyundai of Glendale for repairs on numerous occasions, and that defendant
Hyundai of Glendale breached its duty to plaintiff to use ordinary care and
skill by failing to properly store, prepare, and repair the vehicle in
accordance with industry standards. 
 
The
complaint alleges three causes of action for Violation of the Song Beverly Act,
for breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranty, and violation of
section 1793.2, as well as a fourth cause of action for negligent repair. 
 
The
file shows that on February 15, 2024, plaintiff filed two Requests for
Dismissal, one requesting dismissal of this action without prejudice as to
defendant Hyundai of Glendale, LLC, and the other requesting dismissal without
prejudice of the fourth cause of action for negligent repair.  The dismissals were entered as requested the
same date.  
 

ANALYSIS:
Arbitration
Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(Hyundai) brings this motion seeking an order compelling plaintiff to arbitrate
this matter, and an order staying the action pending the outcome of the
arbitration.  
 
CCP § 1281.2 , governing orders to
arbitrate controversies, provides, in pertinent part:
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the
agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines
that:
(a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds exist for rescission
of the agreement.” 
 
            Under the Federal Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements
“shall be valid, irrevocable and enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist
at law or in equity for the revocation of a contract.”   9 U.S.C. section 2. 
 
            There
is a strong public policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts
concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of
arbitration.  Moncharsh v. Heily &
Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9 (“courts will ‘indulge every intendment to give
effect to such proceedings.’”) (quotation omitted).  “[A]rbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question.” 
Vianna v. Doctors’ Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186,
1189, quoting Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.  See also AT&T Mobility, LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339. 

 
            In this case, defendant has
submitted a copy of an Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information for
plaintiff’s vehicle.  [Ameripour Decl.,
para. 3, Ex. 3].  Defendant has also
submitted a Connected Services Agreement, pursuant to a declaration of the
Director of Connected Ops and Owner Apps/Web for Hyundai Motor America
Corporation, who indicates had to have been agreed to when plaintiff activated
Bluelink services for the vehicle through the online enrollment process. [Rao
Decl., paras. 3-6, Ex. 3].  Defendant
argues that both of these agreements include binding arbitration
provisions.   
 
            The Owner’s Handbook
& Warranty Information for
2022 includes a provision, “BINDING ARBITRATION FOR CALIFORNIA VEHICLES ONLY,”
which states, in pertinent part:

“PLEASE
READ THIS SECTION IN ITS ENTIRETY AS IT AFFECTS YOUR RIGHTS THIS SECTION DOES
NOT PRECLUDE YOU FROM FIRST PURSUING ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION THROUGH BBB
AUTO LINE AS DESCRIBED IN THE “ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION” PROVISION IN
SECTION 3 OF THIS HANDBOOK. 
 
If
you purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you
and we, Hyundai Motor America, each agree that any claim or disputes between us
(including between you and any of our affiliated companies) related to or
arising out of your vehicle purchase, advertising for the vehicle, use of your
vehicle, the performance of the vehicle, any service relating to the vehicle,
the vehicle warranty, representations in the warranty, or the duties
contemplated under the warranty, including without limitation claims related to
false or misleading advertising, unfair competition, breach of contract or
warranty, the failure to conform a vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase
or replace your vehicle, or claims for a refund or partial refund of your
vehicle's purchase price (excluding personal injury claims), but excluding
claims brought under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, shall be resolved by
binding arbitration at either your or our election, even if the claim is
initially filed in a court of law. If either you or we elect to resolve our
dispute via arbitration (as opposed to in a court of law), such binding
arbitration shall be administered by and through JAMS Mediation, Arbitration
and ADR Services (JAMS) under its Streamlined Arbitration Rules &
Procedures, or the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules. 
 
***
Notwithstanding
the above, either you or we may file a lawsuit in small claims court for any
claims that otherwise require binding arbitration, if the small claims court
has jurisdiction. In addition, either you or we may invoke any JAMS Streamlined
Arbitration Rules & Procedures or AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules that allow
you or we to have a small claims court decide any claims that otherwise require
binding arbitration. This agreement evidences a transaction involving
interstate commerce and shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C. §§ 1-16. Judgment upon
any
award in arbitration may be entered in any court having jurisdiction.
 
IF
YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE
SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY USING THE
VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING  OR ACCEPTING
BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER
WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE
TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
[Ameripour
Decl. para. 3, Ex. 3, Section 4, pp. 12, 14, bold in original]. 
 
            Defendant argues that the claims in
this action arise out of the warranty, as plaintiff purchased his vehicle in
California, is bringing this action pursuant to the warranty, and has alleged
that repairs have been performed under the warranty, giving Hyundai standing to
compel arbitration under the warranty, as the claims against Hyundai are
fairly interpreted to fall within the arbitration provision of the warranty,
involving “use of [plaintiff’s] vehicle, the performance of the vehicle,
any service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations in
the warranty, or the duties contemplated under the warranty.”  
 
            As an initial matter, plaintiff in
opposition argues that the motion based on the purported Owner’s
Handbook & Warranty Information booklet is improper as the document is not
properly authenticated, as defendant’s counsel, not a person with personal
knowledge, has submitted the document, and defendant has provided no
declaration from a Hyundai representative to authenticate the document.   
 
            It is correct that the Owner’s
Handbook & Warranty Information booklet including the above arbitration provision
is submitted by counsel for defendant, who states, without facts establishing
personal knowledge, that attached is a “true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s
Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information for Plaintiff’s vehicle.  [Ameripour Decl., para. 3, Ex. 3].   No facts are stated concerning counsel’s
personal knowledge of the facts surrounding the origin of the document, such as
that counsel was present when there was assent between the parties, or is in a
position within defendant Hyundai to have been a custodian of records. 
 
            Under Evidence Code 1401(a):
“Authentication of a writing is required before it may be received into
evidence.”  Under Evidence Code section
1400:
“Authentication
of a writing means (a) the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a
finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is
or (b) the establishment of such facts by any other means provided by law.”  
 
            Under Evidence Code section 702 (a),
except for in connection with expert witness opinion testimony, “the testimony
of a witness concerning a particular matter is inadmissible unless he has
personal knowledge of the matter. 
Against a party’s objection, such personal knowledge must be shown
before the witness may testify concerning the matter.”    
 
            No such authentication or personal
knowledge has been established here. Hence, plaintiff has argued that the
evidence is insufficient on this ground. This argument appears to be valid. 
 
            In addition, the document submitted
under counsel’s declaration appears to constitute hearsay without any qualified
witness establishing a business records exception.  
 
Evidence Code sec. 1271 provides:
“Evidence of a writing made as a
record of an act, condition, or event is not made inadmissible by the hearsay
rule when offered to prove the act, condition, or event if:
(a) The writing was made in the
regular course of business;
(b) The writing was made at or near
the time of the act, condition, or event;
(c) The custodian or other
qualified witness testifies to its identity and the mode of its preparation;
and 
(d) The sources of information and
method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness.”
 
In general, the party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Villacreses v. Molinari (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1223,
1230:
 “In determining whether an enforceable
arbitration agreement exists, the initial burden is on the party petitioning to
compel arbitration. “Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory
prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of
proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 413;
see Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972 [64 Cal. Rptr. 2d 843, 938
P.2d 903].) Once the petitioner has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration, to “produc[e]  evidence of, and prov[e] by a preponderance
of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 413.”
Villacreses, at 1230. 
 
Under federal law as well, the
moving party to compel enforcement of an arbitration agreement bears the burden
of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and that the
agreement encompasses the dispute at issue, while the opposing party bears the
party of establishing any defenses to enforceability.  Sanfilippo v. Tinder, Inc. (C.D. Cal.
2018) 2018 WL 6681197, *2.   
 
Here, the argument concerning the
lack of admissible evidence is appropriate. Hence, the court can find that
defendant accordingly has failed to prove, either by admissible evidence, or by
a preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
within the Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information booklet.    
 
There is case law under which it is
suggested that the procedures of document authentication are relaxed in
connection with establishing the existence of an arbitration agreement.   In Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, the court of appeal found that the
trial court had improperly denied a petition to compel arbitration on the
ground that the purported arbitration agreement had not been properly
authenticated.  However, the court of
appeal in Condee observed that, “In this case, although no evidence was
ever introduced to verify the signature’s authenticity, it was never
challenged.”  Condee, at 218.  The case also involved a situation where the
trial court had denied a proffer of a declaration of a custodian of records
which purported to authenticate the agreement.  
Condee, at 217.  Similarly,
the Second District observed in Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165, that if the moving party submits an
unauthenticated agreement to meet its prima facie burden, “and the opposing
party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement,” then
nothing more is required on the initial burden. 
 
Here, the opposing party has argued
that the evidence is not properly submitted.  Defendant in the reply does not offer further
testimony concerning this subject or request that it be permitted to
authenticate the document through an appropriate representative. The court is
inclined to find that defendant in this circumstance has failed to meet its initial
burden sufficient to shift the burden to the party opposing arbitration to
produce evidence of facts necessary to a defense.  This posture is a situation where it is
conceded that there is no signature to the agreement by either side.
Consequently, there is no obligation on the part of plaintiff to directly
challenge that plaintiff executed the agreement or that he did not remember
seeing it or signing it.  This circumstance
is also a situation where, as set forth above, the arbitration provision
includes an opt out term.  [See Ameripour
Decl. para. 3, Ex. 3, Section 4, p. 14, quoted above].  However, there is no evidence submitted with
the motion indicating that plaintiff did not in fact exercise the opt out
option.      
 
            Even if the court were to
consider the document, there are no signatures indicating assent to be bound by
its terms, and defendant in the moving papers has failed to make a clear legal
argument or cite to appropriate authorities pursuant to which assent can be
found by plaintiff’s conduct in seeking to enforce the warranty.  Plaintiff in opposition has submitted her own
declaration in which she states that she “never signed the post-lease
‘Arbitration Agreement,’ including the instant one being submitted by Defendant
in the Owner’s Handbook, because this subsequent ‘Arbitration Agreement’ does
not require a consumer’s express consent nor contains an actual
signature-line.”  [Gevorkyan Decl., para.
6].  
 
            The motion fails to establish that
there was an agreement on the part of plaintiff to arbitrate under the Owner’s
Handbook & Warranty Information booklet or that defendant has standing to
enforce the arbitration provision in that document.  
 
            The opposition also argues that under
existing law, defendant is not permitted to issue an express warranty that also
forces a consumer into binding arbitration over disputes that stem from the
warranty.  Plaintiff relies on Civil Code
section 1793.1 (a)(1) of the Song Beverly Act which states:
“(a)(1)
Every manufacturer, distributor, or retailer making express warranties with
respect to consumer goods shall fully set forth those warranties in simple and
readily understood language, which shall clearly identify the party making the
express warranties, and which shall conform to the federal standards for
disclosure of warranty terms and conditions set forth in the federal
Magnuson-Moss Warranty-Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act (15 U.S.C. Sec.
2301 et seq.), and in the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission adopted
pursuant to the provisions of that act.
 
            Plaintiff argues that the federal
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act grants the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) the power
to regulate alternative dispute resolution claims involving express or implied
warranties.  In exercising that power,
the FTC has expressly promulgated rules that binding mandatory arbitration of
any warranty claim is unlawful.
 
            The Magnuson-Moss Act, at 15 USC
section 2310(a)(2), states, in pertinent part: “(2) The [Federal Trade]
Commission shall prescribe rules setting forth minimum requirements for any
informal dispute settlement procedure which is incorporated into the terms of a
written warranty to which any provision of this chapter applies.”
 
            The FTC, in turn has published 16
C.F.R. section 703.5, which provides for the establishment of informal dispute
resolution procedures, and states, at subdivision (j), “Decisions of the
Mechanism shall not be legally binding on any person.” 
 
            Plaintiff submits legislative
history pursuant to which the FTC repeatedly has affirmed its position that
pursuant to this Rule binding arbitration agreements in consumer warranties are
prohibited. The court notes that the FTC has declined  requests to change Rule 703.5(j) in that
respect, including, most recently, in 2015, when the FTC provided a detailed
analysis of the history of the Rule, and has stated: “the Commission reaffirms
its long-held view that MMWA disfavors, and authorizes the Commission to
prohibit, mandatory binding arbitration in warranties….”   [RFJN,
Attachs. 1-5;  See Attach. 5, 80 Fed.
Reg. 42710, 42719, footnote omitted].  
 
            Plaintiff also cites to case law
in which the courts have deferred to the FTC’s interpretation of the Magnuson
Moss Act.  Rickard v. Teynor’s Homes,
Inc. (USDC, N.D. Ohio 2003) 279 F.Supp.2d 910, 921 (finding that “the FTC’s
expressed rationales for its interpretation of the MMWA indicate that the FTC’s
reading of the statute is based on a reasonable construction of the statute,”
and deferring “to the FTC’s expertise and construction of the statute,” and
concluding, “[t]hus, the MMWA precludes enforcement of binding arbitration
agreements for claims under a written warranty.”). 
 
            Plaintiff argues the FTC’s
reasonable construction of the statutory provisions Congress has entrusted it
with interpreting is reasonable, again pointing to legislative history, in that
the fate of the aggrieved consumer rests with the seller/manufacturer and its
willingness to live up to its promises. Such an interpretation advances the
purpose of consumer protection against unnegotiable contracts. The
interpretation has persisted since 1975, a lengthy time.  [See RFJN, Exs. 3, 4, 5; Rickard, at
919-921;  Smiley v. Citibank
(1996) 517 U.S. 735, 740 (“agency interpretations that are of long standing
come before us with a certain credential of reasonableness, since it is rare
that error would long persist.”)
 
            Defendant in the reply argues that
more recent case law holds that an agency cannot expect deference when the
agency seeks to interpret the Federal Arbitration Act which it does not
administer, in reliance on Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018) 584 U.S.
497.  In Epic, the United States
Supreme Court found that arbitration agreements entered into by employers and
employees which included terms providing for individualized proceedings were
enforceable under the FAA despite an argument by the employees that the
interpretation by the agency enforcing the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA)
offered a conflicting command.  Epic
Systems, at 502.
 
            Defendant relies on language in
which the Court noted that deference to an administrative agency’s
interpretation of law was not warranted in that case, particularly because the
determination in that case involved competing positions from the executive
branch, as the agency, i.e., the National Labor Relations Board, and the United
States (through the Solicitor General) disputed the meaning of the NLRA.  Epic Systems, at 520-521.    
 
            Plaintiff in the moving papers
indicates that in Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo (2024) 144 S.Ct. 2244,
the U.S. Supreme Court, in evaluating the ruling in Epic Systems with
respect to the deference standard established in prior Court precedent, Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc. (1984) 467 U.S.
837, held:
“By
[leaving Chevron behind] however, we do not call into question prior
cases that relied on the Chevron framework.  The holdings of those cases that specific
agency actions are lawful… are still subject to statutory stare decisis
despite the Court’s change in interpretative methodology.” 
Loper
Bright, at 2273. 
 
            There does not appear to be any
competing interpretation of the regulation involved here.  The legal argument here supports the
reasonableness of the consistent interpretation offered by the executive, as
supported by the law relied upon by plaintiff. 
 
 
            The authorities first cited in the
reply recognize that there is a split of authority on this issue.  See Walton v. Rose Mobile Homes LLC (5th
Cir. 2002) 298 F.3d 470, 478-479, and n. 16.
 
            Moreover, this case, as
discussed above, involves a lack of sufficient proof of a valid arbitration
agreement.   
 
            The motion is denied to the extent
defendant relies on the arbitration provision included in the Owner’s Handbook.

            
            This posture leaves the
arbitration provision included in the Connected Services Agreement.    
 
            The Connected Services Agreement is submitted
pursuant to the declaration Vijay Rao, the Director of Connected Ops &
Owner Apps/Web, for Hyundai, who indicates the Connected Services Agreement was
accepted when plaintiff enrolled in the Blueline services and clicked the box
acknowledging that plaintiff had “read and agree[d] to the Blue Line Terms and
Conditions” and then clicked the “Complete” button.   [Rao Decl., para. 3-6, Ex. 1].  The declaration indicates that the phrase
“Terms & Conditions” included a hyperlink to the then effective Connected
Services Agreement and was not prepopulated with a check mark, so that
plaintiff would have had to click that box to acknowledge assent to the
Connected Services Agreement.  [Rao
Decl., para. 6]. 
 
            The Connected Services Agreement
which the declarant indicates was in effect at the time of plaintiff’s
enrollment provides, in pertinent part:
“C.
Binding Arbitration 
MOST
CUSTOMER CONCERNS CAN BE RESOLVED QUICKLY AND TO THE CUSTOMER'S SATISFACTION BY
CONTACTING HYUNDAI’S CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT CONSUMERAFFAIRS@HMAUSA.COM
OR CALLING 800-633-5151 AND THE GENESIS CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT
CUSTOMERCARE@GENESISMOTORSUSA.COM OR CALLING 844-340-9741. IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT THAT THE APPROPRIATE CUSTOMER
SERVICE DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO RESOLVE YOUR CONCERNS, WE EACH AGREE TO RESOLVE
THOSE DISPUTES THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION OR SMALL CLAIMS COURT INSTEAD OF
IN COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AND
SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. …
Arbitration
Agreement:
            (a) Hyundai and you agree to
arbitrate any and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating
to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service
Plans, your Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you
purchase, enroll in or seek product/service support for, whether you are a
Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile application, except any
disputes or claims which under governing law are not subject to arbitration, to
the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. This agreement to arbitrate is
intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between
us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. However, any
dispute you or we may have relating to copyrights or other intellectual
property shall not be governed by this agreement to arbitrate. For the
avoidance of doubt, this means that any claims you or we may have relating to
intellectual property rights against the other, including injunctive and other
relief sought, may be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction. The
agreement to arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to:
 
claims
based in contract, tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any
other legal theory; claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement
(including, but not limited to, claims relating to advertising); claims that
are currently the subject of purported class action litigation in which you are
not a member of a certified class; claims relating to your vehicle for which
you seek product or service support via the sites; claims arising out of or
relating to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act; claims relating to your data
privacy or information security; and claims that may arise after the
termination of this Agreement.
For
purposes of this arbitration provision, references to "Hyundai,"
"you," and "us" shall include our respective parent entities,
subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, employees, predecessors in interest,
successors and assigns, websites of the foregoing, as well as all authorized or
unauthorized users or beneficiaries of services, products or information
provided or made available under this or prior Agreements between us relating
to or arising from any aspect of your use of the Connected Services, Connected
Service Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle or access of the sites.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party may bring an individual action in
small claims court. You agree that, by entering into this Agreement, you and
Hyundai are each waiving the right to a trial by jury or to participate in a
class or representative action to the maximum extent permitted by law. This
Agreement evidences a transaction in interstate commerce, and thus the Federal
Arbitration Act governs the interpretation and enforcement of this arbitration
provision. This arbitration provision shall survive termination of this
Agreement or your relationship with Hyundai for any reason.”
[Rao Decl., Ex. 2, para. 14 C, emphasis in original].
 
             Defendant argues that the claims in this
matter fall within the arbitration provision of the Connected Services
Agreement, as they fall within the agreement “to arbitrate any and all disputes
and claims between us arising out of or relating to…your Vehicle,” and “claims
based in contract,…warranty.”  
 
            The declaration of counsel for
defendant indicates, “On July 1, 2024, my office asked that Plaintiff stipulate
to arbitration.  Plaintiff has not agreed
to stipulate to arbitration.” [Ameripour Decl., para. 2]. 
 
            Plaintiff in opposition argues that
the showing in the moving papers fails to sufficiently show that plaintiff
assented to the arbitration agreement in the Connected Services Agreement
(which plaintiff sometimes refers to as the “Bluelink Agreement”).  Plaintiff argues that the documents which are
submitted, purporting to be a checkbox screen that plaintiff “would have seen
when they activated Bluelink services,” and the Agreement “that was in effect
at that time” are generic and not specific to plaintiff, and so defendant does
not establish that they apply to plaintiff. 
Plaintiff also argues that the showing does not establish that plaintiff
actually checked the box or otherwise signed or agreed to the Connected
Services Agreement.  Plaintiff argues
that while Rao claims that plaintiff enrolled the vehicle in Bluelink service
through the “Dealer-Assisted Enrollment process,” this statement lacks
foundation as Rao was not involved in the process, and does not state facts
showing that he has personal knowledge that plaintiff enrolled in the Bluelink
service, or attach or refer to any documents upon which Rao relied in making
this assertion.  
 
            Plaintiff points out that Rao does
not state directly, for example, that all purchasers of Hyundai vehicles must
enroll in the Bluelink Agreement, or otherwise explain how he knows plaintiff
enrolled in the service.  Plaintiff
argues that the generic enrollment documents attached as Exhibit 1 to the Rao
Declaration suggest that the subscription is voluntary or optional, not that
plaintiff agreed to the terms and conditions of the Connected Services
Agreement, including the arbitration provision. 
 
            A review of the document attached by
Rao as Exhibit 1 shows it is not specific to plaintiff, and appears to have a
check mark agreeing to the terms and conditions pre-populated, contrary to the
declaration.  [See Rao Decl., Ex. 1].  There is no testimony that Hyundai requires
enrollment in the Hyundai Blue Link subscription program, or reference to documentation
or facts supporting that plaintiff activated the Bluelink services.  The declaration states that plaintiff would
have had to check the “read and agreed” terms and conditions box and click the
“complete” button to activate the services. 
[Rao Decl., para. 6].  This
insufficient showing is a significant gap in the evidence with respect to the
assent of plaintiff.   Tellingly, the
face of the Exhibit shows that the generic page includes at the very top of the
page a link to “Waive Enrollment,” and next to the “Complete” button a link to
“Enroll in Blue Link Later.”  [Rao Decl.,
Ex. 1].  This showing strongly suggests
that enrollment in Blue Link and acceptance of the Terms & Conditions in
the Connected Services Agreement was not required, but voluntary, This evidence
establishes that, in the absence of evidence that plaintiff actually opted for
this enrollment, defendant has failed to meet the initial burden of
establishing that an agreement to arbitrate exists under the Connected Services
Agreement.  
 
            The clickwrap agreement case law on
which defendant relies involves situations where the user was required to
explicitly assent by clicking “I agree” before using a website or purchasing a
product or service, and there was evidence of such a manifestation of intent. (See,
e.g. Wiseley v. Amazon .com, Inc. (9th Cir. 2017) 709
Fed.Appx. 862, 863-864, in which plaintiff conceded that a Conditions of Use
agreement created a valid contract between defendant and its customers, and
there was no dispute that plaintiff had clicked a corresponding action button
to the hyperlinked Conditions of Use; Fteja v. Facebook, Inc. (USDC
S.D.N.Y 2012) 841 F.Supp.2d 829, 834, in which plaintiff’s complaint conceded
plaintiff was “an active user of facebook.com,” and there was a declaration of
defendant’s employee stating “a putative Facebook user cannot become an actual
Facebook user unless and until they have clicked through the registration page
where they acknowledge they have read and agreed to Facebook’s terms of use….”).  These cases contrast with the showing offered
in this case, where the “click and proceed” evidence is weak or non-existent.  The cited case Foster v. Walmart, Inc.
(8th Cir. 2021) 15 F4th 860, 863 addressed clickwrap agreements only
in dicta.   
  
            Plaintiff also argues that the
statutory warranty claims being asserted by plaintiff here are not subject to
the arbitration agreement, as, although the language includes reference to
disputes concerning “vehicle” and “warranty,” the provision also limits itself
to disputes arising out of the Connected Services Agreement itself.  Plaintiff relies on the introductory clause
stating, in capital letters, as set forth above, “IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT THAT
THE APPROPRIATE CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO RESOLVE YOUR CONCERNS,
WE EACH AGREE TO RESOLVE THOSE DISPUTES THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION OR SMALL
CLAIMS COURT…” 
 
            Plaintiff argues that “those
disputes” mentioned, the inability of a customer service department to resolve
plaintiff’s concerns, is not the subject of plaintiff’s warranty claims under
statute.  Plaintiff also relies on a provision
elsewhere in the Connected Services Agreement which distinguishes between the
Connected Services which are covered by Connected Services Agreement and the warranty,
stating, “YOUR VEHICLE’S LIMITED WARRANTY does not cover the Connected
Services…”  [Rao Decl., Ex. 2, section
11].  Plaintiff argues that these
types of specification of claims covered and not covered would be surplusage if
the arbitration agreement was intended to apply to anything more than disputes
arising under the Connected Services Agreement in which the arbitration
agreement is set forth.   This argument also
calls into question whether an agreement to arbitrate the specific disputes in
this lawsuit exists.  
 
            The court, under the circumstances
and showing presented, cannot find that there is an enforceable agreement
between the parties to arbitrate the claims presented by this action.  The motion accordingly denied. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Documents 
Plaintiff brings a motion to compel
defendant to serve further responses to requests for production of documents. 
 
This matter is subject to the Standing Order Re Discovery (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order)
applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los
Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale
Courthouse, Department D.   An Order was
originally signed by the court on January 24, 2023, and revised and again
signed on January 11, 2024. 
 
Pursuant to the current version of
the Order, “any formal discovery propounded and currently pending or
outstanding by a party in this matter prior to the date of this CMC Order is
stayed pending further order of the Court.”  [Order section (1)(a)].  The court notes that the opposition indicates
that the motion is moot, as defendant will supplement its responses, but
defendant has evidently not yet done so, so the motion has not been rendered
moot. 
 
The Order sets forth the following
provision concerning discovery in Song-Beverly matters which appear to address
the discovery disputes raised by the current motion and opposition.   
 
            With
respect to Requests for Production of Documents, the Order provides:
“Production of Documents:  Within 60 days of service of this Order both plaintiff and defendant
shall provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective
possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side(s):
a.      
Purchase
or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated
documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket equipment installed at the dealership,
ELWs or service contracts, and any other writings signed by the plaintiff at
the point of sale.
b.     
Work
orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting and warranty
versions) for any maintenance, service and repair activity concerning the
subject vehicles.
c.      
Rental
car or loaner agreements regarding alternative transportation provided during
service or repair visits concerning the subject vehicle.
d.     
Records
of communications with dealer personnel, and/or factory representatives and
defendant’s call center or customer assistance personnel concerning the subject
vehicle.
e.      
Warrant
claims submitted to and/or approved by defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
f.       
Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures
published by Defendant from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or
leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.
g.     
Defendant’s
written statements of policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer
requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims,
including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the
date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was
filed.
h.     
A list of
or compilation of customer complaints in defendant’s electronically stored
information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects
claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same year,
make and model of the subject vehicle.  A
substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of reported
symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a
repair problem as the description listed in any work order or repair order for
the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled maintenance items.  The list provided by defendant may be in the
chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit,
dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’
reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names,
addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying
information.
i.       
Technical
Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicle purchased or leased in
California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
j.       
Copies of
any repair instruction, bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure
identified in any of the repair order/invoice records for the subject vehicle.
k.     
Receipts
or other written evidence supporting any incidental or consequential damages
claimed by plaintiff.
 
If a party believes any of this
information should be subject to a protective order, that party shall serve and
file a proposed protective order within 5 days of this Order and the parties
shall meet and confer as to agreeable language for the same.  The default will be the standard Protective
Order provided by the LASC in its website.
 
The information may be provided to the
opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the producing
party.
 
Plaintiff and defendant shall serve
verification with the documents they produce.
 
Any additional requests for documents
may only be propounded by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon
showing of good cause).
 
[Order section (2)(a)-(k)].
 
The parties are also directed to
the Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for
Department D, entitled Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly
Litigation) (Notice).  That Notice
provides:
 
“When the court is faced with a
discovery dispute in a Song-Beverly case, the court will usually order that the
plaintiff and defendant provide copies of the following documents, which are in
their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side: 
1. Defendant shall produce the
“Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to
its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the
period of [date of purchase] to present. 
 
2. Defendant shall produce any
internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff's
complaint in vehicles for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
This includes Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins. Defendant is not
required to do a search of emails. 
 
3. Defendant shall produce any
customer complaints relating to defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in
vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
4. Defendant shall produce all
documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests
for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the
period of [date of purchase] to present. 
 
5. Repair orders and invoices
concerning the subject vehicle.
 
6. Communications with dealer,
factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.
 
7. Warranty claims submitted to
and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle. 
 
8. Purchase and/or lease contract
concerning the subject vehicle. 
 
9. Repair orders and invoices
concerning the subject vehicle. 
 
10. Any documents supporting
plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential damages.”
 
            The parties
are ordered to engage in good faith meet and confer concerning the outstanding
discovery in light of the Order and Notice, and, if necessary, reschedule the
motion and file new papers and an updated Code-compliant separate statement
reflecting the then current status of the discovery dispute, including in that
separate statement as to each request and response any applicable language of
the Order and/or Notice. 
 
            The
court notes with respect to this particular dispute that the Court expects Code
compliant responses, and unnecessary objections will be overruled.  For example, if appropriate statements of
compliance or inability to comply are served which fully comply with CCP
sections 2031.220 and 2031.230, there would be no need to object to a Request
for Production of Documents on the ground it is overly broad by seeking
documents kept by entities or third parties beyond the responding party’s
possession, custody, or control.   
 
Specifically, with respect to a
statement of compliance, CCP section 2031.220 requires:
“A statement that a party to whom
an inspection demand has been directed will comply with the particular demand
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production.”
 
With respect to a statement of
inability to comply, CCP section 2031.230 requires:
“A representation of inability to
comply with the particular demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent
search and a reasonably inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.   This statement shall also
specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party.   The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.”
 
The court
also does not find appropriate a response that discovery should be stayed
pending the determination of a motion to compel arbitration, when the code
section relied upon, CCP section 1281.4, requires that a party seeking such a
stay make a motion to stay the action until an application for an order to
arbitrate is determined (providing for a stay order “upon motion of a party” to
an action in which a application to arbitrate is “pending,” and “such
application is undetermined.”).   It is
recognized that pursuant to this statutory language, such an action “will not
be stayed automatically,” but a motion must be made to stay.  Brock v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1790, 1796. 

 
In
any case, the discovery motion has been continued to the same date as the
hearing on the motion to compel arbitration, which motion is denied.  This result renders any such objection
improper, and the argument in the opposition that the motion is premature is
also no longer applicable. 
 

To the extent defendant asserts
objections based on attorney-client and work product privileges, any further
objections that responsive documents are being withheld based on
attorney-client or work product privilege must be specifically asserted and
accompanied by an appropriate privilege log. 
See CCP §2031.240 (b) and (c) (objection shall “[i]dentify with
particularity any document…or electronically stored information falling within
any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made,” and
“[s]et forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection,”
and, if based on privilege or work product, “shall provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,
if necessary, a privilege log.”); see also Catalina Island Yacht Club v
Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130 (“In general, … a privilege log typically should provide the identity
and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged
document, the document's date, a brief description of the document and its
contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether the privilege
applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.”)
 
Finally, it does not appear from
the file that the parties have yet entered into a protective order.  The court notes that if either party requires
a protective order, the procedures are addressed in the Order, at section 2, subdivision
(k), above.   The entry of such a
protective order should make it unnecessary for the parties to assert any
objections that the discovery seeks confidential, proprietary or trade secret
information.  
                        
RULING:  
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration
is DENIED. 
 
The Court on the
showing presented cannot find that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists.  
 
UNOPPOSED Request
for Judicial Notice in Support of Defendant’s Motion to Compel Binding
Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE/STAYED pursuant to this
Standing Order Re Discovery (Song-Beverly Litigation), signed and entered by
the Court on January 24, 2023 as revised, signed and entered on January 11,
2024. 
 
The parties are
ordered to meet and confer in good faith concerning compliance with the Order,
taking into consideration this Court’s Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law
Cases for Department D, Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly
Litigation), and to serve any further discovery, and engage in any further
discovery proceedings or motions in compliance with the Order and Notice, as
well as with this minute order. 
 
Any further
objections that responsive documents are being withheld based on
attorney-client or work product privilege must be fully Code-compliant and
accompanied by a privilege log. 
 
If a party believes any of the information requested
should be subject to a protective order, that party shall serve and file a
proposed protective order within 5 days of this Order and the parties shall
meet and confer as to agreeable language for the same.  The default is the standard Protective Order
provided by the LASC in its website.
 
Monetary sanctions are DENIED. 
 

 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make
arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org
to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers
free audio and video appearances. 
However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is
set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the
Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 
 
 