 Case Number:  23STCV14999    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Default Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b)
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff Meera Paul
Resp. Party:    Defendant Gurmit Paul
 
 
The Motion for Relief from Dismissal is GRANTED. The dismissal entered
against Plaintiff’s Complaint is VACATED. Plaintiff is GRANTED 10 days leave to
file her amended pleading. 
 
Defense Counsel may file a motion for reasonable fees and costs. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On June 27,
2023, Plaintiff Meera Paul filed her Complaint for Declaratory Relief. 
 
On September
14, 2023, Defendant Gurmit Paul filed his Demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff did
not oppose the Demurrer. 
 
On October 5,
2023, Defendant Gurmit Paul filed his Reply in support of his Demurrer, noting
that Plaintiff did not oppose the Demurrer. 
 
On October
12, 2023, the Court held a hearing on the Demurrer. There was no appearance by
or for Plaintiff at the hearing, nor any communication with the Court as to why
there was no appearance by or for Plaintiff at the hearing. The Court sustained
the Demurrer without leave to amend the Complaint. The Court then ordered the
Complaint dismissed with prejudice. 
 
On April 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed her Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default Pursuant to Code
Civ. Proc. § 473(b) (“Motion for Relief from Dismissal”). Plaintiff
concurrently filed her Proposed Order. 
 
On April 25,
2024, Defendant Gurmit Paul filed his Opposition to the Motion for Relief from
Dismissal.
 
On May 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed her Reply in support of her Motion for Relief from
Dismissal. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of
merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this
section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to
trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff moves the Court for relief from
dismissal on the basis of attorney mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect
pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). (Motion for
Relief from Dismissal, pp. 1:25–2:1.)
 
Plaintiff argues that this is appropriate
because: (1) Plaintiff’s Counsel includes an affidavit of fault in the moving
papers; (2) a declaration under penalty of perjury satisfies the affidavit
requirement; and (3) the motion is timely. (Motion for Relief from Dismissal,
pp. 3:25–26, 5:1–2, 5:5.)
 
Defendant Gurmit Paul disagrees, arguing: (1)
that the motion does not show that any fault of counsel caused the dismissal in
fact; (2) that the Court should look skeptically at the declaration of
Plaintiff’s Counsel; and (3) that Plaintiff’s Counsel must pay legal fees and
costs if his declaration prevails. (Opposition, pp. 4:21–22, 6:20, 7:19.)
 
In her Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that
relief from default is mandatory; and (2) that no proposed amended complaint is
necessary. (Reply, p. 3:4, 3:16.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
On October 12, 2023, the Court: (1) held a
hearing on the Demurrer to the Complaint; (2) sustained the Demurrer, without
leave to amend the Complaint; and (3) dismissed with prejudice Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel did not oppose the
Demurrer. Neither Plaintiff nor Plaintiff’s Counsel appeared at the hearing on
the Demurrer. Plaintiff’s Counsel did not contact the Court to explain why no
one appeared for Plaintiff at the hearing on the Demurrer. This Motion for Relief
from Dismissal was filed just one day before the deadline.  The declarations submitted by Plaintiff’s
Counsel (with the Motion for Relief from Dismissal and the Reply) do not
provide any explanation as to why Plaintiff’s Counsel did not oppose the Demurrer,
appear at the hearing, or promptly notify the Court of Counsel’s inability to
appear at the hearing.
 
The Motion and Rudd’s declarations also raise
numerous concerns for the Court.  First, paragraphs
2 and 3 of Rudd’s Declaration are irrelevant to the issue before the Court; they
are simply his own paean of praise to what he views as his stellar law career.  Second, paragraphs 5-7 of Rudd’s Declaration
are also irrelevant; they simply lay out his disagreement with the family law
court that decided that he was to pay child support and tell the Court how much
he loves his sons. Third, whatever problems Rudd had with payment of his child
support obligations, he was still a practicing attorney at the time he failed
to oppose the demurrer or appear at the hearing on the demurrer.  The demurrer was heard on October 12, 2023;
Rudd was suspended twice for failing to pay child support – once from November
17, 2022 through January 10, 2023 and again from February 3, 2024 through May
2, 2024.  However, neither suspension
overlapped with this demurrer.  Fourth, the
attorney who filed the Motion is listed as a member of the Rudd Law Firm, so it
is not clear why Rudd “could not engage Mr. Keleti” earlier.  (Cf. Rudd Declaration, ¶ 8 with Caption to
Motion, p. 1.) Fifth, Rudd either did not write or did not proof-read his Reply
Declaration; there are numerous instances where the declaration switches
between the first person (as if Rudd prepared the Declaration himself) and the
third person (as if an attorney prepared the Declaration for Rudd).  Sixth, although not objected to by Defendant,
most of paragraph 3 of Rudd’s Reply Declaration is inadmissible hearsay. 
 
It is obvious to the Court that Plaintiff’s
Counsel has engaged in inexcusable neglect.  Discretionary relief is inappropriate here. 
 
Yet the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s Counsel
that mandatory relief must issue and that it does not matter for the purposes
of mandatory relief why Plaintiff’s Counsel acted neglectfully.
 
“More specifically, section
473, subdivision (b)'s mandatory relief provision has three purposes: (1) to
relieve the innocent client of the consequences of the attorney's fault; (2) to
place the burden on counsel; and (3) to discourage additional litigation in the
form of malpractice actions by the defaulted client against the errant
attorney. 
 
“These
purposes are advanced as long as mandatory relief is confined to situations in
which the attorney, rather than the client, is the cause of the default,
default judgment, or dismissal. In other words, the purpose of
the mandatory relief provision under section
473, subdivision (b) is
achieved by focusing on who is
to blame, not why.
Indeed, in many cases, the reasons for the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect will be irrelevant; that is because, as noted above, the
mandatory relief provision entitles a party to relief even when his or her
attorney's error is inexcusable.
We are reluctant to construe section
473, subdivision (b), to require in every case the production of information
that will in many cases be of no use in deciding whether to grant relief.”
 
(Martin Potts & Assocs., Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 432, 439–440, cleaned up.)
 
In short, the Court must vacate the
dismissal. 
 
As to the Demurrer, the Court would have
granted Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint had Plaintiff’s Counsel appeared
at the hearing on the Demurrer. The Court shall grant Plaintiff 10 days leave
to file her amended pleading. 
 
Finally, as a consequence of granting
mandatory relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b), the Court shall direct Plaintiff’s Counsel to pay Defense Counsel’s
reasonable fees and costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Defense Counsel
may file a motion for reasonable fees and costs. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Relief from Dismissal is GRANTED. The dismissal entered
against Plaintiff’s Complaint is VACATED. Plaintiff is GRANTED 10 days leave to
file her amended pleading. 
 
Defense Counsel may file a motion for reasonable fees and costs.