  Case Number:  22STCV39551    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Enforce Settlement
 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Willie L. Fair and Julie Fair
Resp. Party:    Defendants BMW of North America, LLC and BMW
of Monrovia
 
 
The Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED in part. Judgment shall be
entered to conform with the Parties’ written settlement, with dates amended to
reflect that Defendants shall accept surrender of the subject vehicle within
seven (7) days from the issuance of this Order. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENT:
 
Although Defendant’s Opposition was filed late, the Court will still
consider it. 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On December
21, 2022, Plaintiffs Willie L. Fair and Julie Fair filed their Complaint against
Defendants BMW of North America, LLC and Sai Monrovia B, Inc. (d.b.a. BMW of
Monrovia) on causes of action arising from the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
 
On March 18,
2024, by request of Plaintiffs, the Court dismissed with prejudice the Complaint.
The Court retained jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all terms of
settlement, including judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
664.6. 
 
On April 11,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Motion to Enforce Settlement. In support of their
Motion to Enforce Settlement, Plaintiffs concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Amy R. Rotman; (2) Proposed Order; and (3) Proof of Service. 
 
On April 29,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Notice of Non-Opposition. Plaintiffs concurrently
filed their Proof of Service. 
 
On May 6,
2024, Defendants filed their Opposition to the Motion to Enforce Settlement. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).)
 
“Section 664.6 was enacted to provide a
summary procedure for specifically enforcing a settlement contract without the
need for a new lawsuit.” (Weddington Prod., Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 793, 809.) In deciding motions made under Section 664.6, judges
“must determine whether the parties entered into a valid and binding
settlement.” (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Signed Section 998 Offer
 
Plaintiffs submit to the Court a signed document titled “Plaintiffs’
Amended Statutory Offer to Compromise Pursuant to C.C.P. Section 998” (“Signed
Section 998 Offer”). (Decl. Rotman, Exh. 1.)
 
The document is signed by Plaintiffs’ Counsel and Defense Counsel. The
Parties do not dispute the authenticity of the Signed Section 998 Offer. 
 
 The following are the pertinent
sections of the Signed Section 998 Offer.
 
“1. Plaintiffs shall recover from Defendants and Judgment is to be entered
in the amount of $85,000.00 (Eighty-Five Thousand Dollars and zero cents)
(Settlement Funds). This amount includes the loan payoff owed, if any, by
Plaintiffs for the 2018 BMW 740i, VIN WBA7E2C52JB214901, that is the subject of
this action (‘Subject Vehicle’).
 
“2. Plaintiffs will surrender the Subject Vehicle to Defendant BMW NA at
BMW of Monrovia or an alternative mutually agreed-upon location on a mutually
agreeable date. The surrender shall occur no later than 60 days after
Defendants’ counsel has executed this Statutory Offer unless circumstances
caused by Plaintiffs result in delay. BMW NA shall send payment of Settlement
Funds via overnight mail to Plaintiffs’ counsel Wirtz Law APC to arrive
within three (3) business days of the surrender of the subject vehicle, less
the loan payoff amount, if any, which will be simultaneously sent directly to
the lienholder.
 
“3. In addition, BMW NA shall pay attorney fees, costs, and expenses actually
and reasonably incurred in the commencement and prosecution of this action,
including post-offer acceptance attorney fees, costs, and expenses incurred in
performing on the settlement and/or completing the case, pursuant to Civil Code
section 1794(d), which may be resolved by agreement of the parties or, if the
parties cannot agree, upon properly noticed motion to the Court. If a motion is
needed, Plaintiffs shall be deemed the prevailing party in this action under
section 1794(d). Defendants shall not object to the timing of filing the motion
for attorney fees at the same time as the filing of a memorandum of cost in one
consolidated motion rather than by filing a separate cost memorandum.
Defendants waive the deadline, if any, for filing of Plaintiffs’ memorandum(a)
of costs and motion for attorney’s fees. 
 
“4. If Defendants do not timely perform the obligations set forth above,
Plaintiffs shall be entitled to interest at the rate of 10% per annum, from the
date of acceptance of this offer until the date the Settlement Funds are
received by Plaintiffs’ attorneys. Nothing in this offer prohibits Plaintiffs
from seeking recovery of enforcement fees, costs, expenses, or related amounts
from Defendants, or pursuing alternative enforcement procedures or remedies, in
the event that Defendants do not timely perform.
 
“5. Upon receipt of all payments, including the Settlement Funds,
attorney’s fees, costs, and expenses, and interest (if any), Plaintiffs shall
dismiss this entire action with prejudice.
 
“6. Except as otherwise provided herein, each
party shall bear its own attorney fees and costs. Defendants expressly waive
any costs or fees in this case.
 
“7. The parties stipulate that the Court may
retain jurisdiction over the action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
664.6 until all terms contained herein are performed, and all amounts owed to
Plaintiffs and counsel are received. Upon acceptance, this Offer shall
constitute a writing signed by both parties via their counsel in accordance
with Section 664.6, subd. (b).”
 
B. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiffs move the Court to: 
 
(1)      
enter
judgment on the Parties’ settlement agreement pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6 and/or Civil Code section 1440; 
 
(2)      
order
Defendant BMW of North America to accept surrender of the subject vehicle
within three days after the hearing on the Motion to Enforce Settlement; 
 
(3)      
order
Defendant BMW of North America to pay settlement funds within three days of
surrender of the subject vehicle; and 
 
(4)      
order in
the alternative that if Defendant BMW of North America does not accept
surrender of the vehicle within three days after the hearing on the Motion to
Enforce Settlement, then Defendant BMW of North America must pay the full
$85,000.00 in settlement funds to Plaintiffs’ Counsel within seven days of the
hearing, without surrender of the subject vehicle.
 
(Motion to Enforce
Settlement, p. 3:14–22.)
 
Defendants request that the Motion to Enforce Settlement be denied,
arguing: (1) that delay in proceeding with the surrender of the subject vehicle
within sixty days of execution of the Signed Section 998 Offer was outside of
Defendants’ control; and (2) failure to timely oppose this motion was due to
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Opposition, pp. 3:22–23,
4:10–11.) Defendants also argue that the motion is moot because Defendant BMW
of North America “has processed the settlement and its third-party surrendering
agent is set to schedule the surrender of the Subject Vehicle in order to
complete this settlement.” (Id. at p. 2:16–19.)
 
C. 
    Discussion
 
The Parties do not dispute the fact that there is a valid and binding
settlement. 
 
Further, it appears that the main goals of the settlement — the
surrender of a vehicle and the subsequent payment of both the settlement and
the attorney’s fees — have not yet occurred. Thus, contrary to Defendants’
argument, the Motion to Enforce Settlement is not moot. 
 
        The Parties have not presented the Court
with a reason why judgment should not be entered to conform with the written
settlement.
 
The Court shall enter judgment that will confirm with the written
settlement. 
 
The judgment shall not include the “in the alternative” remedy
requested by Plaintiffs. The Signed Section 998 Offer allows for the accrual of
interest in case of Defendants’ breach of their obligation to timely perform,
not a requirement that Defendants must pay the settlement amount prior to
surrender of the vehicle. The Court will not enter judgment that does not
conform with the written settlement. 
 
At this time, the Court has not been presented with sufficient evidence
to determine that Defendants were untimely in meeting their obligations.
Rather, it appears that Defendants required certain paperwork in order to
process the surrender, and Defendants received that paperwork six days before
the deadline to perform. Given that approximately sixty more days has passed, there
need be no further delay. 
 
The Court will grant Defendants seven (7) days from the issuance of
this Order to accept surrender of the vehicle before they are considered
untimely in their obligations. 
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED in part. Judgment shall be
entered to conform with the Parties’ written settlement, with dates amended to
reflect that Defendants shall accept surrender of the subject vehicle within
seven (7) days from the issuance of this Order. 
 
 