 Case Number:  22NWCV02219    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  C SINDY PAOLA RODRIGUEZ DUARTE
vs KYLE HARDY SHEPHERD, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV02219
Hearing Date: October 22, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#1 
Tentative Ruling 
     I.       
Attorneys Michael Larin, Andrew Higgs, and
the law firm of Lynberg & Watkins’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
Airport Van Rental, Inc. is MOOT.
   
II.       
Attorneys Michael Larin, Andrew Higgs, and
the law firm of Lynberg & Watkins’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
Kyle Hardy Shepherd is GRANTED.  
Counsel to give notice. 
 
This is a personal injury action arising from an automobile
accident.  Attorneys Michael Larin,
Andrew Higgs, and the law firm of Lynberg & Watkins move to be relieved as counsel
for Defendants Kyle Hardy Shepherd and Airport Van Rental, Inc.
Defendant Airport Van Rental, Inc.
On October 11, 2024, a Substitution of Attorney was filed
on behalf of Defendant Airport Van Rental, Inc. 
Thus, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Airport Van
Rental, Inc. is MOOT.  
Defendant Kyle Hardy Shepherd
Good cause
exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support
of an attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (2): (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).) 
 
The motion is unopposed
as of October 18, 2024.
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship and breach of the attorney-client
fee agreement.  Proof of service of the
motion upon Defendant was filed on August 29, 2024.  
Accordingly, the motion
to be relieved as counsel for Kyle Hardy Shepherd is GRANTED.
 
 