 Case Number:  SC127147    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 30, 2023




CASE NUMBER


SC127147




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant True Line Railing




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Western National Builders (“Western National”) brought a
cross-action, naming Cross-Defendant True Line Railing as Roe 6, seeking
indemnity, in part, in connection with the underlying lawsuit regarding a
construction project in Marina Del Rey.  Western
National has since dismissed its cross-claims against Cross-Defendant True Line
Railing.  True Line Railing remains in
the action as a cross-defendant in connection with other cross-complaints.
 
True Line Railing now seeks to file its own cross-complaint against
Western National, for breach of contract to recoup retention payments totaling
$179,000 it alleges were wrongly withheld in connection with the project.
 
No party has opposed the Motion, and in fact all parties have
subsequently filed a stipulation on October 23, evidencing their intent to permit
True Line Railing to file its cross-complaint.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint
may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)
 
Because the provision permitting leave is to be construed liberally to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action, and in light of the fact that the parties
have all stipulated to permit True Line Railing to file the proposed
cross-complaint, the Court grants True Line Railing’s request.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, the Court grants True Line Railing’s motion for leave to
file the proposed cross-complaint in this action.  True Line Railing shall file and serve the
proposed cross-complaint on or before November 13, 2023.  
 
True Line Railing shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  October 30, 2023                          ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court