  Case Number:  22SMCV01275    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 30, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01275




MOTIONS


Motions to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTIES


Ellyn S. Garofalo and Amir Kaltgrad 




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Ellyn S. Garofalo and Amir Kaltgrad of
Carlton Fields, LLP, counsel for Defendants Palisades Development Company, Inc.
and Patrick McKenna (“Counsel”) move to be relieved as counsel.  No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1) the client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a
position in litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the
purpose of harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2) the representation will result in violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct or the State Bar Act;
 
(3) the lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably
difficult to carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4) the client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1) the client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation,
or asserting a position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is
not warranted under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument
for an extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2) the client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of
conduct or has used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that
the lawyer reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3) the client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that
is criminal or fraudulent;
 
(4) the client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for
the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5) the client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or
obligation, to the lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has
given the client a reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will
withdraw unless the client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6) the client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the
representation;
 
(7) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best
interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8) the lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for
the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9) a continuation of the representation is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)          the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding pending
before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause
for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel have filed forms MC-051,
MC-052 and MC-053 and proofs of service as to each defendant.  The attorney declarations (MC-052) indicate
that the motions were filed instead of filing consents because of “a breakdown
in the attorney-client relationship.”  
 
Rule 1.16(b)(4) permits withdrawal where “the client by other conduct
renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the
representation effectively[.]”  As such,
the Court finds the motions are substantively proper.
 
The proofs of service indicate that the client was served by mail, and
the other parties were served both electronically and by mail, in compliance
with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d) [“The notice may be by
personal service, electronic service, or mail.”]  Paragraph 3(b) of the attorney declaration
(MC-052) confirms that the client was served by mail at the last known address,
as confirmed by telephone within the past 30 days, in conformance with
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd.(d)(1)(A).  Therefore, the Court determines that the
motions are procedurally proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants the Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel.  
 
Counsel must serve the signed orders (forms MC-053), which shall
include information about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any
party, or ordered by the Court, on both Defendants Palisades Development
Company, Inc. and Patrick McKenna and all other parties who have appeared in
the action, within 10 days of the date of this Order, and file proofs of
service of such.  Counsel will remain the
attorneys of record for Defendants Palisades Development Company, Inc. and
Patrick McKenna until Counsel files the requisite proofs of service.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  
            
 
 
DATED:  October 30, 2023                            ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 