  Case Number:  22STCV40378    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendants
City of Fontana and Andrew Larson’s Motion to Stay Discovery is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
Xinwu Cheng’s Motions to Compel Responses and Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories from Defendant City of Fontana are GRANTED as to interrogatories
No. 15.1 and 17.1, as they pertain to Affirmative Defenses No. 7, 8, 11, 13,
14, and 18–10, and Requests for Admission No. 21–22. The motion is DENIED as to
the same interrogatories, as they pertain to Affirmative Defense No. 15 and
Request for Admission No. 20. The motion to compel is DENIED as moot. Sanctions
are DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
Xinwu Cheng’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Statements of Compliance from
Defendant City of Fontana is GRANTED as to Requests No. 7 and 8, and otherwise
DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.
 
I.     
MOTION TO
STAY DISCOVERY
“[O]n motion and for good cause shown, the court may
establish the sequence and timing of discovery for the convenience of parties
and witnesses and in the interests of justice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.020,
subd. (b).) 
Defendants City of Fontana and
Andrew Larson (Defendants) seek an order staying discovery in this action in
order to preserve materials privileged by the “official information” doctrine,
pending resolution of an ongoing criminal investigation involving Plaintiff
Xinwu Cheng (Plaintiff). That privilege is enacted in Evidence Code § 1040,
which defines “official information” as “information acquired in
confidence by a public employee in the course of his or her duty and not open,
or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the time the claim of privilege
is made,” and which grants public entities “a privilege to refuse to disclose
official information, and to prevent another from disclosing official
information.” (Eid. Code § 1040, subd. (a), (b).) However, to claim the
privilege effectively, its disclosure must either be forbidden by state or
federal statute, or the following must apply:
 
Disclosure
of the information is against the public interest because there is a necessity
for preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the
necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice; but no privilege may be
claimed under this paragraph if any person authorized to do so has consented
that the information be disclosed in the proceeding. In determining whether
disclosure of the information is against the public interest, the interest of
the public entity as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be
considered.
 
(Evid. Code § 1040, subd. (b)(2).)
 
Defendants present the case County of Orange v. Superior
Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 759. In that case, two plaintiff
parents were publicly identified as suspects of a police investigation into the
homicide of their child. (County of Orange, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th
at p. 762.) The plaintiffs filed suit against the sheriff’s department for
defamation, conversion, and civil rights complaints. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs
served discovery, seeking 25 categories of documents that the court summarized
as effectively requesting “the sheriff’s entire investigative file” relating to
their child’s murder. (Id. at p. 762.) When the sheriff’s department
objected, citing Evidence Code § 1040, the plaintiffs moved to compel, and the
trial court granted the motion, subject to a protective order, after conducting
an in-camera review of the file. (Id. at pp. 762–763.) When the county
sought writ review, the appellate court reversed the order, holding, “we conclude that the
contents of police investigative files sought in civil discovery must remain
confidential so long as the need for confidentiality outweighs the benefits of
disclosure in any particular case.” (Id. at p. 765.) 
 
The
court found “compelling” the county’s interest in “solving homicides and
bringing killers to justice,” and reasoned that to disclose investigative
information to suspects through civil litigation “will enable
them to invent stories, explain away evidence thus far gathered, and intimidate
or otherwise influence potential witnesses.” (Id. at p. 766.) The court
rejected the plaintiffs’ argument that the murder investigation had effectively
stalled and was no longer ongoing, reasoning that “there is no limitations
period for murder,” and that a four-year investigative period for such a crime
was “common enough.” (Id. at p. 767. ) The court concluded that the
interests of the county
in solving the murder outweighed the plaintiffs’ interest in obtaining the
discovery sought, “at least at the time this matter was considered below,” i.e.
“less than a year after the civil action was filed.” (Id. at p. 767.)
The court stated that the documents sought need not be privileged forever, and
that “[t]he appropriate remedy in this case is for the trial court to stay
discovery of investigative information in the civil action in order to allow
the sheriff’s department the necessary time to investigate.” (Id. at p.
769.) If the court later found that “the trail has grown cold and there is no
reasonable probability the case will be solved, “ the court could determine
that there no longer remained enough interest in “protecting the investigative file
any longer,” meaning the plaintiffs could be granted “limited access to
that information.” (Id. at p. 768, italics in original.)
 
Here,
Defendants present the declaration of Mario Martinez, a Fontana police officer
assigned as a task force officer to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)
Southwest Borders Task Force. (Martinez Decl. ¶ 1.) He states that the DEA is
conducting an ongoing criminal investigation into narcotics trafficking in Los
Angeles County, and that “[t]he investigation involves Mr. Cheng as well as
other individuals.” (Martinez Decl. ¶ 2.) Although Plaintiff has not been
criminally charged, Martinez anticipates that “[a] decision on whether to
recommend charges should take place by the end of this year or beginning of
next year.” (Martinez Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff
in opposition argues that Defendants’ motion is vague as to the scope of relief
they are seeking, whether a stay of documentary discovery or of all discovery
in this action. (Motion at p. 2.) Plaintiff argues that Martinez lacks personal
knowledge of any charging decision to be made in the investigation at issue,
since charging decisions are not made by officers. (Opposition at pp. 2–3.)
Plaintiff further argues that Defendant’s motion does not identify any
documents sought that would jeopardize the ongoing criminal investigation, or
to which the privilege applies. (Opposition at pp. 4–5.) 
 
Defendants
have not made the showing that is needed for the stay of discovery that they
seek here. As plaintiff argues, Defendants have not identified the subject
discovery which they contend offends the privilege, and they have not
articulated why a stay of all discovery in this matter is appropriate,
as opposed to a more targeted form of relief. 
 
More
importantly, the case authority they rely upon concerned suspects in an ongoing
murder investigation seeking all the documents related to that investigation. But
here, Plaintiff does not seek all documents related to the narcotics
investigation identified by Officer Martinez, but only to those documents
related to his August 2022 arrest, which as yet has resulted in no charges
against him. Indeed, although Officer Martinez testifies that the ongoing
investigation involves Plaintiff, he does not indicate that the August 2022
arrest, or any documents relied upon or resulting from it, concern the
ongoing investigation, or vice versa. Defendants have given this court no basis
to conclude that any discovery sought implicates an ongoing investigation, and
thus no basis to conclude that a stay is proper.
 
The
motion to stay is therefore DENIED.
 
II.            
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE
“If
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280
thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in
accordance with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel the compliance of Defendant City of Fontana with its statements
of compliance issued in response to Requests for Production No. 1–3, 5–8,
11–14, 17 and 18. Defendant responded to these requests with various
objections, sometimes with objections based on unspecified “privilege,” but offered
in each instance to “produce all nonprivileged documents.” (Motion Exh. D.)
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is defective, for its primary objective is the overruling of objections
based on privilege pursuant to which Defendant qualified its responses, not the
enforcement of bona fide statements of compliance. Plaintiff’s motion is based
on the contention that Defendants failed to comply with their obligations with
respect to withholding documents pursuant to an objection under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.240, as they never identified the particular privilege
applicable to any documents, nor the documents covered by the privilege. Although
Plaintiff acknowledges that Defendant produced a privilege log identifying
specific records subject to specific privileges on June 12, 2023, near a month
after the initial responses were produced, Plaintiff further argues that any
objections were waived by the failure to assert them in proper form in the initial
responses. (Motion at pp. 4–5.) 
 
The
record thus reflects no agreement to produce documents or statements of
compliance for the bulk of the material sought here. Plaintiff’s motion is in
reality a defective motion to compel further responses to the requests at issue
under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310 (which is never cited in the motion)
and served without a separate statement identifying the different documents and
responses at issue. (CRC Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff
identifies only two categories, Requests No. 7 and 8, which they contend are
outside the ambit of Defendant’s privilege log and therefore subject to a
statement of compliance. Indeed, the privilege log produced by Defendant on
June 12, 2023, identifies the requests to which it applies, and does not
identify Requests No. 7 and 8, which respectively sought all documents shown to
Plaintiff during his arrest, and all documents evidencing that Plaintiff was
apprised of his Miranda rights on the date in question. (Motion Exhs. C,
L.) Despite not being mentioned in Defendant’s privilege log, the responsive
documents were not provided in Defendant’s production. (Emmitt Decl. ¶ 13, Exh.
G.) Accordingly, a motion to compel compliance is properly brought only as to
these requests.
 
The
motion to compel compliance is GRANTED as to Requests No. 7 and 8, and is
otherwise DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.
 
III. MOTIONS TO COMPEL & COMPEL FURTHER
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to
the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010(a).) If a
propounding party is not satisfied with the response served by a responding
party, the former may move the court to compel further interrogatory
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300;
Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  The propounding party must demonstrate that the
responses were incomplete, inadequate or evasive, or that the responding party
asserted objections that are either without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a)(1)–(3); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 403.)
Additionally, a propounding party may demand
a responding party to produce documents that are in their possession, custody
or control. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010.) A party may likewise conduct
discovery by propounding interrogatories to another party to be answered under
oath. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) The responding party must
respond to the production demand either by complying, by representing that the
party lacks the ability to comply, or by objecting to the demand. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.210.) The responding party must respond to the interrogatories by
answering or objecting. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) If the
responding party fails to serve timely responses, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling responses to the production demand and
interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses to Form
Interrogatory No. 15.1, which sought facts and evidence concerning Defendant’s
affirmative defenses, but for which Defendant provided no response as to its
affirmative defenses numbered 2–6, 9–10, 12, 16, and 21–26 in its answer. (Le
Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. C.) Defendant in opposition contends that it hereby withdraws
those defenses, rendering the motion moot. (Opposition at p. 1.) Plaintiff in
reply seeks an award of sanctions for the expense of bringing the motion.
(Reply at pp. 2–3.)
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses also concern Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, but directed toward
different defenses. Plaintiff identifies Defendant’s responses as to
affirmative defenses No. 7, 8, 11, 13–15, and 18–20, which Plaintiff contends
are factually bereft, and do not identify individuals with pertinent knowledge.
(Separate Statement.) Plaintiff further identifies Defendant’s response to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1, which sought facts and evidence supporting the denial
of requests for admission, specifically as it addressed Requests No. 20–22,
again on the grounds that the responses are factually bereft. (Separate
Statement.)
 
Some of these responses are already compliant
and do not warrant further response. These include Form Interrogatory No. 15.1,
as it pertains to Affirmative Defense No. 15, and Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
as it pertains to Request for Admission No. 20. As to Affirmative Defense No.
15, Plaintiff sought facts supporting the defense of consent, to which
Defendant responded that “Plaintiff verbally consented to the search of his
vehicle and home.” (Separate Statement at p. 6.) Plaintiff identifies no defect
in this response. And with respect to Request for Admission No. 20, which
concerned Defendant’s compliance with policies regarding cash seizure,
Defendant responded by identifying the relevant policy and stating how it
complied. (Separate Statement at p. 9.) The only defect that Plaintiff
identifies is the failure to describe compliance with a different policy
relating to verbal consent to search. (Separate Statement at pp. 9–10.) Thus
the motion is DENIED as to Form Interrogatories No. 15.1 and 17.1 as they relate
to Affirmative Defense No. 15 and Request for Admission No. 20.
 
Further responses
are required, however, as to the remaining requests. A number of these
responses, though called upon to provide facts supporting particular positions,
provide no facts save a conclusory recitation of the defense itself. These
responses are for Interrogatory No. 15.1 as it relates to Affirmative Defenses
No. 7, 11, 13, 14, 18, 20, and Requests No. 21–22. When asked to state the
officers had a good faith belief in the propriety of their actions, Defendant
cites only a conclusory invocation of probable cause, without identifying any
supporting underlying facts. (Separate Statement at p. 3.) When asked to state
the basis for the defense that Defendant violated no law, Defendant responds by
stating that it “did not interfere with Plaintiff’s rights by threats,
intimidation or coercion sufficient to constitute a claim under the Bain Act.”
(Separate Statement at p. 5.) The same pattern repeats itself through the above
responses.
 
Further responses
are also necessary to Interrogatory No. 15.1 as to defenses No. 8, 14, and
18–20. When asked to identify witnesses with knowledge of the contentions,
Defendant stated, “There are numerous individuals working for the City with
this knowledge. Upon receipt of a person most qualified under C.C.P. §
2025.230, the City will produce a deponent with knowledge regarding this issue.”
This response was not useful or compliant with Defendant’s discovery
obligations. 
 
An
interrogatory response “shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.200, subd.
(a).) “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to
respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other
natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally
available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).)
If Defendant lacks information to support the defenses at issue, it could not
uphold its discovery obligations by stating that “discovery is ongoing” without
performing a diligent inquiry and providing a straightforward explanation of
the information available to it. 
The motion to compel further is therefore GRANTED as to
Interrogatories No. 15.1 and 17.1, as they pertain to Affirmative Defenses No.
7, 8, 11, 13, 14, and 18–10, and Requests for Admission No. 21–22. The motion
is DENIED as to the same interrogatories, as they pertain to Affirmative
Defense No. 15 and Request for Admission No. 20.
 
The motion to compel is DENIED as moot. 
 
IV. SANCTIONS
Statute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon
a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response
to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for
admission, absent substantial justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
Plaintiff seeks $4,155.00 in sanctions for the motion to
compel further, representing 11.7 hours of attorney work at $350 per hour, plus
a $60 filing fee. (Le Decl. ¶ 20.) Plaintiff also seeks $2,195.00, representing
6.1 hours of attorney work at $350 per hour and a $60 filing fee for the motion
to compel. (Le Decl. ¶ 15.)
 
Sanctions Denied. 
 
 
 