 Case Number:  23STCV22497    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  1525 COLORADO, LLC,Plaintiff, vs. MANIBEN COURP., et al.Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV22497 Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS FILED BY MANIBEN CORP, GIRISH PATEL, AND LILA PATELThe motion to quash service of summons filed by Defendants Maniben Corp., Girish Patel, and Lila Patel is DENIED.The Court notes that Defendant Lila Patel was dismissed from the case on November 21, 2023.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND   This is an action to quiet title, for an enforcement of easement, nuisance, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges that it is the owner of a property located at 1525 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90041. An easement exists on Defendants’ properties in favor of Plaintiff for ingress and egress. The only means vehicles can enter the rear area of Plaintiff’s development project is by using the easement. In August 2021, Defendants blocked off Plaintiff’s access to the easement and refused to allow Plaintiff to use it.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint against Defendants Maniben Corp., Girish R. Patel, Lila Patel, 1539 Colorado Co., LLC, Beatrice Krischner individually and as trustee of the David Kirshner and Beatrice Kirshner 1981 trust, and Jacqueline Ackerman.On November 9, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to quash service of summons.DISCUSSION Defendants Maniben Corp, Gish Patel, and Lila Patel (“Movants”) move to quash service of summons under Code Civ. Proc., section 418.10 on the grounds that service was defective. “A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10(a).) The motion must be filed on or before the last day on which the defendant must plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow. (Id.)“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at 1441-1442.) When a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of process.” (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)Code Civ. Proc. section 415.20 provides that “[i]f a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served . . . a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address . . . in the presence of a competent member of the household . . . at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail…to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., section 415.20(b).) Service of a summons in this matter is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing. (Id.)“Evidence Code section 647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)Plaintiff’s Proof of Service filed September 26, 2023 states that Maniben Corp. was served via substituted service at 1529 Colorado Boulevard Los Angeles, CA 90041 on September 20, 2023. The process server left the papers with a Jane Doe, 5’6”, 160lbs, in her 40s who was able to accept service and was apparently in charge. Proofs of service for Girish and Lila Patel reflect similar circumstances. Proofs of service for Lila Patel and Girish Patel state that on September 22, 2023, they were served at 1529 Colorado Boulevard via substituted service and the process sever left the papers with a Jane Doe there. Rohit Patel and Nita Patel, employees of Girish and Lila Patel, testify that on September 19, 2023 and September 22, 2023, a man approached the check-in window and asked for Girish and Lila Patel. The employees informed the man that they were not there and offered to call them. The man replied he did not have time and left he papers at the check-in window. (Rohit and Nita Patel Decls., ¶2.)Girish and Lila Patel also filed declarations. Plaintiff objected to both declarations. The objections with respect to hearsay are sustained. The remaining objections are overruled. Plaintiff’s process server, Robert Hall, testifies that he served the papers as described in Rohit and Nita Patel’s declarations. (Hall Decl., ¶¶2-3.) He explained that he had important legal documents. (Id., ¶2.) Both times he entered Movants’ premises, he interacted with a woman who would not give him her name. (Id., ¶4.) Because the Jane Doe he interacted with was sitting in the office booth of the motel, she was the person apparently in charge of the premises. (Id.) This was Hall’s third attempt to serve Girish Patel. (Id.)Movants argue that service was not proper because Plaintiff’s process server never informed their employees of the contents of the papers, Plaintiff did not attempt personal service, the process server never asked the persons served for their name, title, or capacity, the process server never asked the persons served whether they were authorized to accept service, and the process server never submitted a declaration of reasonable due diligence.Plaintiff argues that the motion is untimely because it was filed after Movants’ deadline to answer or file a responsive pleading. Additionally, multiple attempts to serve Maniben were not required. The process server did inform the Patels what they were being served with. There is no requirement that process servers include the names or titles of individuals given documents via substituted service. The person the process server left the papers with was the person apparently in charge of the premises.This motion is untimely. A motion to quash must be filed before the last day on which the defendant must plead, 30 days after service of the complaint, unless time is extended by stipulation or by a judge’s order for good cause. (Code Civ. Proc., section 418.10(a)(1). Here, Movants were served on September 20 and 22, 2023. Thus, the deadlines to file this motion passed on October 20 and 22, 2023. The parties did not agree to extend the deadline and there is no court order extending the deadline. Defendants’ counsel does not dispute that the motion is not timely. Defendants’ counsel argues that the parties were engaged in meet and confer negotiations until less than one day before the deadline to file this motion. However, Defendants could have filed this motion earlier or applied for an extension of time to file. Plaintiff’s motion to quash service of summons is denied as untimely.DATED: December 8, 2023 ____________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 