  Case Number:  21STCV17437    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
WHEELS INTERNATIONAL INC. DBA LENSO WHEELS’S
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND CROSSCOMPLAINT FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION is GRANTED, namely as Lenso has not purposefully availed
itself of California. 
 
(2)  
WHEELS INTERNATIONAL INC. DBA LENSO WHEELS.’S
NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT FOR LACK
OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION is GRANTED, namely as Lenso has not
purposefully availed itself of California. 
 
Background
 
This is a negligence case. Plaintiffs MELISSA MOORS (wife)
and KAYLEAH MOORS (daughter) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring forth the
instant action for the death of Julian Moore (“decedent”) who was struck when
the wheel of Defendant ALBERT BENJAMIN ESQUEDA’s vehicle detached and struck
decedent’s motorcycle. The accident happened in Pomona, California.[1]
 
On May 10, 2021, Plaintiffs filed suit. 
 
On June 8, 2022, EMS filed their Answer to Plaintiffs'
Complaint.
 
On September 28, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) against Defendants ALBERT BENJAMIN ESQUEDA (“Esqueda”);
ANGELINA ULLOA (“Ulloa”); ADRIANA SIORDIA JIMENEZ; MARIO SIORDIA JIMENEZ; IN
AND OUT TIRE, LLC a limited liability; EMS DISTRIBUTING LLC d/b/a ELEMENT
WHEELS COM (sued herein as DOE 1); EMS DISTRIBUTING, LLC, d/b/a ) ELEMENT
WHEELS, (sued herein as DOE 2); (“EMS”);[2]
and AFFORDABLE WHEEL REPAIR (sued) herein as DOE 3) for: 
 
1.    
Negligence
2.    
Negligence Per Se
3.    
Strict Liability
4.    
Product Liability
5.    
Survivor Action.
 
On February 10, 2023, default was entered against Axe Wheels
2/10/23 as to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On February 24, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Defendants ADRIANA
SIORDIA JIMENEZ and MARIO SIORDIA JIMENEZ (collectively as the “Jimenez
Defendants”) filed a motion for determination of good faith settlement, which
the court granted.[3]
 
On August 4, 2023, EMS filed a motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Axe Wheels and other defendants seeking equitable
indemnity, negligence, contribution, apportionment of fault and declaratory
relief regarding the duty to defend and duty to indemnify, which the court
granted on 8/20/23.[4]
 
On August 30, 2023, EMS filed its cross-complaint (CC)
against Axe Wheels, Esqueda, Ulloa, In and Out Tires, Flores, and Alberto Sr.
dba Affordable Wheel Repair for: 
 
1.    
Total Indemnity 
2.    
Equitable Indemnity
3.    
Negligence
4.    
Contribution 
5.    
Apportionment
6.    
Declaratory Relief
 
On September 19, 2023, Esqueda and Ulloa filed his answer to
EMS’ cross-complaint.
 
On September 19, 2023, Flores, Alberto Sr. dba Affordable
Wheel Repair filed their answer to the CC of “Mission Oaks National Bank.”
 
On February 9, 2024, Axe Wheels filed a motion to set
aside/vacate default. 
 
On February 16, 2024, Axe Wheels filed a Motion To Quash
Service Of Summons And Cross-complaint For Lack Of Personal Jurisdiction. 
 
On March 11, 2024, the court held oral argument on ‘Hearing
on Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment (CCP 473.5).’ The
court granted Axe’s motion to set aside the default because a non-statutorily
approved person was served with the summons and complaint. Quash Plaintiff's
Summons and Complaint for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction and dismissed Axe from
the action because there was no general jurisdiction (because Axe’s contacts
with California were not “so exceptional” to render it virtually “at home” in
California, Daimler AG. v. Bauman, 571 U.S. 117, 139, n.19 (2014)) nor
specific jurisdiction (because Plaintiffs’ claims do arise out of or relate to
any purposeful contacts between Axe Wheels and California (nor could they have
given that Axe Wheels was not incorporated until 9 months after Wheels
International Inc. dba Lenso Wheels sold the tire to EMS). 
 
On March 20, 2024, EMS filed an ‘AMENDMENT TO
CROSS-COMPLAINT NAMING ROE 1’ naming Roe 1 as Wheels International Inc. dba
Lenso Wheels (“Lenso Wheels” or “Lenso”). 
 
On April 3, 2024, EMS dismissed Axe without prejudice. 
 
On April 19, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed ADRIANA SIORDIA
JIMENEZ and MARIO SIORDIA JIMENEZ with prejudice and Axe. That same day,
Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to the Complaint naming Doe 7 as Lenso
Wheels.  
 
On May 16, 2024, Lenso Wheels filed the instant motion to
quash as to EMS’s CC. 
 
On June 28, 2024, Lenso filed the instant MTQ as to
Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
 
On July 28, 2024, the court heard oral arguments as to
Lenso’s motion as to EMS’s CC. The court continued the hearing pending
jurisdictional discovery and supplemental briefing re: 'relatedness' factor.
The minute order indicates that the parties were to file supplemental briefing
by 9/24/24. 
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiffs ‘SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEFING AND
JOINDER IN SUPPORT OF OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT WHEELS INTERNATIONAL INC. DBA
LENSO WHEELS’ MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT FOR LACK OF
PERSONAL JURISDICTION.’ That same day, Defendant Lenso filed its ‘SUPPLEMENTAL
BRIEFING IN SUPPORT OF ITS MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONSES AND PLAINTIFFS’
COMPLAINT AND EMS DISTRIBUTING, LLC’S CROSSCOMPLAINT FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION.’ And that same day, EMOS filed its ‘SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEF RE:
CROSSDEFENDANT WHEELS INTERNATIONAL INC. DBA LENSO WHEELS' MOTION TO QUASH FOR
LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION.’
 
On October 1, 2024, Lenso filed evidentiary objections to
the declaration of Janet M. Jung (counsel for EMS).
 
On October 7, 2024, Lenso filed its ‘REPLY BRIEF IN SUPPORT
OF ITS MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT FOR LACK OF
PERSONAL JURISDICTION.’ 
 
Discussion[5]
 
The court’s previous ruling sought supplemental briefing on
the ‘relatedness’ factor because Lenso appeared to concede purposeful availment.
(See Reply p. 3:25-26 [“The focus here is not on purposeful availment. Rather,
the focus is on the second prong of the specific jurisdiction test….”].)[6]
However, in supplemental briefing, the prong appears to be contested. 
 
-       
Lenso Supp. Brief p. 5:16-17 [“That being so, Lenso
Wheels never purposefully availed itself to California.”]
-       
Lenso Supp. Brief p. 7:18-20 [“So while Lenso Wheels
products may have ended up in California, they arrived in California because
Lenso Wheels’ distributors resold the wheels there; and not because Lenso
Wheels purposefully availed itself to the California market.”].) 
-       
Plaintiffs’ Supp. Brief and Joinder of Opp. p. 2
[Header B]
 
Accordingly,
the court’s ruling will address both the purposeful availment and relatedness
prong. 
 
1.    
Purposeful Availment
 
The court in Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co.
Ltd. 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 556–557, (2019) provided the following
synthesis of purposeful availment. 
 
“ ‘ “The purposeful availment inquiry ...
focuses on the defendant's intentionality. [Citation.] This prong is only
satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs [its]
activities toward the forum so that [it] should expect, by virtue of the
benefit [it] receives, to be subject to the court's jurisdiction based on” [its]
contacts with the forum.’ [Citation.] Thus, purposeful availment occurs where a
nonresident defendant ‘ “purposefully direct[s]” [its] activities at residents
of the forum’ [citation], ‘ “purposefully derive[s] benefit” from’ its
activities in the forum [citation], ‘create[s] a “substantial connection”
with the forum’ [citation], ‘ “deliberately” has engaged in significant
activities within’ the forum [citation], or ‘has created “continuing
obligations” between [itself] and residents of the forum’ [citation]. By
limiting the scope of a forum's jurisdiction in this manner, the ‘ “purposeful
availment” requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a
jurisdiction solely as a result of “random,” “fortuitous,” or “attenuated”
contacts....
 
Plaintiffs and EMS argue that Lenso has availed itself
because Lenso directs its products to U.S. markets, including California. 
 
Carretti v. Italplast (2002)101 Cal.App.4th 1236 is
instructive.[7]  In Carretti,
a plaintiff filed suit against the manufacturer and distributor of a pasta
making machine after he was injured. (Id. at pp. 1239-1240.) Italpast, an
Italian corporation doing business in Italy, filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. (Id. at p. 1240.) In finding that
there was no specific jurisdiction upon the Italian company, the court provided
the following reasoning:
 
Italpast sold its products in Italy to a purchaser
who traveled there for the purpose of engaging in the transaction. We do not
construe this as an effort on Italpast's part to serve the California market.
It was serving the purchaser who arrived to do business with it in Italy.
True enough, it may have been foreseeable that the machines could wind up in
California, inasmuch as the purchaser in question happened to have an office in
California. But this is not the same as saying Italpast had or should have
had an expectation that the products would be sold to
California consumers. (Id. at pp. 1246-1247, emphasis
added.)
 
According to Richard Stokes’ deposition, EMS requests
Lenso send the product, EMS provides the shipping label, Lenso prints the
shipping label, Lenso places the shipping label on the package, and Lenso ships
the package to (EMS’) customer. Accordingly, here, like Carretti, Lenso was merely “serving the
purchaser who arrived to do business with it,” (ibid) which was EMS, an Arizona
corporation. On this note, unlike Jayone
Foods wherein the appellate court found that the defendant purposefully
availed itself of the benefits of doing California because the company engaged
in a number of direct sales with multiple California distributors of
its products (Jayone Foods, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 556), again, here,
EMS is incorporated in Arizona. Unlike Luberski, Inc. v. Oleficio F.LLI
Amato S.R.L. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 409 wherein the court determined that
the Italian company purposefully availed itself of the California market
because it was “completing a substantial transaction with a California entity
in California” (id. at p. 419), here, the transaction was between
EMS (Arizona) and Lenso (Florida). Plus, the transaction was not
substantial because wherein in Luberski the transaction was deemed
“substantial” because of “the size of the contemplated transaction—more than $400,000
for the first shipment and another similarly-sized shipment contemplated” (id.
at p. 419), here, the sale was for $1,290.00. (Stokes Decl., Ex. B.) 
 
Therefore, the court determines that Lenso has
not purposefully availed itself of the California forum. 
 
Though the court need not address relatedness as all
three prongs must be met, the court will address the matter as it was the
subject of briefing. 
 
2.    
Relatedness 
 
The court continued the hearing for further briefing on the
“relatedness” factor of specific jurisdiction. A claim “relates to” a
defendant’s forum conduct if it has a “connect[ion] with” that conduct. (International
Shoe v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 319.) “Or put just a bit differently,
‘there must be ‘an affiliation between the forum and the underlying
controversy, principally, [an] ACTIVITY or an occurrence that takes
place in the forum State and is therefore subject to the State's
regulation.’” (Ford Motor Company v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021)
592 U.S. 351, 359-360 (Ford Motor), quoting Bristol-Meyers, 582
U.S. at p. 1780, emphasis and capitalization added.) The requirement of a relatedness
between the claims and contacts is founded “on an idea of reciprocity
between a defendant and a State: When (but only when) a company ‘exercises the
privilege of conducting activities within a state’—thus “enjoy[ing] the
benefits and protection of [its] laws”—the [forum state] may hold the company
to account for related misconduct.” (Ford Motor, supra, 592 U.S. at p.
360, quoting International Shoe, supra, 326 U.S. at p. 319) (emphasis
added).[8]

 
Accordingly, inherent in this analysis is a determination of
what are the contacts/conduct and the claim(s). 
 
For example, in Ford Motor the contact(s)/conduct
was Ford “ACTIVELY seek[ing] to serve the market for automobiles….” (Ford
Motor, supra, 592 at p. 361 [“Ford does not contest that it does
substantial business in Montana and Minnesota—that it actively seeks to serve
the market for automobiles … Or to put that concession in more doctrinal
terms, Ford agrees that it has ‘purposefully avail[ed]’ itself of the
privilege of conducting activities’ in both places.”], emphasis and
capitalization added.) More specifically, Ford did so by marketing and
advertising in the state. (Id. at p. 357 [“Ford's ‘marketing and
advertisements’ influenced state residents to “purchase and drive more Ford
vehicles.”].) As for the plaintiffs’ claims, it was that the cars
malfunctioned in the forum states. (Ibid.) Based thereon, Ford
argued that its activities (i.e., marketing and advertising) do not
sufficiently connect to the claims (i.e., products liability) because specific
jurisdiction attaches in the designed, manufactured, sold the car. (Ibid.)
The Court rejected Ford’s “causation-only approach” because, essentially, the
whole point of Ford’s activities was to put more Fords on the roads, and that
Ford did, and an injury arose out of that activity. 
 
As for expounding upon what a “state’s market” entails, the
court turns to LG Chem, LTD v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2022)
80 Cal.App.5th 348 (LG Chem). In LG, the plaintiff was injured by
an LG battery he purchased from a vape shop, but the manufacturer's only sales of its
batteries in California were as industrial component parts to three companies
in the electric vehicle industry for use in such vehicles. The manufacturer did
not advertise, market, or solicit buyers for its batteries, and manufacturer
took steps to prevent sale of its batteries to individual consumers. (Id. at
pp. 365-367.) In distinguishing its facts from Ford Motor, the LG
Chem court observed the following: 
 
Unlike the Minnesota and Montana markets served by
Ford, the market served by LG Chem's California sales was not a consumer market….Under Ford Motor, it is not enough to satisfy the
second prong of the jurisdictional analysis to simply demonstrate that a
company “ ‘serves a market’ ”
for a product in California “ ‘and the product malfunction[ed] there,’” as
Lawhon asserts. “Serves a market” does
not mean “serves any market.” Although
under Ford Motor specific jurisdiction can
attach on a lesser, “ ‘relate to’ ” showing, the majority cautioned, “[t]hat
does not mean anything goes. In the sphere of specific jurisdiction, the
phrase ‘relate to’ incorporates real limits, as it must to adequately
protect defendants foreign to a forum…Essentially, Lawhon contends that
specific jurisdiction can be exerted over LG Chem wherever it sold its 18650
batteries, even if, as here, it deliberately LIMITED its sales to a NARROW
RANGE of businesses and tailored these transactions to avoid a consumer market.
(Id. at pp. 367-368, emphasis and underline added. and italics original.)  
 
Harmonizing the foregoing
principles, the court in its 7/8/24 ruling provided that, as applied here, the
issue is whether Lenso’s activity is grounded in a consumer market and
that such activity is connected to plaintiff’s suit for
negligence/products liability. 
 
EMS and Plaintiffs argue that because Lenso shipped the products to
Esqueda, then Lenso served a consumer market. Not so. As a wholesaler, Lenso Wheels
does not sell its wheels to consumers; rather, it sells its wheels through
distributors, who in turn, sell the wheels to the consuming public. Applying
EMS’ and Plaintiffs’ interpretation of “consumer” market does not comport with
the realities of how goods are sold today. Echoing the words of the LG
Chem court, “[u]nder [their] contention, there would potentially be personal
jurisdiction over a company in a consumer's product liability claim in any
jurisdiction that is part of the product's distribution chain. That goes too
far.” (Id. at p. 368.)  
 
Therefore, the court determines that
plaintiffs’ claims do not “relates to” defendant’s forum conduct since Lenso’s
conduct.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
motions are granted. 


