


[1] It is presumed that decedent is a California
resident. 
 


[2] On January 21, 2022, Plaintiffs amended their
Complaint to include EMS Distributing LLC. Specifically, against EMS,
Plaintiffs allege causes of action (COAs) for negligence, strict liability –
design/manufacturing defect, strict liability – failure to warn, product
liability – negligence and failure to warn, and a survivor action. 
 


[3]
Their motion was unopposed, the insurance paid the maximum amount, and evidence
shows that if it was not for the detached tire from Defendant Esqueda’s
vehicle, then Defendant Adrianna Jimenez would have not run over decedent. 
 


[4] According to the motion, EMS is the
seller/distributor of the wheels and Axe Wheels fulfilled Esqueda’s order and
the subject wheels. As for Esqueda, Ulloa, In and Out Tire, and Affordable
Wheel Repair, they may have at some point prior to the incident repaired,
maintained, and/or installed the subject wheel that detached from Esqueda's
vehicle
 


[5] The court will provide a consolidated analysis on the
motions as the arguments appear to be identical. 
 


[6] Lenso also makes note that it has not
“systematically” served the California market. (Lenso Reply p. 4:18-19.)
Whether a defendant’s contacts
with California are substantial, continuous, and systematic goes to the issue
of general jurisdiction. (See Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., 14
Cal.4th 434, 445-446 (1996).) 


[7] Though the court’s previous ruling cited Carretti
as to the relatedness prong, Carretti focused on the purposeful
availment prong. 
 


[8] In its original paper, Lenso argues that the claim is
not connected to Lenso’s conduct because Lenso has “sporadic sales” in
California. (Reply p. 3:25-28.) The whether contacts are “random, isolated, or
fortuitious” (i.e., sporadic) goes to the purposeful availment prong. (See
e.g., Ford Motor, supra, 592 U.S. at p. 359 [“The contacts
needed for this kind of jurisdiction often go by the name purposeful availment.
. . The contacts must be the defendant's own choice and not random, isolated,
or fortuitous.], internal quotations omitted.). 


