  Case Number:  23PSCV01346    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Maria
de Jesus Preciado v. General Motors LLC
General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend. The Court also GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to
amend. Plaintiff must file and serve the Second Amended Complaint within 20
days of the Court’s order, and then Defendant must file a responsive pleading
per statute. Alternatively, if Plaintiff does not file and serve the Second
Amended Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order, Defendant must file and
serve an Answer to the remaining causes of action in the First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND
This is a lemon law case. On May 3, 2023, plaintiff Maria de Jesus
Preciado (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant General Motors LLC (Defendant)
and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for breach of express
warranty, breach of implied warranty, violation of the Song-Beverly Act section
1793.2, and fraud (fraudulent inducement – concealment). On September 7, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging the same
causes of action. 
On October 4, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to the fourth cause
of action in the FAC and a motion to strike the FAC’s request for punitive
damages. The motions are unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Demurrer
            A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency
of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form
or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.)  
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack, or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence may be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].)  
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  
DISCUSSION -
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer in person or
by telephone before bringing the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The Court finds Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts to be adequate.
(Valencia Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Analysis
To plead a cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the
defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2)
that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation
was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Graham v. Bank of Am., N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605-606, internal quotation marks omitted.) 
To plead a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) concealment
or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff;
(3) the defendant
intended to defraud
the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted
as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained
damage as a result of the concealment
or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners
Med. Grp., Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for
fraudulent misrepresentation/fraudulent concealment on the grounds that the FAC
fails to state a viable claim for fraud by omission, that the concealment
allegations are insufficient as a matter of law, the FAC fails to allege fraud
with the requisite specificity, and that fraud cannot be based on
non-actionable puffery. With respect to fraud by omission, Defendant contends
that the FAC does not allege a specific omission by Defendant or the details
surrounding any such omission, such as: (1) whether Plaintiff communicated with
Defendant before purchasing the subject vehicle; (2) whether the purported
defect was covered under the warranty; (3) what alleged representations were
made to Plaintiff; (4) how the subject vehicle does not allegedly conform to
its intended use; (5) how Defendant failed to repurchase or replace the subject
vehicle; (6) how Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiff; and (7) what facts support
Plaintiff’s allegation that the subject vehicle is unsafe or ever exhibited a
safety concern. Defendant contends the allegations of the FAC in regard to this
matter are conclusory. 
With respect to the FAC’s concealment allegations
being insufficient as a matter of law, Defendant contends that there is no
allegation that Defendant was aware of any material fact that allegedly
impacted the subject vehicle’s safety at the time of the purchase or that
Plaintiff had any direct contact with Defendant at the time of purchase.
Defendant further contends it did not have a duty to disclose either, as there
was no fiduciary relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant, and Defendant is
not liable for the independent conduct of a dealership employee. 
With respect to the FAC’s failure to allege fraud
with the requisite specificity, Defendant contends the FAC fails to identify
the manager or consultant with whom Plaintiff spoke when leasing the subject
vehicle, when Plaintiff had any such conversations, or what advertisements or
marketing materials Plaintiff reviewed or relied upon in purchasing[1]
the subject vehicle. Defendant contends the allegations here are otherwise
conclusory. 
Finally, with respect to non-actionable puffery,
Defendant contends the FAC does not allege what statements Plaintiff might have
relied on from Defendant. Defendant contends that, to the extent Plaintiff may
have relied on some unspecified statement, it was nothing more than puffery,
which is not actionable. 
The Court finds that the fourth cause of action for
fraudulent misrepresentation/fraudulent concealment is subject to demurrer. The
FAC fails to allege facts demonstrating that the sales representative at the
dealership was authorized to make any statements or representations on behalf
of Defendant. (Avalon Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965) 234
Cal.App.2d 178, 184 [a dealer or retailer is not an agent of the
manufacturer].) While the FAC does allege that there was an agency relationship
between Defendant and the auto dealer in this matter, (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 5,
8), the Court finds such allegations to be conclusory and unsupported by facts
elsewhere in the FAC, and therefore disregards them. (Wexler v. California
Fair Plan Association (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 55, 70). 
The Court also finds the FAC fails to allege facts with the
specificity required for fraud claims. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) The FAC does not allege the name of the sales
representative with whom Plaintiff purportedly spoke or their authority to
speak, which is particularly important when alleging fraudulent
misrepresentations made on behalf of a corporation. (See Id.; Mason
v. Drug, Inc. (1939) 31 Cal.App.2d 697, 703 [“if the plaintiff would charge
the defendant corporation with making fraudulent misrepresentations it was
necessary for him to allege the name of the person who spoke, his authority to
speak, to whom he spoke, what he said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.”]) 
The Court further finds the FAC fails to allege facts
demonstrating that Defendant was in a relationship with Plaintiff that required
Defendant to disclose information for purposes of a fraudulent concealment
claim. 
There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure
or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts...’ 
Each of the [non-fiduciary relationship]
circumstances in which nondisclosure may be actionable presupposes the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in
which a duty to disclose can arise… 
As a matter of common sense, such a relationship can
only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the
parties. [Citations.] 
(LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336, italics in original and internal citations
omitted; see also Shin v. Kong (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th
498, 509 [“A duty to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a
relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as ‘seller and buyer, employer
and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind
of contractual agreement.’”]) 
The FAC does not allege facts demonstrating that
Defendant and Plaintiff were in a fiduciary relationship with each other or in
any other sort of transactional relationship. The FAC does not allege that Defendant
sold the subject vehicle to Plaintiff or that the parties directly entered into
a contract with each other. The FAC also does not allege facts showing that
Defendant had exclusive knowledge for purposes of concealment, or that
Defendant actively concealed information from Plaintiff or made partial representations
to Plaintiff. 
Finally, the Court construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to the
demurrer as a tacit admission that it is meritorious. (Holden
v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.
Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the
fourth cause of action with leave to amend. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Motion to Strike
            “Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike
Meet and Confer
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer
telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts
to be adequate. (Valencia Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Analysis
Defendant
seeks to strike item 6 from the prayer for relief of the FAC, which is
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. In light of the Court sustaining the
demurrer with leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation/fraudulent concealment, the Court further finds the FAC has
not alleged a cause of action that provides for punitive damages. (See Civ.
Code § 3294, subd. (a); Id. § 1794; Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 946, 963-964 [punitive damages available for other causes of
action based on different conduct in connection with lemon law case].) The Court also construes
Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to the motion to strike as a tacit admission
that it is meritorious. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal.
Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend. The Court also GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to
amend. Plaintiff must file and serve the Second Amended Complaint within 20
days of the Court’s order, and then Defendant must file a responsive pleading
per statute. Alternatively, if Plaintiff does not file and serve the Second
Amended Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order, Defendant must file and
serve an Answer to the remaining causes of action in the First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.


