 Case Number:  23STCV28023    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Barron v. Liao 
23STCV28023
March 1, 2024
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories,
Requests for Production, and Requests for Admission
 
Tentative
The motions are granted.
The requests for sanctions are granted in part.
Background
Plaintiffs Angelina Barron and Rheianne Marquez (“Plaintiffs”)
filed the complaint in this action on November 15, 2023, and the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on January 8, 2024.  In
the FAC, Plaintiffs assert causes of action for negligence/negligence per se
and negligent hiring, retention, and supervision against Defendants Ruijie Liao
(“Liao”), Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1 through 50, arising out
of a vehicle accident on April 14, 2022, at or near the intersection of North
Eastern Avenue and McPherson Avenue in Los Angeles.  Plaintiffs allege that they used Uber’s
application to obtain transportation and at the time of the accident they were
passengers in a vehicle driven by their Uber driver Liao.
Liao filed an answer to the FAC on January 26, 2024.  Uber filed an answer to the FAC on May 13,
2024.
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff Angelina Barron served Liao with Form
Interrogatories (Set One); Special Interrogatories (Set One); Requests for
Admission (Set One); and Requests for Production (Set One).  (Chun Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. 1-2.)  Plaintiff Angelina Barron served Liao with Special
Interrogatories (Set Two) and Requests for Production (Set Two) on April 15,
2024.  (Id., ¶ 3 & Exhs. 2-3.)  
On May 20, 2024, Defendant Liao served objection-only responses
to the Form Interrogatories; the Special Interrogatories (Set One); the Requests
for Admission (Set One); and the Requests for Production (Set One).  (Id., ¶¶ 3-4 & Exhs. 3-5.)  Defendant Liao served objection-only responses
to the Special Interrogatories (Set Two) and the Requests for Production (Set
Two) on June 7.  (Id., ¶ 5 & Exhs. 4,
6.)  
On July 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed these three motions to
compel further responses.  Plaintiffs
also seek sanctions.  Liao filed
oppositions on July 25, and Plaintiffs filed replies on July 31 and August 1.
The Court conducted an Informal Discovery Conference on July
31.
 
 
 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion
to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiffs move to compel further responses to
interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admission.
As a threshold matter, the motions are brought on behalf of both
Plaintiffs, but the discovery was propounded only by Plaintiff Angelina Barron.  Plaintiff Rheianne Marquez cannot enforce or
obtain relief regarding discovery propounded by another party.
As to Plaintiff Angelina Barron, she has shown that the
objections asserted by Liao are without merit. 
Indeed, in his opposition, Liao does not contend otherwise.  Rather, all that Liao argues (through his
counsel) is that sanctions should not be imposed because counsel has not been
unable to communicate with Liao.
Be that as it may, the motions to compel further responses are
granted in their entirety.  Plaintiff Barron
propounded this discovery in March and April, and she is entitled to substantive,
code-complaint responses.  She has not
received any such responses to date.
As to sanctions, the Court grants Plaintiff Barron’s request
in part.  Sanctions are mandatory under
these provisions of the Civil Discovery Act unless the Court finds that the party or attorney subject
to sanctions acted with “substantial justification” or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction “unjust.” 
As to Defendant Liao, he has not acted with substantial justification,
and the imposition of sanctions would not be unjust.  He is represented by counsel and has an obligation
to remain in communication with his counsel and to comply with the provisions
of the Civil Discovery Act; it is not substantially justified for him to evade
his obligations under the Civil Discovery Act by failing to communicate with
counsel, and it is not unjust under these circumstances to impose monetary
sanctions against him.  As to counsel,
however, the Court finds that on this record and under these circumstances, the
imposition of sanctions against counsel would be unjust.
Given the relatively
straightforward nature of these motions, the Court sets sanctions on each
motion in the amount of $810, calculated based on 2.5 hours of attorney work
for each motion multiplied by a reasonable rate of $300 per hour for work of
this nature, plus the filing fee of $60.
Conclusion
To the extent that any relief is sought by or on behalf of
Plaintiff Rheianne Marquez, it is denied.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Angelina Barron’s motions to compel
further responses to discovery in their entirety.
The Court ORDERS Defendant Ruijie Liao to serve verified, code
complaint, further responses, without objection, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories
(Set One); Special Interrogatories (Set One); Special Interrogatories (Set Two);
Requests for Admission (Set One); Requests for Production (Set One); and Requests
for Production (Set Two) within 30 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Defendant Ruijie Liao to pay monetary
sanctions to Plaintiff Angelina Barron under the Civil Discovery Act in the amount
of $2,430 within 30 days of notice.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.