  Case Number:  21STCV17531    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Stewart v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority 
Case No. 21STCV17531
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Requests
for Production (Set One)


Tentative 
The motion to compel is granted in its entirety.
The request for sanctions is denied.
Background
On May 10, 2021, Maurice Sr. Stewart and Stephanie Stewart
filed the complaint in this matter asserting one cause of action for negligence
against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”) and
Does 1 through 20, arising out of a bus accident on May 1, 2020.  Plaintiffs allege that they were passengers
on a Metro bus and were injured when the driver of the bus stopped suddenly,
causing them to “slam[] their back and shoulders into the bus wall.”  (Complaint, ¶ 10.)
Metro filed an answer to the complaint on November 30, 2021.
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff Maurice Sr. Stewart (“Plaintiff”)
served Metro with Requests for Production (Set One).  (Yadegari Decl., ¶ 2 & Exh. A.)  Metro provided responses on May 14 and
verifications on June 10.  (Id., ¶
3 & Exh. B.)
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further responses on July
15, 2024.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.  Metro filed its opposition on July 29.  No reply has been filed.
Plaintiff satisfied the requirements for an Informal Discovery
Conference (IDC). 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Production (Set One), Nos. 1-15.  Metro
objected to all 15 requests.
The Court has reviewed each of Metro’s objections and finds them
to be without merit.  As to Metro’s
assertions of privilege, work product, confidentiality, and other protections
from disclosure, Metro has the burden of establishing the foundational facts for
each of these, and Metro has failed to do so.
Accordingly, the motion to compel is granted in its entirety.
The request for sanctions is denied.  The notice of motion and motion fails to give
Metro adequate notice of the request, as it states that sanctions are sought
against “Plaintiff” and “their counsel of record,” and Metro is the defendant
in this action.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to discovery in its entirety.
The Court ORDERS Defendant Metro to serve verified, code
complaint, further responses, without objection, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
(Set One) within 15 days of notice.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.