 Case Number:  22STCV27598    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Saborio v. City of Los Angeles
22STCV27598
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On August 24,
2022, Oscar Arthur Saborio (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los
Angeles and Does 1 through 50 for premises liability arising out of a bicycle
accident on the sidewalk near 6345 Balboa Boulevard in Encino on June 6, 2021.
City of Los Angeles has yet to appear in this matter.
 
After Plaintiff failed
to appear for the Final Status or the Trial, the Court dismissed the complaint
on February 21, 2024, without prejudice.
 
On April 16,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to set aside the dismissal. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) provides for mandatory and
discretionary relief from dismissal. “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b). Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the motion
shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be filed,
or the application will not be granted. (Id.) The court must grant
relief from dismissal where the application is accompanied by an attorney
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
(Id.) In either case, the application must be made within a reasonable
time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Id.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff requests the Court set
aside the dismissal of his complaint on February 21, 2024.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that the prior attorney
assigned to the case ceased working at the law firm in or around November 2022,
and due to inadvertence or neglect, no one calendared the Final Status
Conference (on February 7, 2024) or the Trial (on February 21, 2024).  (Clark Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  Because the dates were not calendared, no one
appeared, leading to the dismissal of the case.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has established that the
dismissal was the result of inadvertence or neglect of counsel, requiring the setting
aside of the dismissal.
 
As such, the motion to set aside the
dismissal is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
to set aside dismissal.
 
The Court SETS ASIDE the Order of
Dismissal filed on February 21, 2024.
 
The Court SETS an OSC re Dismissal for Failure to
Prosecute Diligently (Delay in Service of the Summons and Complaint) in
approximately 60 days.
 
The Court SETS a Trial Setting Conference for the same
date and time.
 
Moving party to give notice.