 Case Number:  23STCV05556    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Gonzalez v. City of Los Angeles
23STCV05556
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On March 13, 2023, Ana Virginia Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles Department
of Water & Power (“DWP”), Griffith Company (“Griffith”), Webcor L.P., and
Does 1 through 25 for premises liability arising out of a trip and fall on July
12, 2022.
 
On July 18, 2023, Griffith filed an answer. 
 
On August 1, 2023, Webcor LP RCCIP II (erroneously sued
as Webcor L.P.) (“Webcor”) filed an answer. 
 
On August 14, 2023, City (for itself and acting by and
through DWP) filed an answer.  The same
day, City filed a cross-complaint against Griffith, Webcor, and Roes 1 through
20.
 
On September 13, 2023, Webcor filed an answer to the
cross-complaint and its own cross-complaint against City and Roes 1 through 10.
 
On January 16, 2024, the Court, at the request of
Plaintiff, dismissed all causes of action in the complaint against Griffith
without prejudice.
 
On February 5, 2024, the Court, at the request of City, dismissed
all causes of action against Griffith in City’s cross-complaint without
prejudice.
 
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to
name Southern California Gas Company as Doe 1.
 
On May 16, 2024, Webcor filed this motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint against Southern California Gas Company. No opposition
has been filed. This motion was continued from July 15 to August 9. Nothing was
filed by the parties in the interim.
 
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.  
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause
of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds.
(a) & (b).)  
Subject to the exceptions set forth by
statute, if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action
against the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the
complaint, “such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against
the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
A permissive
cross-complaint, in contrast, may include a much broader group of
pleadings.  Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.10, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated
cause of action “against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).) 
Alternatively, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert a “cause of action he has against a person alleged to
be liable thereon, whether or not such a person is already party to the action,
if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
(Id., subd. (b).) 
Cross-complaints for contribution or indemnity against new parties fall
within the definition of a permissive cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party
must file a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the
answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court “after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may
be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  The “good faith”
standard must “be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive
cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of
action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the
party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a) & (b).)  If a party fails to do so, and then later on
seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant leave “in the
interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints against a person or
entity that is not already a party in the action are always permissive, rather
than compulsory. (Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2023], ¶ 6:524.)
Discussion
Webcor seeks leave to file a cross-complaint
against Southern California Gas Company. 
Webcor, however, already has filed a
cross-complaint in this action: on September 13, 2023, Webcor filed a
cross-complaint against City and Roes 1 through 10.  That cross-complaint has not been dismissed
and remains operative and in place.
Webcor cannot have two separate
cross-complaints on file in this action. 
Webcor has two options.  First,
Webcor can amend the existing cross-complaint (and, depending on the amendment,
leave of the Court may or may not be required). 
Second, and alternatively, Webcor can dismiss the existing cross-complaint
and then refile this motion.  But while
the cross-complaint filed on September 13, 2023, remains on file, it cannot
obtain leave to file a second cross-complaint.
Accordingly, the motion is dismissed without prejudice.
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Webcor’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
without prejudice. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.