  Case Number:  21STCV20680    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JACOB
  REICH
                           
         vs.
 
MANSOUR
  HASHEM
 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV20062
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: February 14, 2024



 
            Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
On June 7, 2019, Plaintiff Jacob Reich filed
a Complaint against Defendant Mansour Hashem. On September 1, 2020, Plaintiff
filed a second amended complaint (SAC) 
alleging: (1) breach of written contract; (2) money had and received;
(3) common counts; (4) open book account; (5) account stated; (6) failure to
honor checks; (7) fraud; (8) negligence; (9) unjust enrichment; (10) judiciary
foreclosure; and (11) reformation of contract. 
 
Now, Defendant moves for reconsideration of
the Court’s 10/18/2023 Order.
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
seeks reconsideration of the Court’s 10/18/2023 wherein the Court partially
granted Plaintiff’s request for an order of assignment, directing 40% of rents
to Plaintiff. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), a motion for
reconsideration must be brought “within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances,
or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.”  (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206,
212.)  
 
Here, Defendant argues that “[i]n the case at hand, as per the declaration
of defendant Mansour Hashem, clearly sets forth the new evidence that was not
considered at the time of the hearing dated October 18, 2023.” (Motion,
3:28-4:1.) However, Defendant’s motion does not then identify what new evidence
he is setting forth. Moreover, the standard for reconsideration is not merely
the presentation of facts that weren’t considered in the original motion, but Defendant
must show that those new facts were not available at the time of the hearing. “The
party seeking reconsideration must provide not just new evidence or different
facts, but a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce it at an
earlier time.” (Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342).
 
            Defendant’s
motion, like his other motion, also fail to attach any corroborating evidence.
For example, Defendant now claims he pays alimony pursuant to a “verbal
agreement” that he has been paying for 30 years. However, he submits no
evidence in support of this, nor does he explain whether this is different from
the “child support” he previously claimed to pay for his adult child. Defendant
also claims Plaintiff blocked a sale to a prospective buyer a few months ago,
but presents no evidence. He claims COVID-19 brought a reduction in income so
Defendant had to “borrow money just to eat.” He submits no evidence to show
this. Moreover, Defendant claims that the Court did not consider that he works
as a full-time property manager for the properties. However, Defendant claimed
suspiciously high monthly cleaning and maintenance fees that he was not able to
corroborate with any evidentiary support. The Court still considered those sums
when deciding to assign 40% of rental income. As such, the Court actually did consider
income that goes toward Defendant’s maintenance of the properties.   
 
            Taken
together, Defendant has not presented any new facts or law that would warrant
reconsideration, nor has he presented any new evidence to corroborate his
claims. 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for reconsideration is denied. 
 
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 