  Case Number:  23CHCV01589    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/22/25                                                              
TRIAL DATE: 6/16/25
Case #23CHCV01589
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Motion filed on 6/26/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital
RESPONDING PARTY: all other parties
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting leave to file a cross-complaint against TLC Travel Staff, LLC.

 
RULING: The motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs Vienna Mevorach, by
and through her Guardian ad Litem, Amanda Parry, and Amanda Parry’s
(Plaintiffs) claims that defendants, including Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital (Henry Mayo), failed to timely diagnose, manage, and treat signs and
symptoms of fetal distress during Parry’s labor and delivery on 7/18/22.  (See Request for Judicial Notice (RJN)
- Complaint).  At the time of the
incident, Parry’s primary labor and delivery nurse, Michelle Ince, R.N., was
employed by TLC Travel Staff, LLC (TLC). 
(See Munoz Decl., Ex.1, 2).
 
At the time of the incident, a contract between Henry
Mayo and TLC was in effect (Master Agreement for Staffing Services or MASS).  (Munoz Decl., Ex.2, Section XI.C).  The MASS contains a mutual indemnification
provision.  
 
On 6/1/23, Plaintiffs filed this action against several
defendants, including Henry Mayo, for professional negligence.  (See RJN – Complaint).  On 7/12/23, Henry Mayo filed an answer, but
did not file a cross-complaint. 
Thereafter, Henry Mayo tendered the defense of the case to TLC pursuant
to the MASS, wherein TLC agreed to indemnify Henry Mayo from liability it may
incur “by reason of bodily injury…to the extent caused by the negligent acts or
omission” of TLC employees “in the performance of their assignment” for Henry
Mayo.  (Munoz Decl., Ex.3; Ex.2, Section
XI.C).  As of the filing of this motion, TLC
has not responded to Henry Mayo’s tender of defense.
 
Therefore, on 6/26/24, Henry Mayo filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order granting leave to file a cross-complaint
against TLC.  No opposition or other
response to the motion has been filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Henry Mayo’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
granted.
 
CCP 428.10 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“A party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a
cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the following:
 
. .
.
 
(b) Any cause of action he has
against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is
already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts
a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him.”
 
Each of the causes of action Henry Mayo proposes to
assert against TLC arise from “the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against” Henry Mayo.
 
With regard to when leave of court is necessary to file a
cross-complaint, CCP 428.50 provides:
 
“(a) A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
(c) A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”
 
The Court finds that it is in the interests of justice
and judicial economy to allow Henry Mayo to file the cross-complaint in this
action, rather than filing a separate action.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
Henry Mayo must separately file the cross-complaint  and serve same on all parties in compliance
with CCP 428.60.  Contrary to the
assertion in the motion, a copy of the cross-complaint is not attached to the
motion as Exhibit 4.  (See Munoz
Decl. ¶6).
 
 
 