 Case Number:  22STCV27216    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  26 7/15/2024
Dept. 73
Rolf M. Treu, Judge presiding
 
MELISSA MAJOR v. ACCENTCARE,
INC. (22STCV27216)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:               Steven
Waisbren, Esq. of Law Offices of Steven Waisbren
 
Counsel
for Defendant/opposing party:        Vince
M. Verde, Vanoohi Torossian of Ogletree, Deakins,                                                                  Nash,
Smoak & Stewart, P.C. 
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SUBPOENAS FOR PRODUCTION OF MEDICAL RECORDS ISSUED BY DEFENDANTS ACCENTCARE,
INC. AND ACCENTCARE UCLA HEALTH, LLC; ALTERNATIVE REQUEST FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER;
REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES OF $6,325 (filed 11/7/2023)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
The motion is GRANTED
IN PART and DENIED IN PART as follows.
The request to
issue a protective order is GRANTED. Defendants shall serve UCLA Health Systems and Malibu Family
Medicine with modified subpoenas asking the nonparties to produce only the following records from May 1, 2021, to the present: 
(1)  
All mental health records;
(2)   All
records concerning
"insomnia, anger, depression, anxiety, frustration, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, stomach pain, lack of concentration, feeling of helplessness and
hopelessness, worry, more reliance on medication, isolation, and fatigue;"
and
(3)   All records from Dr. Scott F. Bateman at Malibu Family
Medicine.
The
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 22, 2022, Plaintiff Melissa Major (“Plaintiff”),
an individual, on behalf of herself and other current or former employees of
defendants, filed this action. 
 
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Accentcare, Inc.,
Accentcare UCLA Health, LLC, and Does 1 to 30, inclusive, asserting the
following causes of action:
 
(1)      Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
(2)      Retaliation
for Asserting Legal Rights 
(3)      Failure
to Pay all Wages at Time of Discharge  
(4)      Failure
to Provide Accurate Itemized Statements 
(5)      Unfair
Competition 
(6)      Disability
Discrimination – Wrongful Discrimination Re: Terms, Conditions, and Privileges
of Employment 
(7)      Disability
Discrimination 
(8)      Retaliation

(9)      Failure
to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination 
(10)  Violation
of the AADA's Anti-Retaliation Provisions 
(11)  Negligent
Supervision and Training of Employees
(12)  Breach
of Implied Duty to Perform Contract 
(13)  Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
(14)  Violation
of Labor Code, Section 222.5 – Civil Penalties under Labor Code, Section 2398,
et. seq. 
(15)  Violation
of Labor Code, Sections 2802 and 2398, et. seq., Failure to Reimburse
Out-Of-Pocket Expenses
(16)  Breach
of Implied Contract
 
The FAC alleges the following, among other things.
On June 2, 2021, Plaintiff accepted the defendant’s employment offer to work
for them as a licensed vocational nurse. (FAC, ¶¶ 39, 40, 42.) However, the
offer came with various conditions, including requiring Plaintiff to get a
physical examination. (FAC, ¶ 42.) Plaintiff’s health insurance refused to pay
for the physical examination, and she could not pay for it out of pocket. (FAC,
¶ 4.) Therefore, Plaintiff asked the defendants to pay for the examination, but
the defendants refused, violating Labor Code section 222.5. (FAC, ¶¶ 42-43.) During
that time, but before her termination, Plaintiff told the defendants that she
had a disabled daughter (but did not request any form of accommodation for her daughter’s
disability). (FAC, ¶ 44.) On June 18, 2021, the defendants told Plaintiff in a
voicemail that their offer was withdrawn and that they were terminating her
even though she still had 10 days to complete the conditions the defendants had
presented in their offer. (FAC, ¶ 45.) Plaintiff is informed and believes that
the actual reason for her termination was because of (1) her insistence that
the defendants comply with Labor Code section 222.5 with regard to paying for her
physical examination, and (2) she had advised Defendants that her daughter was
disabled. (FAC, ¶ 43.) 
 
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to
quash or, alternatively, for a protective order, arguing:
·                
In the FAC,
Plaintiff alleges that she suffered and continues to suffer, among other
things, emotional distress, worry, humiliation, mental anguish, anxiety, loss
of enjoyment of life, and medical (past and future) expenses. 
·                
Given those
allegations, Defendants Accentcare Inc. and Accentcare UCLA Health LLC
(collectively, “Defendants" have taken the position that they are entitled
to delve into Plaintiff’s entire medical history regardless of relevance to
this case. 
·                
To that end, on or
about July 3, 2023, Defendants served Plaintiff’s health providers, UCLA Health
Systems and Malibu Family Medicine, with subpoenas (the “Initial Subpoenas,”
seeking all of Plaintiff’s medical and billing records. 
·                
After the parties
met and conferred, the Defendants served revised subpoenas (“Revised Subpoenas”).

·                
However, the
Revised Subpoenas did not change anything in the Initial Subpoenas except limit
the time period to records from June 18, 2016. 
·                
Defendants have
refused to narrow the scope of the subpoenas. 
·                
The Court should
issue an order quashing the Revised Subpoenas for the following reasons. 
o  
The Revised
Subpoenas do not specifically describe each individual item or reasonably
particularize each category of item as required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2040.410. 
o  
Instead, they are
unlimited in scope and require the production of records involving every part
of Plaintiff’s body. 
o  
However, Plaintiff
has a right to privacy in her health records. 
o  
Defendants are only
entitled to medical records relevant to the issues raised in this lawsuit. 
o  
Therefore, the
Revised Subpoenas should be quashed. 
·                
Alternatively, the
Court should issue a protective order requiring Defendants to only seek records
relevant to this action 
·                
The Court should
also impose sanctions against Defendants and their counsel in the amount of
$6,325 for necessitating this motion. 
In opposition, Defendants
argue that:
·                
The motion should
be denied because Plaintiff did not file a separate statement, which was
required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345. 
·                
In any event, Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that she suffered emotional distress
damages. 
·                
Further, in her discovery responses, Plaintiff claimed that she received
medication for her alleged distress and that she “can recall [suffering from]
insomnia, anger, depression, anxiety, frustration, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
stomach pain, lack of concentration, feeling of helplessness and hopelessness,
worry, more reliance on medication, isolation, and fatigue.”
·                
Plaintiff states that those alleged symptoms have either remained the
same or gotten worse.
·                
Therefore, because Plaintiff has placed her mental and emotional health
at issue, she has waived any privacy rights she may have related to the same. 
·                
Defendants have a right to investigate Plaintiff’s medical history to
determine whether alternate causes for her alleged distress. 
·                
The Revised
Subpoenas are appropriately limited.
o  
The subpoena is
directed to the specific doctor/entity that Plaintiff has identified in her
discovery responses and/or document production, and no one else. 
o  
Furthermore,
Defendants are not seeking a lifetime of medical history, but are only seeking
records from June 28, 2016, to the present.
·              
The records sought
will allow Defendants to assess Plaintiff’s injuries and the issue of
causation. 
·                
Notwithstanding the
above, after Plaintiff filed the motion, Defendants attempted to meet and
confer with Plaintiff and offered to modify the Revised Subpoenas, but
Plaintiff did not respond. 
·                
Sanctions are not
warranted because the Revised Subpoenas are reasonable in scope and only seek
records relevant to this case. 
·                
For those reasons,
the motion should be denied. 
In reply, Plaintiff
contends. 
 
·                
A separate statement
is not required because the motion does not seek to quash the production of
documents “at a deposition” within the meaning of California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(a)(5). 
·                
Plaintiff has not
argued that Defendants do not have a right to obtain medical records relevant
to this case. 
·                
Instead, Plaintiff seeks
to prevent Defendants from receiving records that extend beyond the scope of
what documents they received within the zone of privacy. 
·                
Defendants are
incorrect in saying that Plaintiff has waived privacy rights of her medical
information by initiating this lawsuit.
·                
Defendant’s right
to receive medical, financial, and employment information is severely limited,
a point which Defendant’s Opposition entirely ignores.
·                
Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 35 provides the standard for
evaluating whether a discovery request threatens to invade a privacy right. The
other cases Defendants have cited are distinguishable. 
·                
Plaintiff’s counsel
reviewed the proposed revised subpoena and found it is still inadequate. 
·                
Sanctions are highly
appropriate because Defendants did not do anything to resolve the issue
presented in the motion. 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard for Motions to Quash Subpoena
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court …, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) 
 
“For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.…’ [Citation.] Admissibility is
not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might
reasonably lead to admissible evidence.” (Gonzalez v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
 
The subpoena must “designate
the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each
individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item, and
shall specify the form in which any electronically stored information is to be
produced, if a particular form is desired.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd.
(a).) 
“[T]he court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person [including a party] … may make an
order quashing [a] subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a) [emphasis added].) The court may also “make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
B.    
Separate Statement
 
As an initial matter, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
was required to file a separate statement with the instant motion. 
“In civil litigation, discovery may be
obtained from a nonparty only through a ‘deposition subpoena.’” (Unzipped
Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.) The Civil Discovery
Act (the “Act”) authorizes three types of deposition subpoenas of a nonparty:
“oral deposition,” “written deposition,” and “deposition for production of
business records.” (See Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.010, subdivisions
(a)(1)-(3).) “Under the plain meaning rule, the Act contemplates that discovery
conducted by way of a business records subpoena is a ‘deposition.’” (Unzipped
Apparel, LLC v. Bader, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 131.)
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5),
requires a motion “to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a
deposition” to be accompanied by a separate statement. “A separate statement is
a separate document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides
all the information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the
responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) A
separate statement is not required when (1) no response has been provided to
the request for discovery (the “no-response exception”), or (2) when a court
has allowed the moving party to submit (in place of a separate statement) a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1)-(2).)
Since Defendants served the nonparties with
deposition subpoenas for production for business records, rule 3.1345 above
required Plaintiff to file a separate statement. (Motion, Exhibit B [including
copies of the deposition subpoenas].)
However, the Court has not found (and Defendants
have not cited) any law holding that a failure to file a separate statement is
grounds for denying the motion.
Accordingly, the Court will consider the
motion on its merits. 
C.    
Request to Quash
 
Plaintiff
moves for an order quashing or issuing a protective order against the subpoenas
that Defendants served on nonparties UCLA
Health Systems and Malibu Family Medicine. 
 
According to Plaintiff, those subpoenas constitute
the second set of subpoenas (hereafter, the “Revised Subpoenas”) that
Defendants served the nonparties after she met and conferred with them regarding
the first set of subpoenas.  
 
The
Revised Subpoenas ask the nonparties to
produce the following Plaintiff’s medical records, dating from June 18, 2016,
to present:
 
All medical and billing records pertaining to
the care, treatment and examination of Melissa Major at Malibu Family Medicine,
including sign-in sheets; intake history forms; inpatient and outpatient charts
and records; ambulance, emergency room and lab reports; pathology reports;
prescription and pharmacy records; and doctors’ notes. Mental health records,
including all psychiatric, psychological, counseling, and psychotherapy
records. Billing records, including, but, not limited to, charges, explanation
of benefits, payments, adjustments, write-offs, balances due, insurance records
and billing charges regarding care at Malibu Family Medicine. Records should
include, but, not be limited to treatment provided by Dr. Scott F. Bateman at
Malibu Family Medicine.
 
(Motion, Exhibit B, Copies of the Subpoenas.)
 
The
parties do not dispute that the Revised Subpoenas seek relevant records to some
degree. After all, Plaintiff placed some of her health in controversy by
alleging that “[a]s a direct and proximate cause of the Defendants’ unlawful,
wrongful, intentional, wrongful, and retaliatory conduct, and adverse
employment actions, Plaintiff suffered and continues to suffer emotional
distress, worry, humiliation, mental anguish, anxiety, loss of enjoyment of
life …, past and future medical … expenses ….” (FAC, ¶¶ 57, 68, 124, 134, 144; see Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 839 [holding that “party who chooses to allege that he has mental
and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy”].)
The FAC further alleges that Plaintiff is seeking “monetary damages for
humiliation, anxiety, and emotional distress in an amount to be shown at the
time of trial ….” (FAC, p. 50:27-28.)
 
The parties only dispute whether the Revised
Subpoenas are reasonable in scope.  
 
Plaintiff is correct to argue that when evaluating
potential privacy violations concerning discovery, the Court is guided by the
framework articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35 (“Hill”). “Hill sets forth in detail the
analytical framework for assessing claims of invasion of privacy under the
state Constitution.” (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court
(2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 370.) 
 
“The party asserting a privacy right must establish
a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation.]” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (“Williams”),
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-40) 
 
“The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests’ disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) 
 
“A court must then balance these competing
considerations.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) In other
words, a court must balance competing rights (the right of a litigant to
discover relevant facts and the right of an individual to maintain reasonable
privacy) in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Ibid.)
 
Here,
because Plaintiff has a right to privacy in her medical records and Defendants
seek the production of those records, Plaintiff has established within the
meaning of the standard in Hill (1) a legally protected privacy
interest, (2) an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy, and (3) a
threatened intrusion that is serious.
 
However,
Defendants have also met their burden under Hill by raising in response
legitimate and important countervailing interests that disclosure serves, and
that is that Defendants seek information relevant to Plaintiff’s claim for
medical damages.
 
Upon balancing those competing interests, the
Court finds that the Revised Subpoenas are overly broad in scope because they
seek records beyond the medical issues Plaintiff alleged in her FAC or
identified in her discovery responses. The subpoenas are also overly broad in
terms of time. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff applied for a job with Defendants
in May 2021. (FAC, ¶ 40.)
Defendants have not explained why they need records from June 18, 2016. 
For those reasons, the Court finds it proper
to require the Defendants to serve modified subpoenas asking the nonparties to
produce only the following records, dating from May 1, 2021, to present: 
(1)   All mental
health records (because Plaintiff has placed her mental health in controversy);
(2)  
All records concerning “insomnia,
anger, depression, anxiety, frustration, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach
pain, lack of concentration, feeling of helplessness and hopelessness, worry,
more reliance on medication, isolation, and fatigue” (conditions that Plaintiff
identified in her discovery responses), and
(3)   All records from Dr.
Scott F. Bateman at Malibu Family Medicine (the physician Plaintiff identified
her discovery responses).
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for a
protective order requiring modification of the Revised Subpoenas is granted
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a). 
D.    
Request for Sanctions
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $6,325, for necessitating
this motion. The amount consists of 5.5 hours counsel spent on the moving
papers, 2 hours counsel anticipated spending reviewing the opposition, 3 hours
counsel anticipated drafting the reply, and 1 hour counsel anticipated spending
at the hearing, a total of 11.5 hours at counsel’s billing rate of $550 per
hour. (Declaration of Steven Waisbren, filed on November 7, 2023, ¶ 9.)
 
“Except as specified in subdivision (c) [which concerns
electronically stored information and, therefore, inapplicable here], in making
an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1 [which this Court has done above], the court may in its
discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or
opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds
the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification
or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”
 
Here, the Court finds that Defendants did not oppose the
motion in bad faith, without substantial justification, or that one or more of
the requirements of the Revised Subpoenas was oppressive. Indeed, by raising legitimate and important countervailing
interests in Plaintiff’s medical records, Defendants met
their standard under Hill. 
 
Accordingly, the request for sanctions is denied. 
 

III.
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as follows.
The request to issue a protective order is GRANTED. Defendants shall serve UCLA Health Systems and Malibu Family Medicine with modified
subpoenas asking the nonparties to
produce only the following records from May 1, 2021, to the present: 
(4)  
All mental health records;
(5)   All
records concerning “insomnia,
anger, depression, anxiety, frustration, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach
pain, lack of concentration, feeling of helplessness and hopelessness, worry,
more reliance on medication, isolation, and fatigue;” and
(6)   All records from Dr.
Scott F. Bateman at Malibu Family Medicine.
The request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 