 Case Number:  24STCV02282    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  26 07/15/2024
Dept. 26
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SANCHEZ v. UNITE EUROTHERAPY, INC. (24STCV02282)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Scott J.
Ferrell
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Melissa W. Woo
 
motion TO STRIKE (filed 03/07/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Unite Eurotherapy, Inc.’s motion to strike paragraph 30 and
prayer for relief, paragraph (a) is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Monica Sanchez (“Plaintiff”)
brought this California Invasion of Privacy Act (“CIPA”) action against
Defendant Unite Eurotherapy, Inc. dba www.unitehair.com (“Defendant”). 
 
Plaintiff alleges upon visiting Defendant’s website, Defendant
secretly accessed Plaintiff’s device and installed “pen register” and “”trap
and trace” tracking software in violation of California law without her
knowledge or consent. 
 
On March 7, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to Strike, arguing:
·                
Plaintiff’s requests for punitive
damages is supported by conclusory allegations, which are deficient;
·                
The statutory penalty under Penal Code
Section 638.51 is Plaintiff’s exclusive remedy; and
·                
Plaintiff does not allege any facts
supporting or showing entitlement to attorneys’ fees.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·                
The
Complaint alleges conduct intended by Defendant to cause injury to Plaintiff;
·                
The
Complaint alleges despicable conduct;
·                
It is
reasonable to infer from the Complaint’s allegations that Defendant’s employees
formulated a policy to allow spyware onto its website to unlawfully track
visitors’ online browsing;
·                
Plaintiff
is allowed to seek to recover both punitive and statutory penalties at the
pleading stage under Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253; and 
·                
Plaintiff’s
request for attorneys’ fees under the private attorney general statute, i.e.,
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021.5 should not be stricken.
As of July 12, 2024, no reply brief has
been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Strike 
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but
this time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
 
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. 
 
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)
 
B.      Meet and
Confer 
 
Prior to filing a motion to strike, the moving party is required
to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)¿¿¿
 
Here, Defendant advances the declaration of its counsel of record,
Melissa W. Woo, attesting to attempted meet and confer efforts prior to filing
the instant motion. Woo declares that she contacted Plaintiff’s counsel to meet
and confer about the contents of the motion and requested an extension to
respond in order to facilitate the meet and confer process. (Woo Decl., ¶2.)
Woo further states that Plaintiff’s counsel denied her request for an
extension. (Id.)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has not fulfilled the
meet and confer requirement. However, Defendant did attempt to meet and confer.
As such, the Court will exercise its discretion and rule on the merits below. 
 
C.      Analysis
 
Defendant
moves to strike paragraph 30 and prayer for relief, paragraph (a) on the grounds that
the Complaint does not support a request for punitive damages and attorneys’
fees. Furthermore, Defendant contends that statutory penalties are Plaintiff’s
exclusive remedy, thus she cannot request punitive damages. 
 
1.                 
Punitive Damages
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under
Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that
the¿defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive
damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any
factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the
facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted
with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)¿¿¿ 
 
¿“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as
“conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in
section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term
“despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847,
891.)¿¿“Fraud” is defined in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿ 
 
To prove that a defendant acted with “willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to
prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege
facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and
reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90).
Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude
that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or
contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 704, 725.)¿ 
 
Here, the Complaint states sufficient facts to
support Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. The Complaint alleges when
Plaintiff visited Defendant’s website, Defendant secretly accessed Plaintiff’s
device and installed spy tracking software. (Compl., at 2:2-23; ¶¶18-25;
28-30.) The Complaint further alleges the tracking spyware embedded at least
one PR/TT beacon to discover the identity and geolocation of every website
visitor. (Id.) The Complaint also alleges that this type of conduct is
prohibited without first obtaining a court order under California Penal Code
Section 638.51. (Id.) As such, a reasonable jury could conclude that
Defendant’s conduct of engaging in purported criminal activity is vile or
contemptible. A reasonable jury could also conclude Defendant’s conduct of
intentionally  invading consumers privacy
without their knowledge or consent was done with willful and conscious
disregard to the privacy rights of their website visitors. 
 
Therefore, the motion is DENIED on the punitive
damages ground.
 
2.                 
Statutory Damages 
 
California Penal Code Section 638.51, provides in pertinent part, “Except
as provided in subdivision (b), a person may not install or use a pen register
or a trap and trace device without first obtaining a court order pursuant to
Section 638.52 or 638.53.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 638.51(a).) “A violation of this
section is punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500), or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year, or by
imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 638.51(c).)
 
Under Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, the court held where the complaint alleges sufficient facts
for both common law invasion of privacy and a statutory wiretapping violations
under Penal Code Section 637.2(a), plaintiffs were entitled to seek both
punitive damages and statutory penalties. (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256.) Furthermore, the Clauson
court stated, “Once the verdict is returned, plaintiffs, if they prevail, may
then elect whether to accept the Penal Code section 637.2, subdivision (a)
statutory penalties or the punitive damages award.” (Id.) This present
case is similar to the issue addressed in Clauson. 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks both punitive damages and
statutory penalties under Penal Code Section 637.2(a). (Compl., at 9:6-7, ¶31.)
However, Clauson is binding authority in California and stands for the
proposition that Plaintiff can in fact in the pleading stage request both
statutory penalties and punitive damages. By contrast, the cases cited by
Defendant do not address Penal Code Section 637.2(a). (Mot. at 7:6-21.)
 
Therefore, the statutory penalty under Penal Code
Section 637.2(a) is not Plaintiff’s exclusive remedy at this time. 
 
3.                 
Attorney Fees
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021.5, states
in pertinent part, “Upon motion, a court may award attorneys’ fees to a
successful party against one or more opposing parties in any action which has
resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest
if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been
conferred on the general public or a large class of persons, (b) the necessity
and financial burden of private enforcement, or of enforcement by one public
entity against another public entity, are such as to make the award
appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of justice be paid
out of the recovery, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.5.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges the right to
privacy is a legally protected interest. (Compl., ¶6-8.) Furthermore, the
Complaint alleges Plaintiff brings forth this action to enforce her right to
privacy under CIPA and other California website users. (Compl., ¶¶26-31.) As
such, if Plaintiff ultimately prevails in this action, she may be awarded
attorneys’ fees in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021.5. 
 
Therefore, the motion is DENIED on the
attorneys’ fees ground. 
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
Based on the foregoing,
Defendant Unite Eurotherapy, Inc.’s motion to strike is DENIED. 