 Case Number:  23NWCV03907    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  C Defendant Newport Diversified Inc.’s Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED.Defendant to give notice.BackgroundThis is a negligence action that arose from an accident that occurred on December 5, 2021. On December 4, 2023, Plaintiffs Elodia Contreras and Felipe Contreras(“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Santa Fe Springs Swap Meet, Newport Diversified Inc., and Does 1 to 25.On August 9, 2024, the Court deemed this case related to Manuel Chavez v. Santa Fe Springs (Case No. 23NWCV03907). The related case was also filed on December 4, 2023 against the same Defendants.On July 18, 2024, Defendant Newport Diversified Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against Online Commerce Group, LLC and McGlon Properties, Inc. in both cases. On September 30, 2024, Cross-Defendant McGlon Properties, Inc. was dismissed from both cases.Defendant Newport Diversified Inc. (“Defendant”) now moves to consolidate both cases.On January 16, 2025, Defendant filed a Notice of Non-Opposition.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (a) states the following: “When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subdivision (a), states the following:“(1) a notice of motion to consolidate must:(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and(C) Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated.(2) The motion to consolidate:(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case;(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and(C) Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.¿”¿¿“Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different department, have been¿related¿into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.” (LASC Local Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1).)¿DiscussionDefendant notes that the actions were filed by the same law firm, Page & Nguyen, APC, on the same day. Defendant argues the two cases should be consolidated because they are pending before the same court and arise out of common questions of law and fact. Both actions assert a single cause of action for negligence. Each action arises out of the same incident, in which the Plaintiffs sat on an unscrewed picnic table maintained by Defendants and fell backwards, sustaining injuries. Defendant argues that consolidating the case would avoid unnecessary cost and delays for the Court and all parties.Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition.The Court finds the two cases involve common issues of fact and law. Both cases involve a single action for negligence against the same Defendants, arising out of an incident involving Plaintiffs in both cases. (See Gleason Decl., ¶ 3, Exhs. A, B.) Further, the Court has deemed these actions related. (See Gleason Decl., ¶ 4, Exhs. C, D) The two matters involve much of the same discovery and overlapping testimony. Consolidating the two matters will preserve judicial economy.