  Case Number:  23STCP00972    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  61 Petitioner Antoine Souma’s and
Respondents Respondents Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC and Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney Financing LLC’s Motions to File Under Seal are GRANTED.
 
Petitioner Antoine Souma’s Petition
to Vacate Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
 
Respondents Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney LLC and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Financing LLC’s Motion to Confirm
Arbitration Award is DENIED.
 
I.                  
MOTIONS TO SEAL
 
The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if
it expressly finds facts that establish:
 
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record; 
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
 
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.
 
(California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule
2.550, subd. (d).) 
 
A party moving to
seal records must make a sufficient evidentiary showing to overcome the
presumed right of public access to the documents. (see Huffy Corp. v.
Superior Court (“Huffy”) (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 97, 108.)
 
Petitioner Antoine Souma and Respondent Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney LLC both move to file under seal unredacted copies of the moving papers
and declarations discussing the terms of a confidential settlement agreement
between the parties.  
 
Courts have found that confidentiality provisions in
settlement agreements have been found to support an overriding interest in
favor of sealing records. (See Universal
City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
1273, 1283.) These courts have also found that this interest does not justify
sealing documents absent a “specific showing of serious injury” resulting from
the failure to seal. (McNair v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 25, 35; Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1282.) 
 
Here, the motions to seal are supported by the declaration
of Wendy R. Robinson, executive director of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in the
law and compliance division, who testifies that the terms of the settlement
agreement here are subject to provisions of confidentiality, which Respondent
negotiates for in its settlement agreements in order to preserve the
confidentiality of the personal details contained in such agreements, as well
as to maintain Respondent’s ability to negotiate settlements in future disputes
with its employees. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 2–3.) The parties have shown that an
overriding interest in the confidentiality of the documents exists, which will
be prejudiced if they are not permitted to be filed under seal.
 
The motions to seal are
therefore GRANTED.
 
II.               
PETITION
TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD
Courts may vacate an arbitration award under the following circumstances:
(1) The award was procured by corruption,
fraud or other undue means.
. . .
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their powers and
the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon
the controversy submitted.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2,
subd. (a)(1), (4).)
California
public policy supports the use of private arbitration to resolve disputes. To
promote this alternative means of dispute resolution, the law minimizes
judicial intervention in the proceedings, in part, by the doctrine of arbitral
finality. Thus, the general rule is that ‘an arbitrator's decision cannot be
reviewed for errors of fact or law. Both because it vindicates the intentions
of the parties that the award be final, and because an arbitrator is not
ordinarily constrained to decide according to the rule of law, it is the
general rule that, [t]he merits of the controversy between the parties are not
subject to judicial review. More specifically, courts will not review the
validity of the arbitrator's reasoning. Further, a court may not review the
sufficiency of the evidence supporting an arbitrator's award.”
 
(Jones v. Humanscale Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 401,
407–408, internal citations, quotation marks, and alterations omitted.)
Petitioner Antoine Souma
(Petitioner) seeks to vacate the underlying arbitration award against him, in
the amount of $6.39 million, on the grounds that the arbitrators exceeded their
powers by enforcing a liquidated damages provision with the practical effect of
an unenforceable penalty under Civil Code § 1671. Petitioner relies on the case
Honchariw v. FJM Private Mortgage Fund, LLC (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 893,
901, which held that “an arbitrator may exceed their powers by enforcing a
contract that is in violation of public policy,” and thus that an arbitrator’s
decision to enforce a provision over a challenge founded upon Civil Code § 1671
is subject to “de novo review.” Respondents Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC and
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Financing LLC (Respondents) present no contrary
authority, and thus the court shall assess whether Civil Code § 1671 bars the
award.
“[A] provision in a contract
liquidating the damages for the breach of the contract is valid unless the
party seeking to invalidate the provision establishes that the provision was
unreasonable under the circumstances existing at the time the contract was
made.” (Civ. Code, § 1671, subd. (b).) An exception exists under this provision
for consumer contracts or residential leases. (Civ. Code § 1671, subd. (c).)
Otherwise, the statute carries a “presumption that liquidated damage
provisions in nonconsumer contracts are valid,” and thus “the party challenging
the provision bears the burden to show the provision was unreasonable under the
circumstances existing when the parties entered into the contract.” (Honchariw,
supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 901.)
 
The underlying facts are as follows. Until July 2020,
Petitioner was an employee of Respondents. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 2–3.) During his
employment, Petitioner signed two promissory notes by which Respondents agreed
to loan him $9.5 million and $1.1 million. (Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 4–5.) The notes
contained provisions requiring the repayment of the outstanding balance, plus
interest, if Plaintiff’s employment was terminated. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 6.)
Respondents filed a FINRA arbitration claim against Petitioner in November
2020, seeking payment of the amounts owed after Petitioner’s employment
terminated. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 10.) Petitioner filed counterclaims, which in the
ultimate arbitration award are described as claims for defamation, promissory
fraud, negligent misrepresentation, tortious and negligent interference with
economic advantage, breach of contract, ERISA violations, unfair competition,
violation of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violation of
FINRA Rule 2010. (Vanecek Decl. Exh. A.) Both Petitioner and Respondents were
represented by counsel. (Vanecek Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
The parties temporarily resolved the above dispute by a
confidential settlement agreement entered in March 2022. (Souma Decl. ¶ 3.)
That settlement agreement provided a mutual release of claims, as well as for
Petitioner’s payment of a substantially lesser amount than the amount claimed
to be owed under the notes. (Vanecek Decl. Exh. B.) That settlement included
recitals as to the “total loan balance” owed by Petitioner under the notes.
(Vanecek Decl. Exh. B at p. 1.) The parties agreed to a payment schedule for
the discounted settlement amount, but also agreed that in the event of a
default, Petitioner would be liable for “principal, interest, through March 11,
2022 plus fees and costs incurred up to that date in collecting [Petitioner’s]
obligation under the Notes, including attorneys’ fees,” as well as interest
from the date of the settlement’s execution, less amounts paid by Petitioner
pursuant to the agreement. (Vanecek Decl. Exh. B, ¶ 6b.) The settlement
agreement also included an “affidavit and confession of judgment” executed by
Petitioner, in which he stated that as of the date of the settlement’s
execution, he owes “the sum of $7,865,991 under the terms of the Notes,
including interest through that date and costs and fees, including attorneys’
fees, incurred by Plaintiffs in collecting the amount due.” (Vanecek Decl. Exh.
B (Exhibit C to Agreement).)
 
Petitioner claims not to have defaulted under the settlement
agreement, but Respondents in July 2022 returned to arbitration, claiming
default in the payments and seeking entry of the substantially higher default
award provided for in the settlement agreement. (Souma Decl. ¶ 4; Lewitas Decl.
¶ 3.) The arbitration hearing was held on October 26, 2022. (Lewitas Decl. ¶
7.) The award was rendered in Respondents’ favor on March 7, 2023, in the
amount of $6,390,991.00, representing the amount owed on the date of the
settlement agreement’s execution, less payments made by Petitioner through
January 2023. (Petition Att. 8(c).) 
 
Petitioner argues that by entering
the award according to the default provisions of the settlement agreement, the
arbitrators exceeded their powers in violation of Civil Code § 1671. (Motion at
p. 15.) Petitioner relies on cases invalidating liquidated damages provisions
in settlement agreements that purported to impose larger, original liabilities
in the event of a default on a discounted settlement payment. (Motion at pp.
15–16.) These cases include Greentree Financial Group, Inc. v. Execute
Sports, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 495, and Purcell v. Schweitzer
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 969. 
In Greentree, the plaintiff sued a defendant for
breach of a contract to pay the plaintiff $45,000. (Greentree, supra,
163 Cal.App.4th at p. 498.) The parties settled, and the defendant
agreed to pay a total $20,000, over a two-payment schedule. (Ibid.) But
if the defendant defaulted, he agreed to immediately have judgment entered “for
all amounts prayed” in the plaintiff’s complaint. (Ibid.) No payments
were made, and judgment was entered in the amount of $45,000, plus prejudgment
interest, fees, and costs. (Ibid.) On appeal, the court reversed the
judgment under Civil Code § 1671, reasoning that the stipulated default
judgment operated as a penalty, because the $45,000 judgment did not represent
a reasonable estimate of the damages resulting from the defendant’s breach of
the settlement agreement: “Greentree argues the amount set forth in the
stipulation was reasonably related to the damages it suffered as a result of
ESI's breach of the underlying contract. But the breach we are analyzing is the
breach of the stipulation, not the breach of the underlying
contract.” (Id. at p. 499.) The court reasoned that the judgment
ultimately entered against the defendant, in an amount exceeding $60,000, “result[ed]
in a penalty assessment of approximately $40,000 more than the total $20,000
due under the stipulation,” and bore “no relationship to any actual damages
that might flow from [the defendant]s failure to make the first installment
payment.” (Id. at p. 501.)  The
court further reasoned that the stipulation to settle for a lesser amount
contained no admission of liability, and “[t]he lack of a guarantee of success
at trial may explain, at least in part, why [the plaintiff] was willing to
accept in settlement less than half the amount demanded in the complaint.” (Id.
at p. 500.) Thus the court directed the judgment to be reversed and remanded to
the trial court with instructions “to reduce the judgment against [the
defendant] to $20,000, plus postjudgment interest and costs.” (Id. at p.
503.)
The Purcell case is
similar. There, the plaintiff sued the defendant on a defaulted promissory
note, seeking to recover the amounts owed. (Purcell, supra, 224
Cal.App.4th at p. 971.) The parties settled, and the defendant
agreed to pay $38,000, with interest, over 24 months. (Id. at p. 972.)
The agreement included a provision that if the defendant defaulted, “a judgment
for the full amount of ]the defendant]’s original liability of $85,000 could be
entered against him.” (Ibid.) The settlement contained an averment that
the $85,000 “is an agreed upon amount of monies actually owed, jointly
and severally, by the Defendant . . . to the Plaintiff.” (Id. at p.972.)
After the defendant defaulted on a payment, judgment
was entered against him according to the terms of the settlement, in the amount
of $58,839.35. (Id. at p. 973.) The trial court, however, granted a
motion brought by the defendant to vacate the default judgment as violative of
Civil Code § 1671, which the appellate court affirmed. (Ibid.) The
appellate court cited Greentree, reasoning that “the relevant
breach to be analyzed “is the breach of the stipulation, not the breach of the underlying
contract.” (Id. at p. 975.) The court held, “the stipulation that allowed
for entry of judgment in the amount of almost $60,000 was likewise an unenforceable penalty because the underlying settlement was for
$38,000. The stipulation bore no reasonable relationship to the damages
that it could be expected that [the plaintiff] would suffer as a result of a
breach by [the defendant].” (Id. at p. 976.)
 
Petitioner likens the present case to those above. Whatever
Petitioner’s obligations under the original promissory notes, the amount to be
paid under the settlement agreement of March 2022 was substantially discounted
from the amount actually owed. The provision requiring the entry of judgment in
the amount of the actual indebtedness alleged in Respondents’ underlying
collection claims operate, Petitioner argues, as impermissible penalties,
because they have no relation to the settlement amount or to the damages
suffered by Respondents from the late receipt of individual payments under the
settlement payment plan. (Motion at pp. 16–21.)
 
Respondents in opposition present
cases with holdings inconsistent with the above authority, specifically Gormley
v. Gonzalez (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 72, 89, and  Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. v. Imani
(2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 131, 135. (Opposition at pp. 9–11.)
In Gormley, several medical malpractice plaintiffs
settled with the defendants for a total payment of $575,000 in two
installments, with the proviso that a default would result in the entry of
judgment in the amount of $50,000 per month, up to a cap of $1.5 million. (Gormley,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 76.) After default, the
plaintiffs sought to enter judgment, which the trial court did in the amount of
$1.39 million. (Ibid.) When the defendants appealed, arguing that the
judgment violated Civil Code § 1671, subd. (b)’s prohibition on liquidated
damages provisions that operate as penalties, the appellate court rejected the
argument and affirmed the judgment. (Ibid.) The court quoted at length
the commentary provided with the revision of section 1671 in 1977, discussing
“the circumstances” relevant to a court’s determination of whether a given
clause was an unreasonable penalty:
All the circumstances existing at the time of
the making of the contract are considered, including the relationship that the
damages provided in the contract bear to the range of harm that reasonably
could be anticipated at the time of the making of the contract. Other relevant
considerations in the determination of whether the amount of liquidated damages
is so high or so low as to be unreasonable include, but are not limited to,
such matters as the relative equality of the bargaining power of the parties,
whether the parties were represented by lawyers at the time the contract was
made, the anticipation of the parties that proof of actual damages would be
costly or inconvenient, the difficulty of proving causation and foreseeability,
and whether the liquidated damages provision is included in a form contract.
(Id. at p. 81.)
The court noted that the only evidence concerning the
circumstances of the contract’s formation consisted of the agreement itself and
the declaration of the plaintiffs’ counsel, who testified that the plaintiffs
had estimated a low potential for genuine recovery against the defendants,
given the poor insurance coverage they had, and thus prioritized the prompt
payment of a lesser settlement amount, with the penalty provision included to
insure prompt payment. (Id. at pp. 85–86.) The defendants were represented
by counsel throughout, and several drafts of the settlement agreement were
exchanged before agreement was reached.. (Id. at pp. 77–78.)
The court distinguished Greentree,
reasoning that its reliance upon the damages from breach of stipulation, rather
than the underlying damages in the contract claim, stemmed from the lack of
evidence supporting the contention that the Greentree plaintiff could
have recovered all amounts assertedly owed at trial. (Id. at p. 87.) By
contrast, the amounts for which the Gormley plaintiffs obtained judgment
was within the bounds of their trial recovery: “We find nothing
unreasonable about parties (particularly represented parties) agreeing to
settle a lawsuit for a steep discount, and also agreeing that if the settlement
amount is not paid, judgment will be entered on the amount the parties
estimated would have been recovered at trial..” (Id. at p. 86.)
 
The Gormley court cited
with approval the decision in Imani, decided two months earlier. (Id.
at p. 87.) In Imani, a plaintiff sued a defendant on an unlawful
detainer claim, seeking damages of unpaid rent amounting to $257,546.17. (Imani,
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 134.) The parties settled before
trial, and the defendant agreed to pay $30,000.00 in 24 monthly payments, on
the condition that if a default occurred, the plaintiff could obtain judgment
in the total amount owed. (Id. at p. 134.) A default occurred, and
judgment was entered in the amount of $251,200.13. (Id. at p. 134–135.)
The appellate court upheld this result against a challenge under Civil Code §
1671, stating, “We cannot isolate the relevant breach of contract as only the
breach of settlement agreement or stipulation for entry of judgment and
excluding the underlying contract. Here, the $251,200.13 damage provision in the stipulation for entry of
judgment is not arbitrarily drawn from thin air. It is the actual and
stipulated amount of damages.” (Id. at p. 136.) The court distinguished Greentree,
reasoning that the case involved “disputed claims,” while the defendant before
them “admitted owing the $251,200.13 as unpaid rent, i.e. damages.” (Id.
at p. 137.) 
The weight of authority is against Respondents. The primary
basis of distinction offered in Gormley and Imani was the
undisputed nature of the damages suffered by the plaintiffs seeking the
implementation of the judgment, and yet neither court addressed Purcell,
which declined to enforce a liquidated damages clause in a settlement agreement
for an amount the parties agreed was “actually owed.” (Purcell, supra,
224 Cal. App.4th at p. 972.) The primary basis for the holdings of
these cases was the decision to gauge the section 1671 evaluation, not by the
damage to be suffered from a breach of the settlement agreement, but by the
damages claimed in the underlying litigation. And yet in this respect, the
holdings of Greentree, Purcell, and others are expressly to the
contrary: the primary assessment is the relationship between the amount of
liquidated damages and the default that activates them, not the damages
suffered in the underlying litigation: “[T]he breach we are analyzing is the
breach of the stipulation, not the breach of the underlying
contract.” (Greentree, supra, 163 Cal.App.4th at p.
499; see also Vitatech Internat., Inc. v. Sporn (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th
796, 809 [same].) Indeed, the continuing primacy of the relationship between
the liquidated damages and the reasonably anticipated damages to result from
breach was endorsed by the California Supreme Court in Ridgley v. Topa Thrift
& Loan Association (1998) 17 Cal.4th 970, 977:
A liquidated damages clause will generally be
considered unreasonable, and hence unenforceable under section 1671(b), if it
bears no reasonable relationship to the range of actual damages that the
parties could have anticipated would flow from a breach. The amount set as
liquidated damages must represent the result of a reasonable endeavor by the
parties to estimate a fair average compensation for any loss that may be
sustained. In the absence of such relationship, a contractual clause purporting
to predetermine damages must be construed as a penalty.
(Ridgley
v. Topa Thrift & Loan Ass'n (1998) 17 Cal.4th 970, 977, internal
quotation marks and citations omitted.)
 
Here,
there is a large, facial gap between the damages sought to be imposed upon
Petitioner and those reasonably anticipated to result from the failure to make
timely payments under the settlement plan. Even if the amounts remaining owed
under the original promissory notes were undisputed — and Petitioner disputes
this, as the settlement agreement disposed not only of Respondents’ initial
collection claims but also of Petitioner’s counterclaims (Motion at pp. 9–10;
Vanecek Decl. Exh. B) — this would not render the imposition of this amount
justified under Civil Code § 1671, because it would constitute the imposition
of a  penalty for a default in payment
under a new and different agreement. The gross disparity in the damages
reasonably anticipated to result from late payments, and the liquidated damages
that Respondents here seek to impose, warrants the determination that the
liquidated damages provision at issue is a penalty under Civil Code § 1671, and
therefore unenforceable.
 
Respondents argue that even if the court is inclined to
find that the default judgment amount is unenforceable, the court should
instead confirm the arbitration award in the lesser, total amount that the
parties agreed to in their settlement. (Motion at p. 7.) However, the authority
that Respondents rely upon is inapposite, as the courts in those cases directed
that judgments be entered for the full amounts due under the settlement
agreement, which had already become owed. (See Red & White Distribution,
LLC v. Osteroid Enterprises, LLC (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 582, 585
[installment payments to be made between December 2014 and December 2015, when
case was decided in August 2019].)[1]
The payment schedule provided for in the settlement agreement here,
however,  has not run its course, and not
all of the settlement amount has yet come due. (Vanecek Decl. Exh. B.)
Accordingly, Petitioner’s motion to vacate the arbitration
award is GRANTED. Respondents’ motion to confirm the award is DENIED.


