  Case Number:  22SMCV02758    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Homerin v. Equinox Fitness Culver
City, Inc. Case no. 22SMCV02758
Hearing date October 15, 2024
Defendant
Equinox’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Plaintiff
Homerin sues defendants Equinox Fitness Culver City and Stages Cycling, LLC for
negligence and products liability claims arising out of injuries sustained
while participating in an indoor cycling class. Plaintiff alleges an Equinox
employee negligently failed to properly secure the toe-cage on her bike,
causing it to come loose, injuring her. 
Equinox
moves for summary judgment, arguing plaintiff signed an express waiver of
liability and assumed the risk, barring her claim. 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice of the TAC
Defendant
Equinox requests judicial notice of the third amended complaint, filed
7/21/2023. The court may take judicial notice of its own files when requested
pursuant to Evid. Code §452(d)(1). GRANTED.
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
to Voris Declaration
Defendant
Equinox files 32 evidentiary objections to plaintiff’s declaration of Harvey
Voris. Objections 1-8 OVERULED, objection 9-10 GRANTED (hearsay), objections
11-32 OVERULED.
Plaintiff’s Request for Relief from
Untimely Filing of Opposition
Plaintiff’s
opposition was filed one day late. Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration,
asserting the delay was due to technology failure on the eve of the filing
deadline. Decl. Eballar para. 11. 
Equinox
argues the opposition should be disregarded as untimely. Equinox had sufficient
time to prepare a reply, filed 10/2/2024. There is not significant prejudice
due to the one-day delay, and plaintiff offered a reasonable explanation as to
the brief delay. The court will consider plaintiff’s opposition on its merits.
To do otherwise would be an unduly harsh result. If defendant suffered prejudice
due to the one-day delay, the court will hear argument or consider a one-day
continuance to allow defendant to have the full statutory time to reply.
Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgement
A
court determining a summary judgment motion applies a three-step process: (1)
identifying the issues framed by the complaint, (2) determining whether moving
party made an adequate showing that negates the opponent’s claim, and (3)
determining whether opposing party raised a triable issue of fact. Bostrom
v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1662. "In
order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must allege
facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to use due
care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury." Bellah
v. Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619. 
Defendant
argues the negligence claim is barred by an express waiver of liability, and plaintiff
assumed the inherent primary risk of indoor cycling. Both parties agree
plaintiff attended an indoor cycling class and that indoor cycling carries
inherent risks. SSAMF 1-2. Equinox argues plaintiff expressly assumed the risk
by signing a liability waiver. UMF 4-8. Equinox also argues plaintiff was an experienced
indoor bike rider. Plaintiff disputes the existence of the waiver and argues
Equinox employee teacher Amy Robertson substantially increased the risk of
injury to plaintiff, defeating primary assumption of the risk. SSAMF 4-7.
Express Waiver of Liability
An
express release of liability is enforceable so long as it is clear, unambiguous
and explicit in expressing the parties’ intent. Sweat v. Big Time Auto
Racing, Inc. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1304-05. “A valid release
precludes liability for risks of injury within the scope of the release.” Grebing
v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 631, 637. 
Equinox
argues plaintiff digitally signed a liability waiver. UMF 4-8. This creates a
triable issue of material fact as to waiver and shifts the burden to plaintiff.

Plaintiff
disputes knowledge of, and signature of, a waiver. SSAMF 4-7. Plaintiff asserts
Equinox conducted a search, including a search of its national corporate
database, and is unable to locate a waiver signed by plaintiff. PMF 9.
Plaintiff asserts she never saw nor signed a waiver. PMF 7. Plaintiff argues
she presented a photo ID and signed in using an electronic signature sensor.
PMF. 7. Plaintiff raised a triable issue of material fact regarding existence
of a signed waiver. 
Inherent Assumption of Primary Risk
Equinox
argues even if the express waiver does not bar a negligence claim, plaintiff
assumed the primary risk of indoor cycling. The "assumption of the
risk" doctrine provides an exception to the general duty of care when a
plaintiff is injured while voluntarily participating in a sporting activity
that has inherent risks. See Luna v. Vela (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th
102, 108. 
The
primary assumption of the risk doctrine states that if a plaintiff voluntarily
participates in an activity or sport that includes various inherent risks, defendant
is relieved of the duty of due care to avoid plaintiff from suffering an injury
due to those inherently risky aspects of the sport. See, e.g., Knight
v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 308-309, fns. 3-4, 315-316. The parties do
not dispute that plaintiff voluntarily participated in the class, nor do the
parties dispute indoor cycling has inherent risks. SSAMF 1-2. 
The
declaration of fitness instructor Amy Robertson states indoor cycling carries
inherent risks, such as muscle soreness, knee/back pain, foot
numbness/tingling, dehydration and slipping off pedals if feet are not properly
secured. UMF 2; Decl. Robertson para. 4. Equinox asserts plaintiff’s injury
occurred as a result of her foot slipping off the pedal, an inherent risk of
indoor cycling. Equinox provides evidence that injuries similar to plaintiff’s
are inherent to the activity. This is sufficient to meet the initial burden; the
burden shifts to plaintiff to show a triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff
argues her injury did not arise from her foot slipping off a pedal, but from the
bike’s left toe cage separating from the bike and taking her foot with it. PMF
13, 14. Plaintiff argues a component of the bike falling off is not an inherent
risk of indoor cycling. The declaration of engineer Harvey Voris, a fitness
machine designer and engineer, states the injury could arise as alleged and would
be the instructor’s responsibility to prevent. Decl. Voris paras. 17-18.
Plaintiff
also argues teacher Robertson increased the risk of harm to plaintiff. A
defendant who substantially or unreasonably increases the inherent risk of an
activity is liable for gross negligence, even if a waiver exists. Willhide-Michiulis
v. Mammoth Mountain Ski Area, LLC (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 344, 358. 
Plaintiff
asserts she asked Robertson for help securing the left toe cage. PMF 10. Plaintiff
asserts Robertson failed to properly warn her of potential risks prior to
beginning the activity. PMF 20. Per the Voris declaration, Robertson failed to properly
secure the toe cage, resulting in injury. Decl. Voris para. 29.
Plaintiff
argues Robertson undertook responsibility for the safety of newer and
inexperienced class participants when she specifically targeted and repeatedly
reassured those invited to her class “DO NOT stress” because she will “get them
all set up.” PMF 4; Decl. Robertson ex. 4. Plaintiff further argues Robertson’s
actions increased the risk by improperly securing the toe cage. Plaintiff
established a triable issue of material fact as to whether Robertson substantially
increased the risk of harm to plaintiff, creating a triable issue of fact.
DENIED.