  Case Number:  23STCV14000    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



TAMI SOLONDZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
QUINN STEPHEN JOSEPH DBA MINI OF SANTA MONICA, TRAVELERS
  CASUALTY AND SURETY COMPANY OF AMERICA, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV14000
 Hearing Date:   2/21/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Tami
  Solondz’s Motion for Order Authorizing Substituted Service on Secretary of
  State.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Tami Solondz sues
Defendants Quinn Stephen Joseph dba Mini of Santa Monica, Travelers Casualty
and Surety Company of America, and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a June 16,
2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies
Act, (2) Negligent Misrepresentation, (3) Breach of Warranty of Title, (4)
Violation of Vehicle Code § 5753, (5) Breach of Contract, and (6) Violation of
Vehicle Code § 11711, et seq.
Motion Before the Court
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff
Solondz filed a motion for an order authorizing substituted service on the
California Secretary of State in lieu of service on Quinn Stephen Joseph dba
Mini of Santa Monica (the Dealership), whose registered agent for service of
process cannot be located.
The motion was served on the
Dealership at 1402 Santa Monica Blvd., Santa Monica, California 90404 and on
counsel for Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America.
The Dealership failed to oppose
this motion, which is now before the Court.
 
Motion Approving Substituted Service
Legal
Standard
If
[1] a corporation’s agent designated for service of process has resigned but
has not been replaced, cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address
designated for personally delivering the process, or has not been designated,
and [2] it is shown by affidavit that the domestic corporation cannot be served
in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure sections 415.10, 415.20, 416.10, or
416.20, then “the court may make an order that the service be made upon the
corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person
employed in the Secretary of State’s office in the capacity of assistant or
deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together with
a copy of the order authorizing such service.” (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).)
“Service
in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day of delivery of the process to
the Secretary of State.” (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).)
Order
Authorizing Substituted Service: GRANTED.
Here,
Plaintiff Solondz provides unopposed evidence to show that Plaintiff has been
unable to locate the Dealership’s registered agent for service of process.
Specifically, Plaintiff shows that (1) the Dealership ceased operating sometime
around January 2023, for which reason Plaintiff has been unable to locate the
registered agent for service of process, and (2) the California Secretary of
State website fails to show a registered agent for service of process for “Mini
of Santa Monica,” the Dealership’s dba. (See Mot., pp. 4-8; see also Mot.,
Mankin Decl., ¶¶ 1-10, Exs. A-F [copies of [A] the vehicle’s purchase
agreement, [B] the California Department of Motor Vehicles OLSIS page for the
Dealership, [C] printouts of California Secretary of State searches for “Quinn
Stephen Joseph” and “Mini of Santa Monica,” [D] a printout of a Yelp review for
the Dealership showing the Dealership ceased operations, [E] a printout of the
Dealership’s Facebook page showing the Dealership ceased operations in January
2023, [F] printout of Superior Court records search for “Quinn Stephen” or
“Mini of Santa Monica,” and [G] printout for website of Santa Monica Lincoln, showing
this business now operates out of the premises previously used by the
Dealership].)
Plaintiff
Solondz also provides unopposed evidence to show a failure to serve the
Dealership pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 415.10, 415.20, 416.10,
or 416.20. (See Mot., Mankin Decl., ¶¶ 1-10 [explaining attempts to find manner
to serve the Dealership but failing to find registered agent for service of
process under circumstances where the Dealership is not listed in California
Secretary of State business records and has ceased operating out of the address
where Plaintiff purchase the subject vehicle].)
Plaintiff’s
motion is therefore GRANTED. 

Conclusion
Plaintiff Tami Solondz’s Motion for Order Authorizing Substituted Service
on Secretary of State is GRANTED.