

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 19, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandro Diaz (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Poke Pub Corp (“PPC”), June Choe aka June Sin Choe (“Choe”)
and Does 1 through 10 alleging a single cause of action for Violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act. 
 
On January
31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, which identified Defendant
Hillcrest Development Partners, LLC (“Hillcrest”) as Doe 6. 
 
On
February 15, 2024, default was entered against Defendants PPC and Choe. 
 
On March
15, 2024, Defendant Hillcrest filed an Answer to the Complaint.  
 
On May
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant Motion to Compel Defendant
Hillcrest’s Answers to Interrogatories (the “Motion”). Pursuant to the Motion,
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant Hillcrest and its
counsel of record in the sum of $500.00. 
 
On June
21, 2024, Defendant Hillcrest filed an opposition to the Motion. The opposition
is late as it was not filed and served at least nine court days prior to the
hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).) Exercising its discretion, the Court will still
consider the belatedly filed opposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).)

 
As of
June 28, 2024, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant Hillcrest has failed to serve verified answers to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Numbers 1-4. Plaintiff argues that Defendant
Hillcrest should be compelled to provide verified answers thereto. Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant Hillcrest and its counsel should be sanctioned in
the sum of $500.00.  
 
OPPOSITION

 
            In
opposition to the Motion, Defendant Hillcrest presents the declaration of its
counsel who declares that verified responses were served on June 21, 2024.
(Ahluwalia Decl., ¶ 2.)  
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
filed as of July 2, 2024.   
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Compelling
Responses      
A.               
Legal Standard 
“Within 30 days after service of
interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall
serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on
motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response,
or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for
response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).)  If the party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to
whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option
to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).) “The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  
Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is
“[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
“[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery.” A court has discretion to “impose a
monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process or any attorney advising such conduct” under Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.
 
B.        Discussion 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Morse Mehrban
(“Mehrban”), declares that on March 18, 2024, his office served Defendant
Hillcrest with Plaintiff’s first set of special interrogatories. (Mehrban
Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A.) Counsel states that he has not received verified responses
thereto. (Mehrban Decl., ¶ 4.) Counsel’s hourly billing rate is $500.00 per
hour, and he has spent no less than one (1) hour preparing the instant motion.
(Mehrban Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Given that Defendant Hillcrest’s
counsel declares that verified responses were served on Plaintiff’s counsel on
June 21, 2024 (Ahluwalia Decl., ¶ 2), and given that Plaintiff has not filed a
reply brief, the Court assumes that verified responses were, in fact, served.
The Court does note that the purported verified responses are not attached to
the declaration of Mr. Ahluwalia in opposition to the Motion. Thus, the Court
finds that compelling Defendant Hillcrest’s responses to Plaintiff’s special
interrogatories is MOOT. 
Plaintiff, however, had to bring the
instant motion due to Defendant Hillcrest’s failure to provide discovery. As
such, the Court finds that monetary sanctions are appropriate in the amount
requested by Plaintiff. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, the Motion is GRANTED IN PART.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to compel responses of Defendant Hillcrest
to set one of his special interrogatories as MOOT. 
 
            The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions. Defendant Hillcrest and its counsel of record, Jasdeep
S. Ahluwalia, are ORDERED to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the sum of
$500.00, jointly and severally, within 30 days of the date of notice of this
order. 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 