

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April
4, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandro Diaz (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint for Damages
against Defendants American Commercial Equities Three, LLC; Kreation Weho, LLC;
Kreation Juicery, Inc.; Marjan Sarshar (“Defendants”); and DOES 1-10 for a sole
cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act – Civil Code
section 51. 
 
On May
30, 2024, Mills Sadat Dowlat LLP (“Counsel”), counsel of record for Defendants
Kreation Juicery, Inc. and Marjan Sarshar, filed the instant Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel (the “Motions”).
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Relieved
as Counsel       
A.               
Legal Standard 
The court
may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or
after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or attorney
and after notice from one to the other. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(2).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.   
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(a)),
MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(c)), and MC-053
(Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e)). The proposed order must
specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the
date of trial, if known.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
Further, the
requisite forms must be served on the client and all other parties who have
appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) The court may
delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service
of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) A motion to withdraw will not be granted
where withdrawal would prejudice the client. Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.  
B.        Discussion 
The Court finds that while
Counsel has filed the requisite forms pursuant to each of the Motions as
required by Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, the declarations in support of
the Motions merely indicate that Counsel e-mailed Kreation Juicery, Inc. and
Marjan Sarshar, respectively, on February 9, 2024 that Counsel would no longer
be able to represent them in this action and that they should retain new
counsel. Counsel states that it cannot disclose in the publicly filed
declarations why it seeks withdrawal but is prepared to share the reasons with
the Court in camera. 
The Court finds that Counsel is
elusive as to why it is seeking to withdraw as counsel for Defendants Kreation
Juicery, Inc. and Marjan Sarshar. The Court is unsure whether there has been a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship or whether there exist
irreconcilable differences that render representation impossible. 
Without even a generalized basis as to
why Counsel is seeking to withdraw from representation, the Court cannot grant
the Motions. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Counsel Mills Sadat Dowlat LLP’s
Motions to be Relieved as Counsel are DENIED without prejudice. 
 
            Moving Party is ordered to give
notice. 