 Case Number:  23PSCV03069    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Dean Ziroli’s Petition  to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Claims and to Stay Action Respondent: Plaintiff Vida  Arbab Defendant Dean Ziroli’s  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff Vida Arbab’s First Amended Complaint Respondent: Plaintiff Vida  Arbab TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Dean Ziroli’s  Petition to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Claims and to Stay Action is GRANTED. Defendant Dean Ziroli’s  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff Vida Arbab’s First Amended Complaint is DEEMED  MOOT. BACKGROUND This  is an action for fraud and negligence. In April 2016, Defendants Clement Ziroli  and Hacienda Equity Corporation (Hacienda) acquired a property in Los Angeles  County (Subject Property) for short-term investment purposes and transferred  the Subject Property to the Ziroli Trust. Subsequently, Defendants Dean Ziroli,  Clement Ziroli, and Hacienda engaged in renovations of the Subject Property by  adding two additional bedrooms. Plaintiffs Vida Arbab and Jeffrey Nader then  purchased the Subject Property for $1,575,000.00. In June 2023, Arbab and Nader  discovered the renovations had concealed an indoor pool which resulted in  moisture and noxious odors invading the Subject Property. They also allege they  discovered the renovations were unpermitted. On  October 4, 2023, Arbab and Nader filed a complaint against Dean Ziroli,  individually and as trustee of the Ziroli Trust; Clement Ziroli; Hacienda; Bill  Abalos, doing business as Inspection Pro Home Inspectors; and Does 1-100,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraudulent concealment, (2) unjust  enrichment, and (3) negligence. On  March 21, 2024, Arbab and Nader dismissed Abalos from the present action. On  April 8, 2024, Arbab and Nader dismissed their second cause of action for  unjust enrichment from their Complaint which is mislabeled as the “third cause  of action.” On  April 25, 2024, Arbab and Nader dismissed Clement Ziroli and Hacienda from the  Complaint. On  May 13, 2024, the Court sustained a demurrer by Dean Ziroli to the Complaint  with leave to amend. On  May 24, 2024, Arbab filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Dean Ziroli  and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraudulent  representation, (2) fraudulent concealment, (3) negligent concealment, and (4)  negligence. On  June 24, 2024, Dean Ziroli filed the present motion to strike and motion to  compel arbitration. A hearing on the present motions is set for August 5, 2024. ANALYSIS Dean  Ziroli petitions to compel Arbab to binding arbitration pursuant to an  arbitration agreement. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS Dean Ziroli’s petition. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy.’”  (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).)  Once the court finds an arbitration agreement exists, the party opposing  arbitration bears the burden of establishing a defense to enforcement by  preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities  Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting an arbitration  agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret contractual  provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the parties’ mutual  intentions and applying contractual language if clear and explicit. (Valencia  v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because public policy strongly  favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a dispute are  resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross  of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Dean Ziroli argues the present action is subject to an arbitration  provision that was included in a residential purchase agreement. In September  2021, Arbab and Dean Ziroli entered into a written residential purchase  agreement with joint escrow instructions. (Complaint, ¶ 15; Setian Decl., ¶ 4.)  In relevant part, Section 22.B of the agreement states “The Parties agree that  any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this  Agreement or any resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation,  shall be decided by neutral, binding arbitration.” (Setian Decl., Ex. B, §  22.B.) The provision also states “[e]nforcement of this agreement  to arbitrate shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.” (Setian Decl.,  Ex. B, § 22.B.) Last, the provision excludes actions to enforce a deed of trust,  mortgage, or installment land sale contract defined in Civil Code section 2985;  unlawful detainer actions; and any matter within the jurisdiction of bankruptcy,  probate, or small claims court. (Setian Decl., Ex. B, § 22.C.) In  opposition, Arbab argues the arbitration provision is unenforceable for two  reasons. First, Arbab argues the arbitration provision does not apply to the  present action because the present action is not based on contract. (Opp., p.  2:23-3:9.) But while Arbab argues this action is not a dispute arising out of  the residential purchase agreement, Arbab’s argument ignores the fact that the  arbitration provision also applies to disputes arising out of any “resulting  transaction.” This arbitration provision is applicable to Arbab’s fraud and  negligence claims because they arise out Arbab’s purchase of the subject  property, a resulting transaction of the residential purchase agreement. In  other words, if Arbab did not go through with purchase of the subject property,  Arbab would not have standing to bring a negligence and fraud action for the  subject property’s construction. Second,  Arbab contends arbitration cannot be compelled if there are grounds for the  recission of the agreement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,  subdivision (b). (Opp., p. 3:11-4:4.) Because Arbab has alleged the residential  purchase agreement was procured through fraud and concealment, Arbab contends  the agreement to arbitrate is also subject to recission. The court finds this  argument misstates the law. In Ericksen,  Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35  Cal.3d 312 (Ericksen), our supreme court explicitly rejected this  argument and distinguished allegations of fraud in the inducement of the  underlying contract from claims of fraud that were directed at the arbitration  provision. (Id., at p. 323.) Here, Arbab fails to provide any evidence  that establishes the arbitration provision itself was fraudulently induced.  Thus, to the extent Arbab claims the residential purchase agreement was  fraudulently induced, that is an issue to be determined in arbitration. Accordingly,  the court finds Dean Ziroli established Arbab’s claims are subject to an  arbitration provision.  Arbab failed to  establish any defense to the enforcement of the arbitration provision.  Therefore, Dean Ziroli’s petition to compel  arbitration is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Dean  Ziroli’s petition to compel arbitration is GRANTED. Further, based on the above  ruling, Dean Ziroli’s motion to strike is now deemed MOOT.