 Case Number:  22STCV06315    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
2-22-24 
Case
#22STCV06315
Trial
Date: N/A
 
VACATE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, West Coast Add It Up Agency, et al. 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Unopposed/Defendant, Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Authority, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Vacate and Enter Different Judgment
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 18, 2022, Plaintiffs in pro per, West Coast Add It Up Agency filed a
complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority, et al. for “common
count.” On January 18, 2023, the court denied Plaintiff’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings. On April 11, 2023, the court denied the motion for summary
judgment filed by Plaintiff. On April 18, and July 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed
first and second amended complaints. On September 18, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer of Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority with leave to amend. 
 
On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint, which added in
plaintiff Wi Miller. On January 4, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority, et al. without leave to amend, and
denied Plaintiffs’ motion to enforce the settlement. The court entered judgment
on January 11, 2024.
 
RULING: Transferred and
Continued.
Plaintiffs
West Coast Add It Up Agency and Wi Miller move to “vacate and enter different
judgment.” Plaintiffs contend the order sustaining the demurrer to the third
amended complaint without leave to amend was improper in that Plaintiff was not
required to present a government claim. The court also sustained the demurrer
on grounds that the claims were barred by the four year statute of limitations,
which Plaintiffs also challenge on grounds that the court both improperly
ruled/misinterpreted the law and relied on false information.
 
Plaintiffs
move for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 663, which provides
in relevant part: “A judgment or decree, when based upon a decision by the
court, ... may, upon motion of the party aggrieved, be set aside and vacated by
the same court, and another and different judgment entered, for either of the
following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of the party
and entitling the party to a different judgment: 1. Incorrect or
erroneous legal basis for the decision, not consistent with or not
supported by the facts...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 663.)
 
“A
motion to vacate judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 663 must be
heard and determined by the judge who presided at the trial; provided, however,
that in case of the inability or death of such judge or if at the time noticed
for the hearing thereon he is absent from the county where the trial was had,
the motion may be heard and determined by another judge of the same court.”
(Cal. Rules Ct., rule 3.1602.)
 
The
challenged hearing and judgment was heard and entered by Judge Douglas Stern.
Judge Stern is now assigned to Torrance, an independent calendar court in Los
Angeles County. Because Judge Stern remains available within the County of Los
Angeles to hear the motion, the court must transfer the hearing of the motion
to Judge Stern.
 
The
court therefore instructs the clerk to forward the subject order to Judge Stern
in Torrance, and for Plaintiff to arrange for the hearing of the instant motion
in this courtroom.
 
Clerk
to give notice to all parties.
 