  Case Number:  21STCV02371    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  39 Brink Biologics,
Inc. v. Sanofi, S.A., et al.
Case No.
21STCV02371
 
Order #1 of 2
Motion to Compel
Compliance with Court’s Order of August 1, 2022
Motion to Compel
PMQ Depositions
Motion for an
Order to Show Cause re: Contempt against Defendants
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Conkwest Incorporated (“Conkwest”), a
predecessor entity of Plaintiff, entered into a non-exclusive licensing
agreement with SARD on December 16, 2011. 
Plaintiff alleges that this agreement granted Defendants a license to
use NK-92 cells for limited research and development purposes.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were not
authorized to modify the cells or use the cells for commercial purposes, like
potency or quality control release assays. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants violated both prohibitions, as a
result of which Plaintiff terminated the license on January 19, 2021.  Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff stemming from this termination. 

 
Now, Plaintiff
moves to compel compliance with the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, arguing
that Defendants have not produced required discovery: (1) Laboratory
notebooks describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells, (2) Documents
describing Defendants’ uses of the NK-92 cells with compositions other than
Isatuximab, and (3) Documents describing the use of the NK-92 cells by
“Industrial Affairs” and the “Commercial Framingham Facility.”  Plaintiff seeks both discovery sanctions and
contempt against Defendants and asks this Court to order Defendants to produce
certain documents that were subject to the Court’s order of August 1, 2022, as
well as additional documents as a prophylactic measure.  Plaintiff also seeks to compel Defendants to
provide persons most qualified (“PMQ”) witnesses on certain topics. 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY

 
            Plaintiff filed this action on
January 19, 2021, following which the parties have had numerous discovery
disputes.  After several hearings, the
Court issued on order on August 1, 2022, requiring Defendants to produce the
following documents, among others:
 
            RPD #1 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes uses of NK-92
cell lines relating to NK-92-related compositions to date.
 
            RPD #3 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes modifications of
the NK-92 cell lines to date.
 
            RPD #6 – The Court ordered
Defendants to produce a code-compliant response that includes the manufacturing
history of each NK-92 related composition to date. 
 
            The parties also dispute whether
Defendants are required to provide a PMQ witness on PMQ Topic #33: “The
identities of each NK-92-related composition(s).”  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel seeks three
different remedies, each of which is governed by different authority.  First, Plaintiff’s counsel seeks an order
“compelling Defendants to comply with the Court’s August 1, 2022 Order and to
provide documents in response to Brink’s Request for Production of Documents,
Nos. 1 and 3 . . . .”  The Court has
inherent authority to enforce its prior orders. 
Second, Plaintiff’s counsel seeks an order requiring Defendants to
produce additional documents as a prophylactic measure.  The Court has inherent authority to do so in
managing the parties’ discovery.  The
Court also has authority to do so if it finds a knowing and willful violation
of the Court’s prior order under its contempt powers, per Code of Civil
Procedure section 1209(a)(5).  Finally,
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions, which the Court may impose under Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030.   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            A.        The License 
 
            Plaintiff’s
complaint involves two theories.  First,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants improperly modified the NK-92 cells.  Plaintiff’s theory is based upon the license,
which was for the “Cell Lines” or the “Modified Cell Line.”  The “Cell Lines” is defined as “Conkwest Cell
Lines and the FCCC Cell Lines.” 
(Complaint, Exh. A, p. 2.)  The “Modified
Cell Line” is defined as the NK-92 cell lines with one specific modification
discussed in the license.  (Complaint,
Exh. A, p. 5.)  Plaintiff’s theory is
that any modification of the NK-92 cell line except the one detailed in the
license is a violation of the license.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants improperly used the NK-92 cell lines or the
permissible modified cell lines for commercial purposes.  With respect to the second theory, the
license makes clear that it is a “non-commercial license” for research and
development only.  (See Complaint, Exh.
A, ¶ 2.)  The license states: “The
license shall not include the sale of a Commercial Product by Sanofi (or its
Affiliates) or the use of the Cell Lines or Modified Cell Lines for batch or
quality control release assays for one or more Antibody Products.”  (Complaint, Exh. A, ¶ 2(b).)  The term “Commercial Product” is defined as
“a product that has been granted marketing or regulatory approval wherein: (i)
the batch or quality control assays for release of the product utilizes or
otherwise relies upon the Cells Lines; and/or (ii) the use of the batch or
quality control assays for release or the product would, but for the Licenses
granted herein, infringe a Valid Claim of the Patents.”  The term “Antibody Products” is defined as
“any Sanofi (or its Affiliates’) proprietary (or on which Sanofi has acquired
research, development, and/or commercialization rights) (i) antibody, or (ii)
protein comprising at least one complementary determining region (CDR)
(including bispecific antibodies, single chain antibodies, domain antibodies
and immunoconjugated antibodies), and/or (iii) protein comprising a domain
available for binding to an Fc receptor, whether human, humanized, chimeric,
murine, synthetic or from any other source that is proprietary to Sanofi (or
its Affiliates).    
 
            B.        Parameters of Discovery 
 
            The Court
acknowledges the difficulty of conducting discovery in a case of this nature.  Plaintiff granted Defendants wide latitude to
use the NK-92 cells for research purposes; Defendants have scientific
operations all over the world; and, according to Defendants’ counsel, 42
scientists requested access to the NK-92 cell lines.  Both parties are responsible for this problem,
given the broad nature of the license and Defendants’ widespread dissemination
of the NK-92 cell lines within their companies. 
The Court notes as follows: “[I]n a case of this nature, it is appropriate to comply with
discovery obligations by selecting document custodians most likely to have
responsive documents and using search terms on electronically stored
information (“ESI”) to segregate potentially-responsive documents.”  (Court’s Minute Order, dated May 24, 2023, p.
2.)  Defendants collected documents from
21 potential custodians, including those who worked directly with NK-92
cells.  (Id., p. 3.)  The Court permitted Plaintiff’s counsel to
identify three additional document custodians whose ESI should be searched.  (Ibid.) 

 
            C.        PMQ Topic #33 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED
IN PART 
 
            Plaintiff
noticed PMQ Topic #33: “The identities of each NK-92-related
composition(s).”  The term “NK-92-related
composition(s)” means “any actual or planned pharmaceutical or biological material
or therapeutic agent for which NK-92 cell lines, were used, directly or
indirectly, for (i) product discovery, (ii) research and development, (iii)
preclinical or in-vitro testing, (iv) manufacturing, or (v) quality control
batch control, assays, or stability assays, whether such material has been
approved by a regulatory agency or not, including but not limited to isatuximab
. . . and cemiplimab (also known as . . . REGN2810 . . .).”  This PMQ topic relates to Plaintiff’s second
theory, that Defendants impermissibly used the NK-92 cell lines or the modified
cell lines for commercial purposes. 
Accordingly, the Court limits the PMQ topic, and orders Defendants to
provide a witness on the following topics:   
 
            1.         Any actual or planned commercial
product—defined as “a product that has been granted marketing or regulatory
approval”—for which: (a) the NK-92 cell lines or modified NK-92 cell lines were
used to develop, test, and/or manufacture the product, and/or (b) for which NK-92
cell lines or modified NK-92 cell lines were used to conduct batch or quality
control assays on the product.  
 
            2.         Any use of NK-92 cells lines or
modified NK-92 cell lines for batch or quality control release assays for one
or more Antibody Products.  
 
            The Court
believes this is an appropriate interpretation of PMQ Topic #33, which relates
to commercial uses of NK-92 cell lines. 
The Court also notes that Defendants have agreed to provide witnesses on
PMQ Topic #43 (any modifications to NK-92 cell lines) and PMQ Topic #45 (any
use of modified NK-92 cell lines).  Between
these three PMQ topics, Plaintiff should be able to develop any record
concerning any violation of the license. 
 
            D.        Scientific Work Product of Dr. Alain
Fournier and his Trainee(s) – GRANTED 
            
            Plaintiff argues in its
motion that it did not receive notebooks from scientists in France concerning
potential modifications to the NK-92 cells, which Plaintiff’s counsel maintains
is a violation of the license.  At the
prior hearing, Defendants’ counsel acknowledged that the notebooks of Dr.
Fournier and/or his trainee were not produced. 
Defendants also concede that Dr. Fournier was involved in one attempt to
modify the cells that falls outside the permissible modification, specifically
“one attempt to modify the NK-92 cell lines to express IL-2, which was
unsuccessful.”  (Defendant’s Opposition,
p. 3:20-22.)  Dr. Francisco Adrian
testified about this attempt:
 
            Q:        Do you
know how many unsuccessful attempts to create IL-2 positive NK-92 cells were
made by the Sanofi Defendants?
 
            A:        No. 
I would say one.
 
            Q:        Why do you say one?
 
            A:        Because it didn’t work the first
time.  I don’t think a second time was
worth it.
 
(Declaration of Isabella Neal, Exh. A, p. 159:5-15.)  Defendants’ counsel produced Dr. Fournier’s
final report and presentation on the attempted modification but not his (or his
trainee’s) underlying notes.  
 
            RPD #3
required Defendants to produce documents relating to modification of the NK-92
cell lines to date.  The term
“modification” is defined as “the introduction or change of a DNA or RNA
sequence to create a permanent or temporary change to the generic,
biochemistry, or signaling pathways of the NK-92 cells that may alter its
cellular genotype or morphology.” 
Defendants’ counsel argues that this definition includes only successful
modifications, i.e., if the introduction “created” a permanent or temporary
change.  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that
this definition includes attempts, i.e., if the introduction was intended “to
create” a permanent or temporary change. 
The Court questions whether Plaintiff has any damages relating to an
unsuccessful attempt to modify the NK-92 cells. 
Nevertheless, the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s counsel and orders
Defendants to produce Dr. Fournier and/or his trainee’s underlying research
documents, including but not limited to his notes, forthwith.  
 
            E.         Use of NK-92 Cells by Industrial
Affairs – DENIED 
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
argues that Industrial Affairs does quality control on marketing and commercial
products.  According to Plaintiff’s
counsel: “Dr. [Ronan] Crepin further admitted that IA performed quality control
testing and had access to the NK-92 cells.” 
(Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p. 8:19-20.)  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Defendants
produced no documents on quality control testing involving NK-92 cells.  
 
            Defendants’ counsel
cites different portions of Dr. Crepin’s deposition to explain the issue.  According to Dr. Crepin: “[W]e have sent the
cells to Quality Assurance and to quality control in IA in order to perform a
formal transfer study under quality and regulatory requirements.”  (Declaration of Isabella Neal, Exh. C, p.
60:10-12.)  Plaintiff’s question asked
additional questions on this issue:
 
            Q:        Do you
know what records exist of the testing that was done by the IA lab relating to
the use of NK-92 cells for ADCC assays?
 
            A:        I don’t
know because I don’t work in the QC IA lab, so I don’t know all their
documentations and how they handle it. 
What I know is their results are transcribed and is written in the
transfer study report.  That is a
detailed summary of all the results they have generated in the study with the
ADCC assay.
 
(Id., Exh. C, p. 185:7-19.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that these documents were produced,
specifically “the protocol and the report for the formal transfer study.”  (Id., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel does not dispute that he received these
documents.  (Plaintiff’s Reply, p.
4:21-25.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has not
established that these documents suggest any violation of the license or that
any other documents exist that would establish any violation of the license.  Based upon the foregoing, Defendant’s motion is denied
with respect to alleged documents at Industrial Affairs unless Plaintiff’s
counsel agrees to pay all costs of collection and review of Ekram Graa’s ESI,
including the vendor’s fees and DLA Piper’s fees.  If so, the Court would require an undertaking
or an advance payment to Defendants’ counsel of $100,000 to cover these costs,
and a commitment to pay any additional costs over this amount.  If Plaintiff’s counsel accepts these
conditions, the parties shall file a stipulation and proposed order.
 
            F.         Use
of NK-92 Cells at the Framingham Facility – DENIED 
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
argues that “someone from the Framingham facility requested NK-92 cells.”  (Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points &
Authorities, p. 8:27-28.)  Specifically,
Defendants produced an internal email from Paula Boutin, who is identified as a
scientist at Sanofi, seeking NK-92 cells. 
(Declaration of Matthew Blackburn, Exh. W.)  Boutin states: “We are starting a new project
that requires these cells” in an email dated September 20, 2021.  (Ibid.) 
This email—referencing a new project—was sent almost ten months after
this case was filed, after Defendants allegedly violated their license. 
 
            There is no basis to
find that Defendants violated the Court’s order.  Defendants were required to produce documents
concerning improper modifications of NK-92 cell lines, and uses of NK-92 cell
lines relating to “NK-92-related compositions,” which are defined broadly, but
in a commercial sense, which is consistent with the license.  The record does not suggest any basis to
conclude that Dr. Boutin modified the cell lines or used them for commercial
purposes.
 
            At the prior hearing, Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that the mere fact that Dr. Boutin requested the NK-92 cell
lines after the license was terminated proves a violation of the license.  In the event of termination, the license requires
Defendants to destroy the “Biological Material.”  (Complaint, Exh. A, ¶ 7(f).)  The term “Biological Material” is defined as
“a culture of any of the Cell Lines that is provided to Sanofi by Conkwest
pursuant to this Agreement and all progeny thereof.”  (Complaint, Exh. A, p. 2.)  However, the mere fact that Plaintiff possessed
NK-92 cell lines after termination of the license does not appear to be a
viable theory of liability.  After
Plaintiff terminated the license, in or about February 2021, Defendants
obtained another copy of the NK-92 cell lines for research and development
purposes from Leibniz Institute DSMZ German Collection of Microorganisms and
Cell Cultures GmbH (“DSMZ”).  Plaintiff
voluntarily deposited its NK-92 cell line with DSMZ and therefore has no cause
to complain that Defendants obtained a license from DSMZ, provided that the
cells were used only for research and development purposes. 
 
            There is nothing in the
record suggesting that the Framingham facility violated the license.  Based upon the foregoing, the Court denies
the motion without prejudice.  However,
based upon its inherent authority, the Court will authorize Plaintiff’s counsel
to propound five special interrogatories upon Defendants concerning Dr.
Boutin’s use of the NK-92 cell lines, to be verified by Dr. Boutin or an
appropriate PMQ witness.  Depending upon
the responses, if requested, the Court may authorize a short remote deposition
of Dr. Boutin or the PMQ witness.
 
            G.        Dr. Anali Wang’s “Notebooks” – DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
            Finally, Plaintiff’s
counsel argues “Defendants have not produced laboratory notebooks that exist
describing the use or modification of the NK-92 cells.”  (Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points &
Authorities, p. 6:25-26.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel relies on the testimony of Dr. Anlai Wang as follows:
 
            Q:        So in your
work at Sanofi, you keep a written lab notebook?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        And that’s
mandatory for all of the work you’re doing for the company?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        For the
entire 14 years you’ve been at the company?
 
            A:        Yes.  Before we had paper notebooks.  Now we have electronic notebooks.  That’s different.  
 
            Q:        And when
did the change from paper notebooks to electronic notebooks happen,
approximately?
 
            . . . 
 
            A:        . . . I
don’t recall how many years ago.  Maybe
about eight or nine years ago or something like -- 
 
            Q:        Okay.  So around 2015, 2016 you think you shifted
from a paper notebook to an electronic notebook?
 
            A:        I really
cannot give you an exact year, yeah.
 
            . . . 
 
            Q:        . . .
During the period of time when you had a paper notebook, you had more than one
notebook, correct?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        About how
many notebooks did you have, paper notebooks, that contained work relating to
NK-92 cells in any way?
 
            A:        Total, I
would say I have five to seven paper notebooks. 
Year.  But I cannot recall how
many notebooks have NK-92-related experiments. 

 
(Declaration
of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 11, 2023, Exh. D, pp. 71:13-73:10.)  Subsequently, Dr. Wang testified as follows:
 
            Q:        And you
testified yesterday that you would have had multiple paper notebooks that
contain your experiments involving NK-92 cells, correct?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Are you
confident that there would be more than two pages in your paper notebooks that
relate to your use of NK-92 cells?
 
            . . . 
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        More than
three pages?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Can you
give me an estimate of the total number of pages in your paper laboratory
notebooks that would have related to your use of NK-92 cells?
 
            A:        I can’t.
 
            Q:        It is more
than 10 pages?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Was it
more than a hundred pages? 
 
            A:        No.
 
(Declaration
of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, Exh. Q, pp. 216:6-217:14.)  Dr. Wang provided additional
explanation:  
 
            Q:        I think I
follow you.  I just want to make sure we
get a clear record here.  So you’re not
sure if the total number of pages in a laboratory notebook is a hundred or 150;
is that correct?
 
            A:        Correct.
 
            Q:        And you
told me that you had more than one paper laboratory notebook; right?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        And the
multiple paper notebooks you had contained your work on NK-92 cells?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        And you
know that there’s more than 10 pages in those paper notebooks but you can’t --
that related to your work in NK-92 cells, but you can’t be more specific than that?
 
            A:        Yes.  But not for every notebook.  Specifically, if you say this notebook, I
would say yes.   
 
(Id., Exh. Q, pp. 217:21-218:15.) 
The Court interprets Dr. Wang’s testimony as follows: (1) Before
switching to electronic notebooks, Dr. Wang used between five and seven paper
notebooks for her work; (2) Each notebook had either 100 or 150 pages, meaning
that Dr. Wang had between 500 and 1,050 pages relating to her work in total;
(3) At least two of these notebooks had work relating to NK-92 cells; (4) Dr. Wang’s
work relating to NK-92 cells consumed between 10 and 100 pages in her paper
notebooks; and (5) The remaining pages related to other work.  
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel
argues that he received only three pages from Dr. Wang’s paper notebooks,
citing Exhibit R to his declaration. 
(Id., Exh. R.)  However, Dr. Wang’s
deposition makes clear that Defendants produced at least ten other pages from
her paper notebooks:
 
            Q:        Okay.  Let’s go to Exhibit Number 9, if you would,
which is Tab 60.  It is a 10-page
document, so take as much time and [sic] you need to review it.  But my question is whether you recognize
this?
 
            A:        Okay.  Yes.
 
            Q:        Is this
the record of an experiment that you conducted?
 
            A:        Yes.
 
            Q:        Are there
any markings on this document to indicate that it came from your electronic
laboratory notebook?
 
            A:        No, not
from my electronic notebook.  From my
paper notebook.
 
            Q:        How do you
know that this came from your paper notebook?
 
            A:        Because
look at experiment date, that was October 27, 2014.
 
(Declaration of Isabella Neal, dated September 21, 2023, Exh. B, pp.
203:8-204:5.)  This testimony is
corroborated by the three other pages from Dr. Wang’s paper notebooks proffered
by Plaintiff’s counsel, which have dates of October 30, 2014, through November
5, 2014.  (See Declaration of Matthew
Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, Exh. R.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds Dr. Wang’s testimony on this point to be
credible.  Indeed, Plaintiff’s counsel
attempted to impeach Dr. Wang, to no avail:
 
            Q:        Okay.  Well, we had a discussion yesterday about the
fact that you had both paper notebooks and electronic notebooks, and I asked at
the time if you knew when you switched over, and you said you couldn’t give me
a date.  And now it seems like you got a
very specific idea of what that happened. 
How do you [know] that information today about when it switched over?
 
            A:        Because I
remember, I told you I started working with -- in the CD38 project team in
2014, right, so I remember at beginning, when I put all the information and
also procedures and material and method with just my hand, not electronic
notebook.  I remember that.  
 
(Id., Exh. B, p. 204:6-22.)  In
fact, Dr. Wang testified about joining the CD38 project team in 2014 during her
prior day of testimony:  
 
            Q:        I’m not
sure I understand that answer.  So for
this notebook what are you willing to say about the number of pages that
contain your work relating to NK-92 cells?
 
            A:        Yes,
because let say, for example, before 2014, I was not in the CD38 project team,
so I was involved in totally different project.
 
            Q:        Right.
 
            A.        So, obviously, in that notebook, 
 
(Declaration of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, Exh. Q, p.
218:16-25.)  Plaintiff’s counsel did not
provide Page #219, or the next subsequent pages of Dr. Wang’s deposition, so it
is unclear what else Dr. Wang discussed on this topic.
 
            At the prior hearing,
Plaintiff’s counsel argued that Exhibit #9 to Dr. Wang’s deposition necessarily
was an electronic document.  The Court
has reviewed Exhibit #9, which clearly is an electronic document, but Dr. Wang
testified clearly that this document came from her paper notebook, given the
date.  It appears that Dr. Wang kept her
notes in an electronic format and, in 2014, printed them to include in a hard
copy notebook.  This is consistent with
Exhibit R, which appears to be a printed copy of an electronic document with
handwriting.  Defendants’ counsel  has maintained that Defendants produced her
electronic files.  
 
            The problem with
Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion is that he did not identify the specific
deficiencies until the reply brief.  In
the brief and accompanying declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel made a series of
specific arguments why he believes documents were withheld.  These arguments could have been included in
the moving papers.  This is
problematic.  Plaintiff’s counsel has not
had an opportunity to respond, and the Court does not have sufficient
information to resolve the motion. 
Indeed, Plaintiff’s counsel did not even lodge a complete copy of Dr.
Wang’s deposition transcript.  This may
be dispositive, because according to Defendants’ counsel, Dr. Wang explained
this issue during her deposition, specifically, that she inputted the data from
her experiments into Excel spreadsheets and then printed those excel
spreadsheets into her paper 
notebooks.  Defendants’ counsel
maintains that Defendants produced all of the Excel spreadsheets, and there is
not some group of “electronic notebooks” that was withheld.  The Court cannot resolve issues first raised
in the reply brief.  Defendants’ counsel
suggested that this issue is briefed in connection with her motion for a
protective order.  “Judges
are not like pigs, hunting for truffles buried in the briefs.”  (United
States v. Dunkel, 927 F.2d 955, 956 (7th Cir. 1991).)  Putting that aside, the parties did not lodge
a complete copy of Dr. Wang’s deposition transcript in connection with that
motion, either.      
 
            Even if the Court were
to reach the merits, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration lacks sufficient
foundation for the Court to conclude that Dr. Wang’s documents were not
produced.  Plaintiff’s counsel states: “For
the period after January 5, 2015 (when the CRB.HQL5 notebook was completed and
turned in by Dr. Wang), I identified over one hundred experiments conducted by
Ms. Wang involving NK-92 cells.  These
experiments began as early as January 14, 2015 and continued through at least
November 18, 2020.  I have personally
searched for paper or electronic laboratory notebook pages produced by
Defendants that relate to those experiments. 
Based on my search, Defendants have not produced pages from any of Ms.
Wang’s paper or electronic laboratory notebooks that relate to these
experiments.”  (Declaration of Matthew
Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, ¶ 24.) 
As an initial matter, if Defendants’ counsel is correct, there are no
“electronic notebooks;” there are only Excel spreadsheets, which Plaintiff’s
counsel apparently has (since they were used at the deposition of Dr. Wang).  Putting that aside, this declaration—in the
absence of evidentiary support—does not establish a violation of the Court’s
order.  Plaintiff counsel did not lodge
the documents demonstrating that Dr. Wang conducted over 100 experiments.  Plaintiff’s counsel did not lodge the
800-plus pages produced by Defendants. 
Plaintiff’s counsel did not provide a detailed explanation linking the
two sets of documents, i.e., explaining how the first set of documents
establishes there were 100-plus experiments and how the second set of documents
establishes that these experiments were not reflected in Dr. Wang’s documents. 
 
            Similarly, Plaintiff’s
counsel states that he “identified native Excel files in Defendants’
productions indicating that Ms. Wang had conducted at least 23 separate
experiments involving NK-92 cells before the CRB.HQL5 notebook was completed
and turned in by Ms. Wang.”  (Declaration
of Matthew Blackburn, dated September 26, 2023, ¶ 23.)  Plaintiff’s counsel states that there were 23
separate dates in 2014 at issue. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
states: “I have personally searched for paper laboratory notebook pages
that were produced by Defendants and relate to these experiments.  With the lone exception of October 20, 2014
(second) experiment shown in the last two pages of Exhibit R, Defendants have
not produced pages from any of Ms. Wang’s paper laboratory notebooks for any of
these experiments.”  (Ibid.)  Again, Wang testified that ten pages relating
to the experiment of October 27, 2014, were from her paper notebook.  This supports Defendants’ counsel’s proffer
that there are paper notebooks and Excel spreadsheets, not “electronic notebooks.”  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration is
insufficient because it does not state that he found no documents in the
800-plus pages relating to the 23 experiments in 2014; only that he found no
“paper” documents.  Also, Plaintiff’s
counsel did not lodge the evidence showing there were 23 experiments and the
800-plus pages with an explanation of how the 23 experiments are not reflected
in the production of Dr. Wang’s documents. 
 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion with respect to Dr. Wang’s
documents.  This order is without
prejudice to Plaintiff filing a proper motion (i.e., a motion that raises the
specific issues in the moving papers and includes evidentiary support.)  The Court provides notice to both parties:
Assuming both parties request discovery sanctions for the costs associated with
the instant motion and the future motion, absent good cause, the Court would be
inclined to award sanctions to the prevailing party, per Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part
and denied in part.  The motion is denied
except as noted in this order.
 
            2.         Defendants shall produce a PMQ witness
on PMQ Topic #33 to address the following issues: 
 
                        (a)       Any actual or planned commercial
product—defined as “a product that has been granted marketing or regulatory
approval”—for which: (a) the NK-92 cell lines or modified NK-92 cell lines were
used to develop, test, and/or manufacture the product, and/or (b) for which
NK-92 cell lines or modified NK-92 cell lines were used to conduct batch or
quality control assays on the product.  
 
                        (b)       Any use of NK-92 cells lines or modified
NK-92 cell lines for batch or quality control release assays for one or more
Antibody Products.  
 
            3.         Defendants shall produce Dr. Alain
Fournier and/or his trainee’s underlying research documents, including but not
limited to his notes, concerning the attempted modification of the NK-92 cell
line forthwith.                  
 
            4.         The Court will order Defendants to collect
documents from Ekram Graa if Plaintiff agrees to pay all costs associated with
that undertaking, including the vendor’s fees and DLA Piper’s fees, in advance.
 
            5.         The Court will authorize Plaintiff’s
counsel to propound five special interrogatories upon Defendants concerning Dr.
Boutin’s use of the NK-92 cell lines, to be verified by Dr. Boutin or an
appropriate PMQ witness.  Depending upon
the responses, if requested, the Court may authorize a short remote deposition
of Dr. Boutin or the PMQ witness.
 
            6.         This order is without prejudice to
Plaintiff filing a proper motion concerning Dr. Anlai Wang’s notebooks.  
 
            7.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 

 
Order #2 of 2
Defendants’ Motion
for a Protective Order
 
Plaintiff Brink
Biologics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Sanofi, S.A.
(“Sanofi”), Sanofi-Aventis U.S., LLC (“SAUS”), and Sanofi-Aventis Recherche
& Developpement, S.A. (“SARD”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff’s counsel has been taking
depositions of Defendants’ witnesses, and certain issues have arisen, based
upon which Defendants’ counsel filed a motion for a protective order seeking
the following:
 
1.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall be limited to
two additional hours for each of the depositions of Dr. Alain Fournier, Dr.
Ronan Crepin, and Mr. Nicolas McCray.
 
2.         The depositions of Dr. Francisco
Adrian, Dr. Anlai Wang, and Mr. David Dube shall be terminated.
 
3.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall be prohibited
from introducing foreign-language exhibits during depositions without doing one
of the following: (a) Providing notice of the exhibits at least 24 hours before
the start time of the respective deposition, or (b) Providing a translation of
the exhibit at the deposition.
 
4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall be prohibited
from inquiring into privileged matters during future depositions. 
 
Following the
hearing, the Court took the motion under submission.  Now, the Court grants the motion in part and
denies the motion in part.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            Defendants
move for a protective order under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, et
seq.  Per section 2025.420, the Court has
authority to make any order that justice requires to protect any deponent from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or
expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420(b).)    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Limitations on Depositions – GRANTED IN
PART; DENIED IN PART
 
            Defendants
seek to limit the depositions of Dr. Fournier, Dr. Crepin, and Mr. McCray.  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.  Because these are PMQ depositions
(as well as individual depositions), the time limitations of Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.290 do not apply. 
Nevertheless, the Court has authority to limit these depositions per
section 2025.420(b).  The Court orders as
follows:
 
            1.         Dr. Fouriner and Dr. Crepin – The Court
orders that the depositions of Dr. Fouriner and Dr. Crepin shall start at 9:00
a.m. local time, and Plaintiff’s counsel shall have five (5) hours and thirty
(30) minutes for each deposition (not including breaks and Defendants’
counsel’s examination, if any).  Based
upon the Court’s review of the record, the Court believes this will provide
sufficient time for Plaintiff’s counsel to complete the examinations.  The Court authorizes the parties to stipulate
to a different duration/start time.    
 
            2.         Mr. McCray – The Court orders that the
deposition of Mr. McCray shall start at 9:00 a.m. local time, and Plaintiff’s
counsel shall have three (3) hours for the deposition (not including breaks and
Defendants’ counsel’s examination, if any). 
Based upon the Court’s review of the record, the Court believes this
will provide sufficient time for Plaintiff’s counsel to complete the
examination.  The Court authorizes the
parties to stipulate to a different duration/start time.    
 
            B.        Closing Depositions – GRANTED IN PART;
DENIED IN PART 
 
            1.         Dr. Francisco Adrian – GRANTED     
 
            According
to Plaintiff’s counsel, Dr. Adrian was designated on the following topics: (1) “Use
of modified cells,” and (2) “Preclinical testing using NK-92 cell lines.”  Dr. Adrian appears to have testified for over
11 hours on these topics.  Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that Dr. Adrian did not know how 41 or 42 scientists used the
NK-92 cell lines.  Similarly, Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that Dr. Adrian did not have knowledge about various uses of
NK-92 cell lines in documents and was not aware of uses after 2018.  Dr. Adrian was not designated on the issue of
Defendants’ total “uses” of NK-92 cell lines. 
Nor would such a designation likely have been probative.  The Court notes that it was not a violation
of Defendant’s licenses with Plaintiff or DSMZ to use the NK-92 cell lines for
research purposes.  Rather, Plaintiff’s
case relies on two theories, first, that Defendants modified the NK-92 cell
lines beyond what was permitted in the license, and, two, that Defendants used
the NK-92 cell lines for commercial purposes. 
It does not appear that Dr. Adrian was designated to testify about commercial
uses.  It appears that Dr. Adrian
testified about modifications to the NK-92 cell lines.  Therefore, the motion is granted with respect
to Dr. Adrian.  
 
            2.         Dr. Anlai Wang – GRANTED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel alleges that Defendants have not produced all of Dr. Wang’s laboratory
notebooks.  The Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion on this issue.  Therefore,
Defendants’ motion for a protective order is granted with respect to Dr. Wang’s
deposition.  However, this order is
without prejudice to Plaintiff filing a proper motion for sanctions and to
reopen this deposition.  
 
            3.         David Dube – DENIED  
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that Dube was unprepared to testify about “the identities of
each batch of isatuximab subjected to ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell
lines.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p.
8:22-23.)  Plaintiff’s counsel explains
that this means he was supposed “to testify as to the ADCC release tests
performed on commercial or PPQ batches of isatuximab drug substance or drug
product.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p.
8:25-26.)  Plaintiff’s counsel points to
Dube’s deposition testimony as evidence that he failed to do so:
 
Q:        Okay.  Moving on to Topic 31, “The identities of
each batch of isatuximab subjected to ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell
lines.” . . . . 
 
A:        The
identities of each -- ADCC testing relating to NK.  So what I can say clearly, we pulled all the
commercial releases from the time of approval, and I reviewed the certificates
of analysis, the testing protocols, the revision of the testing protocols and
the specifications.  
 
Q:        And did you
do that both for SARD and Sanofi SA and AUSA?
 
            . . . 
 
A:        Yeah.  So I spent -- first of all, I did it for all
commercial batches.  And as far as the
R&D batches, I did go through the analysis certificate, but I didn’t go
through them in the same level of detail. 
 
. . .
 
Q:        My question
was, are there other certificates of analyses that used NK-92 as part of the
testing that weren’t included here today?
 
A.        I’m not
aware of other certificates of analysis. 
It’s not the type of thing I would know specifically for R&D.  
 
(Declaration of Jack Valinoti,
Exh. #7, pp. 22:22:14-24:4, 73:21-74:2.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel identified the problem with Dube’s use of the term
“R&D” during this deposition:
 
            Q:        So do you know of any batches that did
not meet acceptance criteria?
 
            A:        Okay. 
So I don’t know of any commercial batches themselves, never used
NK-92.  Prior to commercial batches,
research batches or any other research activity, I’m not aware of any that
failed ADCC specifically.
 
            Q:        Now, when you say you’re not aware, did
you ask your colleagues, did you research it, did you find out for sure there
was none, or you just -- you don’t know about it?
 
            A:        I think it’s safe to say that I don’t
know it.  I didn’t ask every colleague to
go over all the research background.  But
I do know for the commercial, that’s where I spent my time reviewing. 
 
            Q:        But the topic isn’t limited to
commercial -- 
 
            A.        Okay.
 
            Q:        -- right?  It’s also -- it would also include what you
might call research, even drug products, drug substances, further along.  It’s wider than that.
 
            A:        Okay.
 
            Q:        So you didn’t ask anybody about whether
or not any of the research using NK-92 cells -- 
            
            A:        I did not ask about research.
 
            Q:        -- failed -- 
 
            A:        -- failing for NK-92.
 
(Id., Exh. #7, pp.
159:4-160:12.)  Simply, Dube was prepared
to testify only about commercial batches, and he was not prepared to testify
about “research batches” and “research activity.”    
            
Defendants’
counsel explains this issue by arguing that “ADCC release testing was not
performed on PPQ batches of isatuximab.” 
(Defendants’ Reply, p. 7:20-21.) 
If so, Dube should have testified to that expressly (which would have
saved everyone additional work). 
Defendants’ counsel argues that Dr. Crepin’s testimony supports this
argument, but the Court cannot draw the same conclusion based upon the limited
portions of the deposition cited by Defendants’ counsel.  (See Declaration of Isabella Neal, Exh. I,
pp. 98:22-99:5, 125:8-20.)
 
Similarly, the
Court denies the motion with respect to the issue of where ADCC testimony was
performed.  The PMQ topic was: “The
locations where you or someone on your behalf performed ADCC testing relating
to NK-92 cell lines on isatuximab.” 
(Declaration of Jack Valinoti, Exh. #3, p. 5:23-25.)  Contrary to Plaintiff’s counsel’s argument,
there is nothing improper with the witness relying on a summary chart
researched and prepared by counsel. 
However, the witness still must be able to testify that its contents are
accurate, i.e., the chart reflects all locations where NK-92 cells were used
and no locations were omitted from the chart. 
Dube failed to do so: “I don’t know where all the cells were used, so I
don’t know where this came from.  So what
I’m stating is that I would have to check.” 
(Id., Exh. #7, p. 199:4-7.)  He
further testified as follows:
 
Q:        Okay. 
So you can’t actually confirm that this information is correct?
 
A:        I cannot personally confirm.
 
(Id., Exh. #7, p.
199:9-11.)  It is unclear whether the
problem was that Dube was designated to testify concerning commercial uses;
there was no ADCC testing relating to non-commercial uses; and the questions
were asked broadly to encompass both, which he could not answer.  The parties will have a further opportunity
to resolve that issue.  
 
Based upon the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion is denied. 
Defendants must supply a PMQ to testify as to the ADCC release tests
performed on non-commercial or PPQ batches of isatuximab drug substance or drug
product.  If Defendants did not perform
any such tests, as represented by Defendants’ counsel, the deposition should
take one hour or less.  Similarly,
Defendants must supply a PMQ to testify about the locations where they
performed ADCC testing relating to NK-92 cell lines on isatuximab.  Defendants’ counsel may research and prepare
a summary chart to assist the witness’s testimony, but the witness has to have
personal knowledge sufficient to testify to its contents.  The Court orders that this deposition shall
be conducted remotely unless doing so would violate any foreign law unless the
parties stipulate to conduct this deposition in-person.  
 
            C.        Foreign-Language Documents During
Depositions – GRANTED 
 
            During
the depositions of Dr. Fournier, Dr. Crepin, Dr. Adrian, and Mr. Dube,
Plaintiff’s counsel asked the witnesses about documents produced by Defendants
which were written in French without providing translations to Plaintiff’s
counsel.  Neither Defendants’ counsel nor
one of the witnesses understood French. 
Defendants’ counsel argues that Evidence Code section 753 requires
Plaintiff’s counsel to provide translations. 
Evidence Code section 753 states: “When the written characters in a
writing offered in evidence are incapable of being deciphered or understood
directly, a translator who can decipher the characters or understand the
language shall be sworn to decipher or translate the writing.”  (Evid. Code, § 753(a).)  
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that section 753 applies only to writings “offered in evidence”
in court, and not documents used at a deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel is incorrect for two
reasons.  First, the Court has inherent
authority to control the manner and nature of depositions except to the extent
that authority is governed by the discovery statutes.  (See Hauk v. Superior Court (1964) 61
Cal.2d 295, 298.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
identifies nothing in the discovery statutes that prohibits this Court from ordering
foreign-language documents to be identified or translated before
depositions.  To the contrary, requiring
Plaintiff’s counsel to identify or translate the documents in advance of the
deposition is in keeping with the notion that discovery is supposed to be an
open process to ensure that all parties—including their non-French speaking
attorneys—are aware of the facts and can adequately participate in the
depositions.    
 
Second, section
753 does, in fact, apply to depositions. 
“[T]he taking of a deposition is one of the proceedings of the court,
subject to the control of the court in the exercise of a ‘legal discretion’ in
the same manner as other proceedings of the court.”  (Hays v. Superior Court (1940) 16
Cal.2d 260, 264, superseded on other grounds by statute; see also Burns v.
Superior Court (1903) 140 Cal. 1.) 
Therefore, offering an exhibit at a deposition is the equivalent of
offering a deposition in open court, and section 753 controls.  This is especially true because depositions
are introduced in lieu of live testimony when a witness is not available for
trial.  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion.  Nevertheless, the Court’s order is not
without limitation, as the Court has authority to “make any order that justice
requires” in granting this motion.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420(b).)  Per
Defendants’ stipulation, Plaintiff’s counsel may comply with this order by
identifying the foreign-language documents 24 hours in advance of the start of
the deposition, but they are not required to do so.  If Plaintiff’s counsel wishes to use foreign-language
documents at depositions without identifying them in advance, the documents
must be translated.      
 
            D.        Discussions of Privileged Matters –
GRANTED 
 
            Defendants
seek a protective order prohibiting Plaintiff’s counsel from asking whether the
witnesses spoke to Defendants’ counsel about the substance of their testimony
during the breaks.  The Court grants this
motion with respect to both sides.  No
counsel may ask any witness about their discussions with counsel.  If such questions are asked in violation of
this order, counsel may instruct the witness not to answer the question, as the
answer may reveal privileged information. 
(See Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2009) 87
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013-1014.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The motion is granted in part and
denied as detailed in this order.    
 
            2.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 