 Case Number:  21STCV07334    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



BYRON
  MERLOS, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CLEVELAND
  RECLAIM INDUSTRIES, INC, et al.,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV07334
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO OBTAIN A MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  16, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
February 24, 2021, Plaintiff Byron Merlos (“Plaintiff”) filed this dangerous condition
negligence against Defendants.
          On October 25,
2023, Defendant Herc Rentals, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion to
compel Plaintiff to submit to mental examination with Dr. J. Vincent Filoteo.
Plaintiff opposes, but only as to the conditions of the examination.
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD 
          A defendant
who seeks to conduct a mental examination of plaintiff must file a motion and
“obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a
motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (b).) The court may grant such a motion “only for good cause
shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (b).) A showing of good cause
generally requires that “the party produce specific facts justifying discovery
and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) A mental examination is
generally appropriate only when a plaintiff alleges continuing emotional
distress or mental injury and so places his or her mental or emotional
condition “in controversy” in the action. (Ibid.)  
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          Here,
Plaintiff agrees to submit to a mental examination, thus conceding that there
is good cause for a mental examination. Plaintiff only opposes on the basis of
the conditions of the exam.
 
Disclosure of Raw Data 
          “If a party submits to a . . .  mental examination . . . that party has the
option of making a written demand that the party at whose instance the
examination was made deliver . . .  to
the demanding party . . . [a] copy of a detailed written report setting out the
history, examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made,
diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.610, subd. (a)(1).) “If the option under [Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610(a)]
is exercised, a copy of the requested reports shall be delivered within 30 days
after service of the demand, or within 15 days of trial, whichever is
earlier.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.610,
subd. (b).) 
A court has
discretion to order the production of the raw data from a mental
examination.  (Randy’s Trucking, Inc.
v. Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837.) 
“There is no
statutory authority . . . precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure
of test materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.” (Randy’s
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818,
834.) A plaintiff has a “right to take discovery and cross-examine defendants’
expert witnesses, which includes being able to examine the expert on the matter
upon which the expert’s opinion is based and the reasons for that opinion.” (Id.
at p. 838.)  Without access to raw data,
a plaintiff “cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data was collected,
determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist
on the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.” (Ibid.) 
The Court
finds that a discussion of Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern
County, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818 is appropriate. In Randy’s
Trucking, plaintiff sustained injuries in a vehicle accident and during
discovery claimed that she suffered a severe traumatic brain injury. The
defendants thereafter moved for an order compelling plaintiff to undergo a
mental examination by their neuropsychologist. The defendants moved for such an
order after plaintiff refused to proceed with the examination unless their
attorney received all raw data and test information from the mental
examination. The trial court granted defendants’ motion to compel; however, the
trial court denied defendants’ request to limit the transmission of raw data
and test materials to a licensed psychologist or neuropsychologist. Instead,
the trial court ordered defendants’ neuropsychologist to transfer the raw data
and an audio recording of the examination to plaintiff’s attorney pursuant to a
protective order. 
Thereafter,
defendants sought a petition for writ of mandate to direct the trial court to
modify its order to require the transmission of the raw data and audio
recording to plaintiff’s retained psychologist or neuropsychologist as opposed
to plaintiff’s attorney. The defendants asserted that: (1) the trial court
erred in ordering transmission of raw data and audio recordings to plaintiff’s
counsel because those items are not among the materials set forth in Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.610(a); and (2) psychologist confidentiality prohibited disclosure
of test materials.  In rejecting
defendants’ contentions, the Randy’s Trucking court held that there is
no statutory authority prohibiting a trial court from ordering the disclosure
of test materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.  (Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court
of Kern County, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 834.) Moreover, the court
opined that given the trial court’s broad discretion in discovery matters, the
trial court retained jurisdiction to order the production of materials and, in
doing so, the trial court did not abuse its discretion. (Id. at p. 837.)
Defendant
argues that the disclosure of raw data to Plaintiff’s counsel would violate Dr.
Filoteo’s ethical obligations, copyright and trademarks, and potentially
endanger test security. The Court finds that without access to such raw data,
Plaintiff would not be able to scrutinize the data collected by Dr. Filoteo and
prepare for cross-examination if the case goes to trial. Also, the same
argument that Defendant asserts here in opposition to disclosure of raw data was
rejected by the Court in Randy’s Trucking. Further, Defendant had
already stipulated to this production for a cancelled medical examination which
the Court signed as an order. (Lallande Decl., Exh. A.)
Thus, the
Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS Plaintiff’s request that the raw test
data from Plaintiff’s neuropsychological examination be disclosed to
Plaintiff’s counsel. This will include raw data of any testing and test
questions.
While the
Court finds that disclosure of raw test data from Plaintiff’s
neuropsychological examination should be disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel, the
Court finds that such disclosure is warranted pursuant to a protective order. (Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 828.) 
This Court
orders the following protective order—identical to that which was issued in Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 828—be entered in this matter:
 
“Plaintiff’s
counsel, defense counsel and all experts, consultants and the employees of the
respective firms shall maintain the security of all raw data, test materials,
and other medically private information obtained during the examination.
However, such raw data, test materials and other medically private information
may be disclosed to plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel and all experts,
consultants and employees of the respective firms for use in this case. Such
materials and data may also be shown to the trier of fact at the time of trial,
or such other time as may be necessary for the adjudication of the
above-captioned matter. These materials may be used for no other purpose, may
not be disseminated to any other party and the parties shall take reasonable
steps to maintain the confidentiality of the above-identified materials.” The
parties are also ordered to “destroy the above-identified materials at the
cessation of this case, in accordance with the California Rules of Professional
Conduct.” 
Counsel may
seek to add or modify the above terms by stipulation or motion; however,
pending a protective order from the parties concerning disclosure, the above
protective order shall apply. 
 
Audio Recordings:
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.530, “[t]he examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental
examination by audio technology.” Thus, Plaintiff has the right to record the
mental examination. Again, any ethical concerns will be resolved by the parties
entering into a protective order.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
compelling the mental examination of Plaintiff with the above discussed
conditions. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 16th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 