 Case Number:  22STCV10846    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CITY
  OF BEVERLY HILLS, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SHAHRIAR
  MONTESHAREI, et al.,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV10846
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  16, 2024
 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
March 30, 2022, Plaintiff City of Beverly Hills (“Plaintiff”) filed this motor
vehicle negligence action against Defendant Shahriar Montesharei (“Defendant”).

On
December 12, 2023, the Court related this case with Case No. 22STCV30105.
On
December 13, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to consolidate the
related cases. The motion is unopposed.
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1048 states: “When actions involving a common question of law
or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of
any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”
Under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(a)(1), a notice
of motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named parties in each case, the
names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated,
with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated.  (2) The motion to
consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the
appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on
all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and (C) Must have a proof of service filed as part
of the motion.  
 
III.       
DISCUSSION 
The Court
finds the actions involve common questions of law and fact in both the cases. Both
actions arise from the same motor vehicle collision and involve the same
defendant. Further, all parties have stipulated to consolidate the cases. (Doan
Decl., Exh. A.) 
The notice of
motion was not filed in the related case (22STCV30105), however the Court waives
this technical deficiency as both matters are before this Court and the parties
have stipulated to consolidation.
The motion also requests to continue
the trial date. The trial date was continued after the filing of this motion.
The request is therefore moot.
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the Motion to Consolidate
is GRANTED.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 16th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 