 Case Number:  21STCV36215    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BRYSON POPE,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
AJANI CAMPBELL, et al., 
 

                        Defendant(s).
 
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 21STCV36215
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S
  DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 16, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY:             Plaintiff Bryson Pope
RESPONDING PARTY:    Defendant
Ajani Campbell  
I.         BACKGROUND
On
September 30, 2021, Plaintiff Bryson Pope (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Ajani Campbell (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10 inclusive,
asserting on cause of action for motor vehicle negligence. 
The
Attachment to the Complaint does not provide details of the incident underlying
this action. It only alleges that on February 1, 2021, the defendants were
negligent in operating, owning, or entrusting their vehicle, and their
negligence was the cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. The incident occurred at
Manchester Avenue in Los Angeles, California, 90045. 
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s deposition
and request for monetary sanctions. 
On
October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application, seeking an order
compelling Defendant’s deposition or, in the alternative, shortening the time for
hearing of his motion.  
On
October 12, 2023, the Court denied the ex parte request to compel Defendant’s
deposition but granted the request to shorten the time for the hearing of the
motion. (Minute Order, dated October 12, 2023, p. 1.) 
On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition, (1) informing the
Court that the opposition to the motion was due on January 2, 2024, but
Defendant had not filed any opposition, and (2) asking the Court not to
consider any late-filed opposition. 
On
January 9, 2024, Defendant filed his opposition. 
On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed his reply to the opposition. 
II.       LEGAL STANDARD
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 “A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall
comply with both of the following:
1.   The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
2.   The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)
III.      DISCUSSION
As
an initial matter, the
Court exercises its discretion to consider the late-filed opposition and reply.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d) [“No paper may be rejected for filing on
the ground that it was untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its
discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must
so indicate”].) 
The
Court also finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
(Motion, Declaration of Ayang J. Inyang (“Inyang Decl.”), ¶¶ 2-10.)  
Plaintiff’s
counsel attests to the following facts in support of the motion: On January 19,
2023, counsel’s office served defense counsel with a deposition notice for
Defendant for deposition on February 9, 2023. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 2; Exhibit A – a
copy of the deposition notice.) However, on February 7, 2023, two (2) days before
that deposition, defense counsel’s office served an untimely objection to the
deposition notice, indicating that Defendant was unavailable for the February
9th deposition. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel requested alternative
dates for the deposition, but defense counsel’s office only provided dates
after the discovery cut-off date. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 4.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s
counsel indicated that the February 9 deposition would proceed as noticed, and
when Defendant did not appear at that deposition, a notice of nonappearance was
taken. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 4.)
On
March 29, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office served defense counsel with a
second deposition notice for deposition on April 19, 2023. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 5;
Exhibit D – a copy of the deposition notice.) However, when counsel’s office could
not confirm with defense counsel Defendant’s appearance at the April 19th
deposition, that deposition was taken off the calendar. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 5.)
On
May 30, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office served its third deposition notice
on defense counsel for deposition on June 22, 2023. (Inyang Decl., 6; Exhibit E
– a copy of the deposition notice.) However, defense counsel indicated that the
attorney handling the deposition would be unavailable on June 22, that they
were available on July 11, and were attempting to reach Defendant to confirm
his deposition for July 11. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 6.) Subsequently, however, defense
counsel’s office indicated that the July 11 deposition date no longer worked
and requested new dates. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s office
provided new dates; however, no one from defense counsel’s office responded to
the correspondence. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 7.)
On
September 15, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office served the fourth deposition
notice on defense counsel for deposition on October 4, 2023. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 8;
Exhibit H – a copy of the deposition notice.) However, defense counsel informed
Plaintiff’s counsel’s office that Defendant would not appear and had not received
notice for the deposition since defense counsel’s office had not communicated with
him for months. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 9.) When Defendant did not appear for his
deposition on October 4, 2023, a notice of nonappearance was taken. (Inyang
Decl., ¶ 10.)
In
opposition, defense counsel states (among other things) that he has been unable
to reach Defendant and believes Defendant may be incarcerated. (Opposition,
Declaration of Andrew P. Cristea (“Cristea Decl.”), 9.) Defense counsel also states
that from the outset of this case, he has been professional, civil, and
cooperative with Plaintiff’s counsel (e.g., he agreed to reschedule Plaintiff’s
deposition at Plaintiff’s counsel’s request). (Cristea Decl., 3-7.) 
Defense
counsel seeks 45 days to make Defendant available for deposition. (Motion, p.
5:24-25.)
In
reply, Plaintiff argues (among other things) that defense counsel should have
filed a motion for a protective order against the deposition notices if he could
not reach his client. 
The
Court finds it proper to grant the request to compel Defendant’s deposition
since Plaintiff is entitled to take the deposition. 
“If a motion [to compel a deposition]
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party
who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).)
Plaintiff
seeks sanctions of $1,748.35 against Defendant and his attorneys of record,
jointly and severally. The amount consists of 5.5 hours at counsel’s billing
rate of $230 per hour (equals $1,265) for briefing on this motion, plus $483.35
associated with Defendant’s failure to appear at two (2) of his noticed
depositions. (Inyang Decl., ¶ 11.) 
The
Court finds the requested sanctions reasonable. 
However,
the Court will impose the sanctions on Defendant only, not defense counsel,
since defense counsel has testified he was unable to reach Defendant and
Defendant has not submitted any declaration explaining his failure to appear at
the depositions. 
IV.      CONCLUSION
          Plaintiff
Bryson Pope’s Motion to Compel Defendant Ajani Campbell’s Deposition is GRANTED
as follows. 
          The request
to compel Defendant Ajani Campbell’s deposition is GRANTED. Defendant is
ordered to appear at his deposition within 45 days of this ruling or at a later
time that Plaintiff agrees to in writing. Plaintiff shall serve Defendant with
a deposition notice for the new deposition date.  
          The request
for sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay Plaintiff sanctions of
$1,748.35. 
          This ruling
is without prejudice to Defendant’s right, if any, to file a protective order
against the deposition. 
Moving
party to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
   
    Dated this 16th day of January 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 