 Case Number:  20STCV29627    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ISIDRO PATINO,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
NATIONAL READY MIXED CONCRETE
  COMPANY, et al., 
 

                        Defendant(s).
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 20STCV29627
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING AND MONETARY
  SANCTIONS 
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 16, 2024



 
 
MOVING PARTY:             Defendant National Ready Mixed
Concrete Company
RESPONDING PARTY:    None
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
August 5, 2020, Plaintiff Isidro Patino (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants National Ready Mixed Concrete Company (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50,
asserting one cause of action for general negligence. 
The
Attachment to the Complaint alleges the following: On August 8, 2019, “Plaintiff
was holding a shoot from a cement truck when a large amount of cement came down
and jerked the portion of the shoot he was holding. This caused Plaintiff to be
injured. Defendant was not operating the vehicle and machine in a safe manner
that directly resulted in the jerking of the instrumentality that caused
Plaintiff’s harm.”
On
May 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service of Summons on Defendant. 
On
June 16, 2023, Defendant filed its Answer. 
On
August 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel appeared at the Order to Show Cause Re:
Dismissal for Failure to File Entry of Default.
On
September 7, 2023, Defendant filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s initial
responses to its Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set
One), and Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents (Set One). 
On
September 25, 2023, counsel for both parties appeared at the Trial Setting
Conference, and the Court set the non-jury trial for its current date,
September 24, 2024, and the Final Status Conference for September 10, 2024.  
On
November 2, 2023, counsel for both parties appeared at the hearing of
Defendant’s motions to compel. The Court granted the unopposed motions and
ordered Plaintiff to (1) serve responses to the discovery requests and (2) pay
sanctions of $640 to Defendant within 30 days of the ruling. Counsel for both
sides submitted to the Court’s ruling. 
On
December 11, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for terminating sanctions
and monetary sanctions. 
As
of January 12, 2024, no opposition to the motion has been filed. 
II.       LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] terminating sanction issued solely
because of a failure to pay a monetary discovery sanction is never justified.”
(Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.) Instead,
“[a] monetary sanction is immediately enforceable as a judgment, unless the
court rules that it is not. In an appropriate case failure to pay an ordered
sanction is punishable as a contempt.” (Id. at p. 610.)
However, if a party engages in the
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose monetary, issue,
evidence, or terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) 
“Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: … (d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery . . .  (g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
“The trial court may order a
terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the
circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’ [Citation.]” (Los Defensores,
Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390 (“Los Defensores”).) 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’ [Citation.]” (Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.)
III.      DISCUSSION
Defendant
argues that terminating sanctions against Plaintiff are warranted because: (1)
on November 2, 2023, the Court ordered Plaintiff to respond to Defendant’s
discovery requests and to pay monetary sanctions, but Plaintiff gas failed to
comply with that order (Motion, pp. 6:21-23; 7:25-8:2; Declaration of Jennifer
W. Naples, ¶ 11; (2) “A sanction of a lesser order would be inadequate and unfair
to Defendant, which has been diligent in this case and yet has been prevented
from preparing its defense on Plaintiff” (Motion, p. 6:10-21); and (3) “It is
clear Plaintiff has no intention of complying with the Court’s orders, and
Defendant is concerned that Plaintiff has abandoned his case.” (Motion, p.
6:23-24.) 
The
Court finds that terminating sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff has
failed to comply with the Court’s order re discovery and, further, and perhaps
most tellingly, Plaintiff has failed to oppose this motion. 
Defendant
also seeks sanctions of $980, consisting of 2 hours counsel spent on the moving
papers, 1 hour she anticipated spending reviewing any opposition and preparing
a reply, and 1 hour preparing for the hearing, a total of 4 hours at a billing
rate of $230 per hour ($920), plus $60 filing fee. 
The
Court denies the request for monetary sanctions in addition to terminating
sanctions.  The terminating sanctions are
already sufficient sanctions under the circumstances. 
IV.      CONCLUSION
          The request for terminating sanctions
is GRANTED.  The request for monetary sanctions
is DENIED. 
Moving
party to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
   
    Dated this 16th day of January 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 