  Case Number:  23TRCV01666    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Plaintiff Cara StultsResponding Party: Defendant General MotorsPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most QualifiedRULINGThe Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce a Person Most Qualified to testify within 30 days of this order.BACKGROUNDOn or around February 5, 2022, Cara J. Stults (Plaintiff) purchased a 2019 GMC Yukon XL (the Vehicle) manufactured by General Motors (Defendant). (Complaint, ¶ 5.) The Vehicle was accompanied by an express written warranty. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Soon after the purchase, Plaintiff began experiencing several defects including issues with the powertrain system, the braking system, and the electrical system. (Id. at ¶ 11.) Plaintiff then filed suit on May 25, 2023 alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (the Act).The motion now before the Court is Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (the Motion). Defendant opposes the Motion, and Plaintiff files a reply.DISCUSSIONLegal StandardA motion lies to compel deposition attendance and document production, after service of a deposition notice, where a deponent fails to appear at, or proceed with, a deposition, without having served a valid objection. (CCP §2025.450(a).) No meet and confer is required to compel initial deposition attendance, but instead there must be a declaration showing that moving party inquired about the nonappearance. (CCP §2025.450(b)(2).) “Implicit in the requirement that counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109, 1124. See also L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26, Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating schedules in setting depositions).)AnalysisIn their moving papers, Plaintiff requests that the Court compel Defendant to designate a Person Most Qualified (PMQ) to be deposed on 19 separate categories, as noticed in their July 26, 2023 Deposition Notice (Declaration of Noreelie Panhwar, hereinafter, Panhwar Decl., Exh. B), which had set a deposition date for August 14, 2023. Defendant requests that the Court deny the Motion because (1) Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith, (2) Defendant agreed to designate a PMQ but only as to categories 1-4, 7, and 10, and (3) Defendant’s objections to the Deposition Notice are well-founded. The Court disagrees with each of Defendant’s arguments, takes them in turn, and grants the Motion.(1) Plaintiff met and conferred in good faithDefendant’s first argument is that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith. However, Plaintiff argues in their moving papers, that after receiving objections to the Deposition Notice of the PMQ on August 7, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel reached out via email the very next day to Defense counsel. The objection was to – among other things – the date of the deposition.Defendant agreed to produce a witness on a mutually convenient date and time. (Panhwar Decl, ¶ 13.) However, after Plaintiff’s counsel reached out to set a mutually agreed upon time and place, Defense counsel did not respond. (Panhwar Decl., ¶¶ 14-18.) Defendant argues that this is somehow insufficient and that the Motion should be denied on this bases alone. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff’s attached declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts is sufficient.(2) Plaintiff has set forth sufficient facts demonstrating good cause for the discovery soughtTo be clear, the Motion seeks primarily to force Defendant to designate a PMQ and compel a deposition of that PMQ. Defendant’s argument is not that they should not be compelled to designate a PMQ for deposition, but that the categories for the deposition are unrelated to the matter in front of the Court.Defendant agreed to have a PMQ testify as to categories 1-4, 7, and 10. The specific categories at issue are categories 6, 8, 9, 11, and 12 -19. Defendant objects to these categories on the following grounds:a) Categories 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15 regard information concerning GM’s internal investigations regarding Plaintiff’s vehicle and other customer’s vehicles of the same year, make, and model. Defendant objects arguing this information is irrelevant.b) Category 13 concerns a dispute resolution program; GM argues this is also irrelevant.c) Categories 5 and 16 - 19 surround GM’s internal policies and procedures for how it handles other consumers’ warranty claims. GM argues, again, that this is irrelevant.(3) Defendant’s Objections Are MeritlessAs to categories 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 14-19, all of which regard some form of internal policies or investigations, Defendant’s objection that this information is irrelevant is meritless. Case law confirms this.A plaintiff pursuing an action under the Act has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a nonconformity covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the use, value or safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or his representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of repair attempts (the failure to repair element). (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101. Also see CA CIVIL § 1793.2.) These categories have the potential to leadto admissible evidence, for example the information on internal investigations provide information on how Defendant handles warranty claims for customers like Plaintiff, especially if the vehicle was the same year, make, and model as Plaintiff’s. (See Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 973-974.) The requested categories are thus relevant to the issues related to Defendant’s good faith compliance with the Act, including breach of the express warranty and implied warranty of merchantability. (See Oregel, supra, at 1104-1105 [internal company policies that demonstrate hidden obstacles for consumer to obtain redress are admissible].)Even information regarding the dispute resolution program has relevance. If for instance, the dispute resolution program is at all related to how Defendant handles warranty claims, it will, like the information mentioned above, give Plaintiff some indicia of how these claims are handled and whether Defendant complied with their obligations under the Act.CONCLUSIONAccordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce a Person Most Qualified to testify within 30 days of this order.