 Case Number:  23STCV09115    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RICHARD
  HERNANDEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AMERICAN GUARD SERVICES, INC, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV09155
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Date: October 27, 2023 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
American Guard Services, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Richard Hernandez
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND -     
Richard Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
(the “Complaint”) which alleges 15 causes of action arising from an employment relationship
with American Guard Services, Inc (“Defendant”). On September 8, 2023,
Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration (the “Motion”) on the grounds
that when Plaintiff began working for Defendant, he signed agreements that
contained provisions requiring him to adjudicate his current claims in binding
arbitration. Opposition and reply papers to the Motion followed, and after the
Court considered all papers, it found that the evidence regarding whether
Plaintiff had signed the Arbitration Agreement (“Agreement”) was in dispute.
(See October 4, 2023 Minute Order for Case No. 23STCV09155.) Thereafter, the
Court requested supplemental papers from the parties. The Court discusses and
rules on those papers below.
 
Evidentiary Objections – 
            Plaintiff submits
objections to the Supplemental Declaration of Natalie Solano in Support of
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. Those objections are overruled. 
 
DISCUSSION - 
Legal Standard 
Here,
the main inquiry is whether Plaintiff signed the Agreement. The Agreement in
question contains a digital signature that shows both the name and signature as
“Richard Frank Hernandez” and is time stamped as “Jul 23, 20221 3:09 PM PST”.
(Motion, Exh. D, pg. 4.)  However,
Plaintiff argues through their Opposition Papers that he does not recognize the
document, that he did not sign the document, nor did he authorize anyone to
sign on his behalf. (Declaration of Richard Hernandez in Support of Plaintiff’s
Opposition to Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings, ¶¶ 4-5.)    
 
            California Civil Code section 1633.9(a)
supplies a governing rule and articulates how a proponent of an electronic
signature may authenticate the signature and show that it is what the proponent
claims it is. “An electronic record or electronic signature is attributable to
a person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in
any manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure
applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic
signature was attributable.” 
 
Analysis - 
            In Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief
and Evidence in Opposition to Defendant’s Motion (“Plaintiff’s Supplemental
Brief”), Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to meet its burden that, by
the preponderance of evidence, it is more likely that not that Plaintiff signed
the Agreement. The Court disagrees and will grant the Motion. 
 
            The Declarations Are Not
Contradictory
            Plaintiff’s main contention in their
Supplemental Brief is that the declarations of Rafaela Ramirez (“Ramirez”) and
Natalie Solano (“Solano”) are unreliable. For example, Plaintiff argues that in
Defendant’s Reply Papers, the Declaration of Rafaela Ramirez states that
“Rafaela Ramirez, former HR Manager and Director, attests that she oversaw
Plaintiff’s onboarding process.” (Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief, 2:15-16.)
Plaintiff then argues that the supplemental declaration submitted by Ramirez
declares that she does not “recall Mr. Hernandez’s hire and onboarding
specifically.” (Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief, 2:18.) Plaintiff then turns to
Solano’s declarations, arguing that, at in her first declaration, Solano
attested that she did not handle Hernandez’s onboarding, but then in her
supplemental declaration, she remembered Mr. Hernandez coming into the office
for his onboarding. (Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief, 3:3-11.)    
  
            As to the Ramirez declarations,
nothing in the Declaration of Rafaela Ramirez upon reply states that she
oversaw Plaintiff’s onboarding process specifically, however, Ramirez did work
as the HR Manager and Director upon Plaintiff’s hiring, and therefore likely
oversaw the hiring and onboarding process generally. As to the Solano
declarations, the first Solano declaration filed with the initial Motion states
that it was Ramirez’s job duties to oversee specific new hires’ onboarding.
Solano’s supplemental declaration stating that she “remembers Mr. Hernandez
coming into the office for his onboarding, personally interviewing Hernandez
and offering him the position, and Mr. Hernandez being placed at a computer in
front of her desk and watching him work through the onboarding documents”
(Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief, 3:8-11) does not contradict her initial
declaration. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Signature Has Been
Properly Authenticated Pursuant to CIV 1633.9
            However, even if the declarations do
not contradict each other, Defendant still must meet its burden of establishing
that Plaintiff’s signature is in fact his own. Two Court of Appeal cases are
instructive in this endeavor: (1) Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836 and (2) Espejo v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047.
 
            In Ruiz, an employee filed a
class action against his employer, the employer filed a motion to compel
arbitration. The trial court denied the motion and the Court of Appeal affirmed
the denial based on insufficient evidence of the electronic signature. (Ruiz,
supra at 836.) The Ruiz Court reasoned that because the employer’s
initial declaration only summarily asserted the signature belonged to Ruiz but
did not explain how they arrived at that conclusion, that there was simply not
enough evidence. (Id. at 843-844.) Espejo was a case where a
former employee brought an action against their employer for wrongful
termination. The employer filed a motion to compel arbitration. The trial court
denied the motion, but the Court of Appeal reversed, citing and discussing Ruiz
at length, explaining that what the defendant in Ruiz lacked, the
defendant in Espejo demonstrated sufficiently, a process by which it
could show the electronic signature belonged to the signer. (Espejo, supra
at 1062.) 
            The defendant in Espejo
explained the security precautions regarding transmission and use of an
applicant’s unique username and password, as well as the steps necessary for an
applicant to place their name on the signature line of the employment
agreement. The Defendant was then able to conclude based on this process, that
the signature belonged to the plaintiff in Espejo. (Id.)
 
            As the court in Espejo had
before it, so this Court has here. In the initial Declaration of Natalie Solano
submitted with the moving papers, Solano goes into great detail about how the
Agreement at issue was signed.
 
            On the first day, the new hire is
directed to a computer station by a human resources employee where the new hire
must create an account. (Declaration of Natalie Solano in Support of
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, “Solano Dec. Moving”, ¶ 6.) Then the new
hire must enter their personal mobile phone number and email address. (Id.)
After this is entered the system automatically sends the new hire a temporary
password to their personal email address. (Id. at ¶ 7.) After this, the
new hire is directed to a separate website where they must enter the temporary
password provided to their personal email address. (Id at ¶ 8.)
Solano notes that only someone with access to the new hire’s personal email
address would be able to access the temporary password. (Id.) After the
temporary credentials are entered into the separate website, the new hire must
create new credentials. (Id. at ¶ 9.) Once the new hire creates their
permanent credentials they are then directed to a new page where they are
presented and must electronically acknowledge Defendant’s written policies,
including the Agreement. (Id. at ¶¶ 10 and 13.) The system utilized
by Defendant records these acknowledgements, and Solano confirmed with
Defendant’s technology staff that there is no way for anyone at Defendant’s
worksite to alter these records electronically. (Id. at ¶ 11.) Moreover,
Solano attests that she has tested this process herself, and can confirm the
process works as described. (Id. at ¶ 13.) 
            This is sufficient to meet the
standard described in Ruiz, and Plaintiff’s supplemental brief is silent
as to any deficiencies within Defendant’s process.  
 
CONCLUSION – 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving Party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 27th day of October of 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



