  Case Number:  23PSCV02084    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  H Defendant CSS Employment Group,  Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The case is ordered stayed in part (i.e., as between Plaintiff and CSS) pending completion of the arbitration. Introduction In this  wrongful termination case, plaintiff Mary Isabel Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) brings  several employment-related causes of action against Defendants CSS Employment  Group, Inc. (“CSS”) and Markwins Beauty Brands, Inc. (“Markwins”) (together,  “Defendants”). In the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, among other  things, that Defendants terminated her employment and discriminated and retaliated  against her due to her pregnancy and failed to provide her with meal and rest  breaks, wages owed upon termination, and accurate itemized wage statements. CSS contends  that Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement as a condition of her employment  and thus moves the Court (1) to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims  against CSS and (2) to dismiss the case as to CSS or, in the alternative, to  stay this action pending completion of arbitration. Markwins filed a Notice of  Joinder on July 26, 2024. The motion hearing is set for August 8, 2024, the  same date as the Case Management Conference.  For the  reasons stated herein, the Court grants CSS’s motion and orders the case stayed  in part (i.e., as between Plaintiff and CSS) pending the arbitration. The Court directs the parties to be prepared  to address their positions on Markwins’ Notice of Joinder at the hearing on  August 8, 2024.   Factual Background  CSS  is a related entity of Consolidated Staffing Solutions, Inc. (“Consolidated”).  (Bazan Decl., ¶ 2).  Consolidated employees are temporary-for-hire  staffing employees assigned to particular work assignments and/or jobsites. (Id.)  CSS employees oversee all aspects of human resources for Consolidated  employees, including Plaintiff. (Id.)  All  individuals placed in job positions by Consolidated, including those whom CSS  assists in placing at Markwins, undergo an onboarding process prior to their  placement during which time certain documents and policies are presented to them.  (Id., ¶ 4).  CSS  placed Plaintiff at Markwins as a production employee from around March 3, 2022  through October 31, 2022. (Id., ¶ 5). CSS Area Manager Bertha Bazan (“Bazan”)  and Bazan’s coworker Nancy Morales met with Plaintiff, assisted in Plaintiff’s  interview process, and provided Plaintiff with CSS’s and Consolidated’s  Employment Application (“Application”) on or around March 3, 2022 via email to  Plaintiff’s email account at mrodriguez@aol.com. (Id., ¶ 6).  Plaintiff  also underwent the onboarding process and was provided with the Employee  Handbook (“Handbook”), which included an arbitration provision. (Id., ¶  7, Exh. B.) Plaintiff  digitally signed the “Handbook Receipt and Agreement to At-Will Employment and  Arbitration of Disputes” on March 3, 2022 at 9:18 a.m. (“Handbook Receipt”). (Id.,  ¶¶ 6 and 8, Exhs. A and C.) Specifically, the last two sentences of the  Handbook Receipt state: “I certify that I have received and will read this  Handbook, as expected by the Company, including the employment at-will and  mutual arbitration provisions. I agree to comply with the policies contained in  this Handbook. (Id., ¶ 8, Exh. C.) The  Handbook’s arbitration provision (Paragraph 9.1 entitled “Mutual Arbitration of  Disputes”) reads, in relevant part, as follows:   . . . Using arbitration in lieu  of taking the issue to a court of law is a condition of employment here.  Accordingly, all employees waive their right to jury trials in the settling of  disputes with the company. Also, the company may initiate an arbitration  proceeding against an employee with  whom it has an issue that properly might  otherwise be heard in a court of law. . . All disputes related in any  manner to the employment relationship, including the termination of that  relationship, are subject to arbitration (regardless of when they arose). This  includes, without limitation, disputes related to expense reimbursement, wages,  overtime, classification, breaks  and rest periods, termination, retaliation,  discrimination, harassment, defamation, privacy, and claims arising under the  Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Uniform Trade Secrets Act and other trade secret  misappropriation claims (except for claims made by you or Wood World connected  to  litigation over a patent), Civil Rights Act of 1866, Civil Rights Act of  1964, California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Americans with Disabilities  Act, Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Family and Medical Leave Act, Fair  Labor Standards Act, Affordable Care Act, Genetic  Information Nondiscrimination  Act, Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, Worker  Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, California Labor Code or Wage  Orders, Employee Retirement Income Security Act (except for any claims arising out of a claim  for employee benefits under any ERISA benefit plan sponsored by  Wood World), and all other federal or state legal claims arising out of or  relating to your employment or the termination of employment. . .(Id.,  ¶ 7, Exh. B at ¶ 9.1.) Legal  Standard   “[A]rbitration is generally favored under both  the FAA and California law.” (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140  Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247; see also Engalla  v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California  law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal  Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability and a  requirement that an arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of  state law standards that apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the  FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and  enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the  revocation of any contract.” (Higgins, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at 1247  [quotation marks and citation omitted].)  Generally,  on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must grant the motion unless it  finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to  compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the  agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration  unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.2; Condee v.  Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88  Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)  The  party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence  of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.  (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party  to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a defense to enforcement (e.g.,  fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Id.)  “In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,  weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as  well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final  determination.” (Engalla, supra, 15  Cal.4th at 972.) Discussion  There  is no dispute that as part of the employment onboarding process, Plaintiff digitally  signed the “Handbook Receipt,” certifying that she received the Handbook, including  its mutual arbitration provision. (Bazan Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C). There also is no  dispute that the plain language of that arbitration provision provides that “[a]ll  disputes related in any manner to the employment relationship, including the  termination of that relationship, are subject to arbitration[.]” (Bazan Decl. ¶  7, Exh. B).  Notwithstanding  the existence of a written arbitration agreement, Plaintiff argues that there  was no mutual assent to arbitration because she is a Spanish  speaker and did not understand what she was signing. (Opp., 4:7-10  [“Plaintiff’s native language is Spanish. Plaintiff does not speak English.  Defendants did not make it clear to Plaintiff that she was binding herself to  being compelled to arbitration. Plaintiff’s lack of English proficiency and  absence of a translated agreement means that she could not have established  mutual assent”].) As  an initial matter, Plaintiff has not submitted a declaration or proffered any  other admissible evidence in support of her claim. While Plaintiff’s counsel Matthew  Rabban attests that “Plaintiff is a Spanish speaker” and “does not speak  English” (Rabban Decl., ¶ 6), he fails to identify any factual basis for these  statements. Next, Rabban’s statement that “Plaintiff did not understand the  agreement with respect to her employment with Defendants after being hired on  or about March 1, 2022” is made upon “information and belief,” which “is  hearsay and must be disregarded.” (Star Motor Imports, Inc. v. Superior  Court (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 201, 204.) In  any case, the Court determines that there was mutual assent to the arbitration  provision. “The  existence of mutual consent is determined by objective rather than subjective  criteria, the test being what the outward manifestations of consent would lead  a reasonable person to believe.” (Monster Energy Co. v. Schechter (2019)  7 Cal.5th 781, 789 [quotations and citation omitted].)  “No law requires that parties  dealing at arm’s length have a duty to explain to each other the terms of a  written contract[.]” (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th  1667, 1674.) “[O]ne who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its face is a  contract, is deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape liability on  the ground that he has not read it. If he cannot read, he should have it read  or explained to him.” (Ramos v. Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242  Cal.App.4th 674, 687 [quotations and citations omitted].) Here, Plaintiff’s  signature on the Handbook Receipt demonstrates her assent to be bound by the  arbitration provision, notwithstanding her alleged inability to read English.  (Caballero v. Premier Care Simi Valley LLC  (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 518 [“Absent fraud or overreaching, [the  plaintiff’s] inability to read English and his limited ability to speak or  understand English [did] not alter the conclusion that his signatures and  initials on the contract manifested his agreement to its terms.”].) As in Caballero,  in this case, there is no evidence that Plaintiff ever requested assistance in  understanding the arbitration provision or was prevented from obtaining such  assistance, nor is there any evidence of fraud. Plaintiff’s “failure to take  measures to learn the contents of the document [she] signed is attributable to  [her] own negligence.” (Id. at 519 [quotations and citation omitted].) Plaintiff  next argues that CSS’s request for arbitration should be denied on the basis of  waiver. “Whether a right to arbitrate has been waived will depend upon the  facts and circumstances of each case. But the particular facts must be viewed  in light of the strong policy favoring arbitration.” (Thorup v. Dean Witter  Reynolds, Inc. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 228, 234.) “[T]he party claiming  waiver has a heavy burden; and a waiver will not be lightly inferred.” (Id.) Here, Plaintiff  has not met her “heavy burden” of demonstrating waiver. She claims that she  made a “pre-litigation request for her personnel and payroll files” on December  6, 2022 that “was ignored by Defendants,” that she proceeded to file suit in  court and that “Defendants. . . are attempting to enforce an arbitration  agreement [ ] which they should have produced. . . before the instant action,”  causing her prejudice and delay. (Opp., 5:7-10.) However,  Plaintiff’s claim is not supported by any declaration from Plaintiff or by any  documentary evidence. She thus has not met her burden of establishing that  Plaintiff’s request was even sent to CSS.  Moreover,  even if the request had been made to CSS, Plaintiff has failed to provide any  authority for her position that failing to produce records pursuant to a pre-litigation  request waives the right to arbitrate. Notably, as CSS points out, CSS was not  initially named in the instant lawsuit and only became a party after Plaintiff  filed the First Amended Complaint on March 25, 2024. Given that CSS filed the  motion to compel arbitration less than three months after being named in the  lawsuit, the facts and circumstances do not point to waiver. Accordingly, the  Court rejects Plaintiff’s waiver argument, grants CSS’s motion to compel arbitration,  and orders the case stayed as between Plaintiff and CSS pending arbitration. As to  Markwins’ Notice of Joinder, the Court defers ruling until the hearing on  August 8, 2024 and directs the parties to be prepared to address their  positions on the joinder request at that hearing. While Markwins’ Notice of Joinder was untimely  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b)), it appears to the Court that the interests of  judicial economy may favor including Markwins in the arbitration.  Conclusion The court  grants CSS’s motion and orders the case stayed in part (i.e., as between  Plaintiff and CSS), pending completion of the arbitration.  