 Case Number:  23STCV21986	    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S. Kalra,
Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:    April 23, 2024                                     
 
CASE NAME:           S.T. v. Eric Weinberg, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV21986

 
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA AND/OR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants Eric Weinberg and Guitar and Pen
Productions, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff
S.T.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: Quash
subpoenas for production of business records on healthcare providers or issue a
protective order limiting the time and scope of the subpoenas
 
TENTATIVE RULING: Defendant
Eric Weinberg and Guitar and Pen Productions, Inc.’s
motion to quash subpoenas on Blue Tiger Recovery; Omar Minwalla, Ph.D at
the Institute for Sexual Health; Marilyn Ruman, Ph.D.; and Sharon O'Hara, MFT is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS
AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 12, 2023,
Plaintiff S.T. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Eric Weinberg
(“Weinberg”), Guitar and Pen Productions, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”),
MTV Networks (“MTV”), and Liquid Theory, Inc. The operative first amended
complaint was filed on February 23, 2024, following a demurrer by MTV, and
alleges eleven causes of action for: (1) Sexual Assault, (2) Sexual Battery,
(3) Sexual Harassment, (4) Gender Violence, (5) False Imprisonment, (6)
Assault, (7) Battery, (8) Intentional Inflection of Emotional Distress, (9)
Negligence, (10) Respondeat Superior, and (11) Aiding and Abetting. 
 
According to the Complaint,
Weinberg sexually assaulted and harassed Plaintiff while she was a working
actress on MTV’s show Death Valley
and after she left the show. 
 
On October 3, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related Case to thirteen pending cases pending in
Dept. 62 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
 
On February 28, 2024, Defendants
filed this motion to quash subpoenas and/or for protective order.
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. 
 
On April 11, 2024,
Defendants replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
C.C.P. §1987.1
provides, in part: “If a subpoena requires . . . the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court, .
. . the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party], or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (C.C.P.
§1987.1.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On February 9,
2024, Plaintiff issued four deposition subpoenas for production of business
records on four different health care providers: Blue Tiger Recovery; Omar
Minwalla, Ph.D at the Institute for Sexual Health; Marilyn Ruman, Ph.D.; and
Sharon O'Hara, MFT (the “Therapy Providers”). All four subpoenas seek the same
categories of documents:
 
All treatment
records (including but not limited to counseling notes, reports, session
recordings, photographs, videos, diagnoses, treatment plans, prescriptions and
assessments) for Eric Weinberg RELATED TO treatment for sexual dependency,
sexual addiction, sexual recovery, sexual aggression, sexual harassment and/or
sexual assault from 2000 to Present.
 
All treatment
records for Eric Weinberg RELATED TO treatment for impulse control from 2000 to
Present.
 
All treatment
records for Eric Weinberg RELATED TO anger management from 2000 to Present.
 
(Motion, 3:13-4:3, Ex. 1.)
Plaintiff requested records from 2000 to present, covering 10 years prior to
her initial assault in 2011 to 4 years after her last interaction with Weinberg
in 2020. (Opp’n, ¶ 19.)
 
1.    
Good Cause
When seeking
documents through discovery, a party must show “good cause” to compel production
of such records. (Calcor Space Facility
v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 219, 224.) “The matter either is
itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Id.
at 223.) “To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a
disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and explain how the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)
 
Plaintiff contends
that good cause exists to compel production of Weinberg’s medical records
because they are “relevant to Defendant’s affirmative defenses and
understanding of consent as well as relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.” (Opp’n, ¶
12.) Plaintiff does not explain anywhere how the requested documents could
support Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff goes into slightly more details as to the
documents’ relevance to Weinberg’s defenses. Plaintiff specifically identifies
Weinberg’s defenses of consent, assumption of risk and comparative fault.
(Opp’n, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff contends that Weinberg has put his sexual disfunction
at issue by raising those defenses. However, Plaintiff’s argument lacks any reasoning
and merely states, repeatedly and conclusorily, that Weinberg’s medical records
are “highly relevant”. The Court cannot discern how those defenses put
Weinberg’s medical records at issue. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to show good cause to compel production of the
requested documents. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion should be granted.
2.    
Psychotherapist-Patient Privilege
Defendants
contend that the psychotherapist-patient privilege applies to Plaintiff’s
subpoena requests because all of the Therapy Providers hold themselves out as
providers of psychotherapy by psychiatric professionals, licensed
psychologists, or a licensed Marriage & Family Therapist. Consequently, all
of the treatment records sought, if they exist, would be privileged under
Evidence Code sections 990 et seq. and 1010 et seq. There is an exception to
the psychotherapist-patient privilege when otherwise protected communications
are directly relevant to the specific mental/emotional condition tendered by the patient. (Evidence Code §
1016.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant put his sexual disfunction at issue through his
affirmative defenses. But as discussed above, Plaintiff failed to make any
cognizable argument beyond conclusory statements that the requested documents
are relevant. Plaintiff has not shown that Weinberg tendered his mental or
emotional condition.
 
Accordingly,
the psychotherapist-patient privilege applies to the records Plaintiff seeks to
subpoena, and Defendants’ motion should be granted. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
Defendant Eric
Weinberg and Guitar and Pen Productions, Inc.’s
motion to quash medical record subpoenas on Blue Tiger Recovery; Omar
Minwalla, Ph.D at the Institute for Sexual Health; Marilyn Ruman, Ph.D.; and
Sharon O'Hara, MFT is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              April 23, 2024             __________________________________                                                                                                                        Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 