 Case Number:  22STCV35611    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




zooshoo, inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
joe ko

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV35611




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   6, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Joe Ko, Louisa
Zhou, Predicate Holdings, Inc., Studio 88 Holdings, Inc., f/k/a Predicate
Holdings, Inc., and J. Adams Fashion, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Zooshoo, Inc. 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Joe Ko (“Ko”), Louisa Zhou (“Zhou”), Predicate Holdings,
Inc. (“Predicate”), Studio 88 Holdings, Inc., f/k/a Predicate Holdings, Inc.
(“Studio 88”), and J. Adams Fashion, LLC (“J. Adams”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
move the court for an order compelling plaintiff Zooshoo, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) to
arbitrate the claims alleged in its Complaint. 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists” unless the court finds that the right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner or that grounds exist for
rescission of the agreement.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1281.2.)¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ The burden of
production as to this finding shifts in a three-step process.¿ (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)¿ First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate, which can be met by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opponent’s signature. (Ibid.)  If
the moving party meets this burden, the opposing party bears, in the second
step, the burden of producing evidence to challenge its authenticity.¿ (Ibid.)¿
If the opposing party produces evidence sufficient to meet this burden, the
final step requires the moving party to establish, with admissible evidence, a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties.¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
First, the
court finds that Defendants have met their burden of producing prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate between defendant Predicate, on
the one hand, and Plaintiff, on the other hand. 
Defendants
submit a copy of the “Amended and Restated Services Agreement” (the
“Agreement”), dated March 1, 2020.  (Ko
Decl., Ex. E, Agreement.)  The Agreement
includes an arbitration provision which states that “[a]ny controversy or claim
relating to this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration.”  (Id., p. A50, § VIII, subd.
(A).)  The Agreement purports to bear
Plaintiff’s electronic signature.  (Id.,
p. A52.)  
Thus, the
court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden of producing evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate.
Second, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden (1) to challenge the
authenticity of the Agreement, or (2) to show that the Agreement is invalid and
unenforceable.
Plaintiff
does not appear to deny that it signed a version of the Agreement.  Specifically, Plaintiff contends that,
through Jason Hsu, it signed an Amended and Restates Services Agreement in
February 2021 and thereafter emailed to Predicate.  (Decl., Ex. B, p. B9; Opp., p. 5:6-9 [this
version was signed by Plaintiff but “is NOT a valid fully executed agreement”];
Hsu Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (a).)  This
agreement was not signed by Predicate or any other defendant.  (Decl., Ex. B, pp. B6, B9.)  This appears to be the Agreement attached as
Exhibit E to Defendants’ motion, the agreement on which the motion is based.  (Ko Decl., Ex. E, Agreement.)  
Plaintiff
next submits a purported, fully executed copy of the Agreement, which (1)
includes Plaintiff’s allegedly forged signature, and (2) Predicate’s
signature.  (Decl., Ex. C, p. C6.)  Thus, Plaintiff contends that the second
agreement, which contains his forged signature, is void because there exists
fraud in the execution.  (Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415 [where there
is fraud in the execution, “the promisor is deceived as to the nature of his
act, and actually does not know what he is signing, or does not intend to enter
into a contract at all, mutual assent is lacking, and [the contract] is void”]
[internal quotations omitted].)  Plaintiff
argues that, because the second agreement is void, the parties did not agree to
arbitration.  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 763-764 [“If the entire
contract is void as to its inception because of fraud, then the parties have
not agreed to anything, including the arbitration of any controversy”].) 
The court
finds that this evidence is insufficient (1) to challenge the
authenticity of the Agreement and (2) to show that the Agreement is void.  Although Plaintiff has argued that the
second, fully executed agreement is void because it contains Plaintiff’s forged
signature, Defendants have not relied on that agreement in support of their
motion.  Defendants have instead
submitted the first version of the Agreement, which Plaintiff has admitted that
it, through Jason Hsu, signed on February 17, 2021.  (Ko Decl., Ex. E, Agreement; Hsu Decl.,
¶ 7, subd. (a) [the Agreement “was signed only by me on February 17,
2021”].)  
Thus, as to
the Agreement that is the subject of this motion, Plaintiff (1) does not
dispute that its CEO and owner signed it, and (2) has not shown that the
subject Agreement was signed by Plaintiff as a result of fraud in the inception
or execution.  
Moreover,
to the extent that Plaintiff contends that the Agreement is invalid because it
was signed only by Plaintiff, the court disagrees.  “[T]he writing memorializing an arbitration
agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding
arbitration agreement.”  (Serafin v.
Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.)  “Evidence confirming the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate, despite an unsigned agreement, can be based, for
example, on ‘conduct from which one could imply either ratification or implied
acceptance of such a provision.’”  (Ibid.)  The court finds that Defendants’ conduct
“evinces an intent to be bound by the arbitration agreement” by moving to
compel arbitration, irrespective of the fact that Predicate did not sign the
Agreement.  (Id. at pp. 176-177.) 
The court
therefore finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that the
Agreement is not authentic or invalid. 
Third, the
court notes that the Agreement was executed by and between Predicate (i.e.,
defendants Predicate Holdings, Inc. and Studio 88 Holdings, Inc., f/k/a
Predicate Holdings, Inc.), on the one hand, and Plaintiff, on the other hand,
but that all Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to submit its claims to
arbitration.  (Ko Decl., Ex. E,
Agreement, p. 1; Mot., p. 2:1-4.)  
“‘There are
circumstances in which nonsignatories to an agreement containing an arbitration
clause can be compelled to arbitrate under that agreement.  As one authority has stated, there are six
theories by which a nonsignatory may be bound to arbitrate: “(a) incorporation
by reference; (b) assumption; (c) agency; (d) veil-piercing or alter ego; (e)
estoppel; and (f) third-party beneficiary” [citations].’”  (Benaroya v. Willis (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 462, 469.)  Plaintiff has
alleged that (1) defendants Predicate, Studio 88, and J. Adams were and are the
alter egos of defendant Ko, or vice versa, and (2) all Defendants were “the
agent, servant, representative, partner, joint venturer and/or employee of each
of the remaining Defendants and in doing the things alleged herein were acting
within the scope of said agency, service, representative, partnership, joint
venture and/or employment.”  (Compl.,
¶¶ 8-9, 11.)  Thus, the non-signatory
defendants may rely on the Agreement to compel Plaintiff to submit its claims
to arbitration as an alter ego of the signatory defendants (Ko and J. Adams) or
as agents of the signatory defendants (Ko, J. Adams, and Zhou).  (Benaroya, supra, 23
Cal.App.5th at p. 469.) 
Fourth, the
court finds that all of Plaintiff’s causes of action are encompassed by the
Agreement. 
“‘ “[T]he
decision as to whether a contractual arbitration clause covers a particular
dispute rests substantially on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or
‘narrow.’ ” ’  [Citations.]  A broad clause includes language that
requires arbitration of ‘ “ ‘any claim arising from or related to’
” ’ the agreement.”  (Ahern v. Asset
Management Consultants, Inc. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 675, 689 [emphasis in
original].)  Here, as set forth above,
the Agreement states that “[a]ny controversy or claim relating to this
Agreement shall be settled by arbitration.” 
(Ko Decl., Ex. E, Agreement, p. A50, § VIII, subd. (A) [emphasis
added].)  The court therefore finds that
the arbitration clause in the Agreement is broad.  (Ahern, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th
at p. 689.) 
“It has
long been the rule in California that a broadly worded arbitration clause . . .
may extend to tort claims that may arise under or from the contractual
relationship.  There is no requirement
that the cause of action arising out of a contractual dispute must be
itself       contractual . . . .  Put another way, [f]or a party’s claims to
come within the scope of such a clause, the factual allegations of the
complaint need only touch matters covered by the contract containing the
arbitration clause.  [Citation.]  Broad arbitration clauses are interpreted to
apply to extracontractual disputes between the contracting parties, so long as
they have their roots in the relationship between the parties which was created
by the contract.”  (Howard v. Goldbloom (2018)
30 Cal.App.5th 659, 663-664 [internal quotations omitted] [internal citations
omitted].) 
The court finds that the causes of action alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint are covered by the Agreement’s arbitration clause.[1]

The first cause of action for breach of oral contract alleges that
Plaintiff and Predicate orally agreed that Plaintiff would pay to Predicate 6.5
percent of Amazon deposits, less the costs of marketing, and Defendants have
breached the agreement by claiming that Plaintiff owes 6.5 percent of its gross
sales based on the allegedly fraudulent agreement that contains the forged
signature of Plaintiff.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 28, 30, 26.)  The court finds
that this cause of action is “relat[ed] to” the Agreement because (1) the terms
of the oral agreement appear to be related and identical to the terms of the
Agreement, and (2) the oral agreement appears to have arisen out of the
contractual relationship initially created by the Services Agreement and
continued by Plaintiff’s signing of the Agreement.  (Ko Decl., Ex. E, Agreement, p. A50, § VIII,
subd. (A); Compl., ¶¶ 23, subd. (c) [the Agreement stated that
compensation to be paid by Plaintiff was 6.5 percent of Amazon’s deposits, less
marketing], 21.)  
The third cause of action for fraud (misrepresentation), fourth cause
of action for fraud (false promise), and sixth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation each alleges that Defendants misrepresented, either
intentionally or negligently, to Plaintiff that Predicate would be paid 6.5
percent of Amazon’s deposits, less the marketing costs.  (Compl., ¶¶ 40, subd. (a), 50, subd.
(a), 53, 68-69.)  As set forth above,
this representation appears to reflect a term of the Agreement, and therefore
the court finds that the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action are related
to (1) the Agreement and (2) the contractual relationship between the parties
that was created by this Agreement. 
(Compl., ¶ 23, subd. (c).) 
Similarly, the fifth cause of action for fraud (concealment) is based on
the allegation that Defendants concealed from Plaintiff that Predicate would
not accept payments reflecting 6.5 percent of Amazon’s deposits, less marketing
costs, and would instead request and demand 6.5 percent of the gross
sales.  (Compl., ¶ 59.)  The court finds that this cause of action is
related to the Agreement because (1) the alleged concealment of the material
fact appears to represent a term of the Agreement (i.e., that Plaintiff would
pay to Predicate 6.5 percent of Amazon’s deposits, less marketing), and (2) the
concealment is alleged to have occurred as a result of the contractual
relationship created by the Agreement.  
(Id., ¶¶ 59, 23, subd. (c).) 
The seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations, intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, and negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage, respectively, are based on the allegations that (1)
Defendants knew of two agreements, including the oral agreement that Plaintiff
would pay to Predicate 6.5 percent of Amazon’s deposits, less marketing costs,
and interfered with those agreements by creating the forged and fraudulent
second agreement, and (2) Plaintiff and Predicate had an economic relationship
pursuant to their agreements, with which Defendants interfered by creating the
forged and fraudulent second agreement. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 72-74, 84-86, 93-97.) 
The court finds that the interference causes of action are related to
the Agreement because they appear to be based on the oral agreement, which
reflects the terms of the Agreement as set forth above, and the parties’
contractual relationship that was created and/or continued thereby.  
            Thus, the court finds that (1)
Defendants have met their burden to show that they may enforce the arbitration
clause in the Agreement against Plaintiff; (2) Plaintiff has not met its burden
to show that the Agreement is invalid; and (3) the causes of action alleged in
Plaintiff’s Complaint are encompassed by the Agreement. 
            The court therefore grants
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Joe Ko,
Louisa Zhou, Predicate Holdings, Inc., Studio 88 Holdings, Inc., f/k/a
Predicate Holdings, Inc., and J. Adams Fashion, LLC’s motion to compel
arbitration. 
            The court orders (1) plaintiff
Zooshoo, Inc. and defendants Joe Ko, Louisa Zhou, Predicate Holdings, Inc.,
Studio 88 Holdings, Inc., f/k/a Predicate Holdings, Inc., and J. Adams Fashion,
LLC to arbitrate the claims alleged in plaintiff Zooshoo, Inc.’s Complaint, and
(2) this action is stayed until arbitration is completed. 
            The court vacates the trial set for
October 16, 2024, and the Final Status Conference set for October 4, 2024.
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re completion of arbitration for
August 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
            
 
 
 
 
The court orders defendants Joe Ko, Louisa Zhou, Predicate Holdings,
Inc., Studio 88 Holdings, Inc., f/k/a Predicate Holdings, Inc., and J. Adams
Fashion, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 6, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


