  Case Number:  18STCV09180    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – central district
Department
53
 
 




ALLISON
  CERVANTES,
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
OCEAN AVENUE LLC, D/B/A
   FAIRMONT MIRAMAR HOTELS

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV09180




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   6, 2023




 


 




             


 




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
mOTIONs in limine  
 



 
            The court rules on plaintiff’s and
defendants’ motions in limine as follows. 

Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 1
            Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation
as to plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 1, the court orders that the parties
shall not make reference to, or introduce evidence of, the fact that entities
and claims were once named or asserted in this action and subsequently
dismissed.  (Joint
Stipulation Regarding Motions In Limine, filed November 30, 2023, p. 2.)  
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 2
            Plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 2
seeks “to preclude Defendants from introducing evidence or reference to
Plaintiff’s alleged use of cocaine and marijuana.”  (Plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 2, filed
November 28, 2023, p. 2:4-6.)  Defendants
do not oppose plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 2 “as pertains to any period of
time before Plaintiff’s employment.”  (Defendant’s
opposition to plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 2, filed November 30, 2023, p. 4:4-5.)  
The court grants plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 2 in part, and
denies it in part, as follows.
The court orders that defendant shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, plaintiff’s alleged use of cocaine or marijuana before plaintiff’s
employment with defendants began in August 2017.  
The court denies plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 2 as to plaintiff’s
alleged use of cocaine or marijuana after plaintiff’s employment with
defendants began in August 2017. 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 3
            Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation
as to plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 3, plaintiff has agreed to withdraw this
motion, provided that James R. High, M.D. is made available for deposition at a
mutually agreeable date and time.  (Joint
Stipulation Regarding Motions In Limine, filed November 30, 2023, p. 2.)
Defendants’
Motion in Limine No. 1

Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation as to defendants’ motion in
limine no. 1, the court orders that the parties shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, settlement negotiations, mediation, and materials
related thereto.  (Joint Stipulation
Regarding Motions In Limine, filed November 30, 2023, p. 2.)    
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 2

Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation as to defendants’ motion in
limine no. 2, the court orders that (1) all nonparty witnesses are excluded from
the courtroom unless presently testifying and (2) once a nonparty witness has
testified, they are permitted to remain in the courtroom during trial
proceedings.  (Joint Stipulation
Regarding Motions In Limine, filed November 30, 2023, p. 2.)   
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 3
            The court denies defendants’ motion
in limine no. 3 because (1) it does not identify the specific evidence that
plaintiff contends is inadmissible and should be excluded (Los Angeles County
Court Rules, Rule 3.57(a)(1)), and (2) defendants have not established good
cause to exclude any evidence or witnesses to be offered by plaintiff.
 
     
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 4
            The court denies defendants’ motion
in limine no. 4 because (1) it does not identify the specific evidence that
plaintiff contends is inadmissible and should be excluded (Los Angeles County
Court Rules, Rule 3.57(a)(1)), and (2) Evidence Code section 800 permits a
witness not testifying as an expert to give testimony in the form of an opinion
under certain circumstances.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 5  
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 3 because (1) it
does not identify the specific evidence that plaintiff contends is inadmissible
and should be excluded (Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.57(a)(1)), and
(2) defendants have not established good cause to exclude any expert testimony
or evidence to be offered by plaintiff.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 6
Defendants move the court for an order excluding evidence and/or
testimony concerning harassment that did not involve plaintiff or was not
directed at plaintiff, including testimony from the following individuals:  Hugh Fitzgerald (“Fitzgerald”), Shannon
Leavitt (“Leavitt”), Jamilah Bazille (“Bazille”), and Brianna Green (“Green”).  The court grants defendants’ motion in limine
no. 6 in part, and denies it in part, as follows.    
Defendants’ motion in limine appears to challenge two categories of
evidence: (1) the testimony from third party employees attesting to defendant
Mornay’s allegedly harassing conduct, and (2) the testimony from third party
employees complaining about alleged harassment committed by other individuals
that were/are employed by defendant Ocean Avenue, LLC dba Fairmont Miramar
Hotels (“Fairmont”) but were not sued as defendants in this action.  (Not. of Mot., p. 1:25-26; Mot., p. 3:25-27 [defendants
move to exclude “all evidence or testimony of unrelated allegations against Defendants
and against non-party employees”] [emphasis added].) 
The court finds that this testimony is admissible as “me too”
evidence. 
“Courts have sanctioned the use of ‘me too’ evidence, which is
evidence of an employer’s alleged gender bias ‘in the form of harassing
activity against women employees other than the plaintiff’ in certain
circumstances.”  (Pinter-Brown v. Regents of University of
California (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 55, 96.)  “The relevance of
evidence concerning conduct toward nonparty employees is inherently ‘“fact
based and depends on many factors, including how closely related the evidence
is to the plaintiff’s circumstances and theory of the case.”’”  (Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 871.)  “‘Me
too’ evidence is therefore not subject to any per se rule of exclusion, and may
be admissible to prove a defendant’s motive or intent even where the conduct
occurred outside the plaintiff’s presence and at times other than when the
plaintiff was employed.”  (Ibid.)  “Although ‘me too’
evidence can be admissible to prove intent, motive, and the like with respect
to the plaintiff’s own protected class, it is never admissible to prove an
employer’s propensity to harass.”  (Pinter-Brown, supra,
48 Cal.App.5th at p. 96.) 
First, the court finds that the testimony from Bazille, Green, and
Leavitt setting forth other similar harassing conduct by defendant Mornay is
admissible as me too evidence.[1]

As set forth above, “[t]he relevance of evidence concerning conduct
toward nonparty employees is” based on the facts and various factors,
“including how closely related the evidence is to plaintiff’s circumstances and
theory of the case.”  (Meeks, supra,
24 Cal.App.5th at p. 871 [internal quotations omitted].)  
Here, plaintiff has alleged, in support of her first cause of action
for sex/gender harassment and second cause of action for sex/gender
discrimination, that defendants created a “sexually charged and hostile
atmosphere for female employees” based on (1) defendant Mornay’s acts in
harassing plaintiff, including by, for example, touching, grabbing, and
caressing her body and whispering sexual innuendos in her ear, and (2) the
kitchen staff’s taking Mornay’s lead and engaging in the same behavior, thereby
creating a “sexually charged and hostile atmosphere for female employees.” 
(Compl., ¶¶ 20, subds. (b)-(e), (j), 45, subd. (k).)  The court finds that the testimony in the
declarations of Bazille, Green, and Leavitt is “closely related” to the
circumstances that plaintiff alleged in her Complaint and her theory of the
case since it describes similar harassment on the part of Mornay.  (Meeks, supra,
24 Cal.App.5th at p. 871; Pl. Opp., Ex. 1, Bazille Decl., ¶¶ 7, 14; Pl.
Opp., Ex. 2, Green Decl., ¶¶ 7-9; Pl. Opp., Ex. 3, Leavitt Decl.,
¶ 8.)  
Further, although defendants argue in reply that plaintiff, Bazille,
Green, and Leavitt are not “similarly situated” because they did not all hold
the same position as plaintiff (who was a server), were not all supervised by
Mornay, and did not have personal knowledge about plaintiff’s alleged incidents
of harassment, the court disagrees.
Bazille, Green, and Leavitt worked for Fairmont, at the Fig Restaurant,
with plaintiff as hostesses (Bazille and Green) or a host (Leavitt); considered
Mornay to be a supervisor of the kitchen, as he was a chef; and described the
same type of sexual harassment at issue in plaintiff’s Complaint (i.e., Mornay
made sexual innuendos, commented on their appearances, and asked about their
dating lives).  (Pl. Opp., Ex. 1, Bazille Decl., ¶¶ 5-7; Pl. Opp.,
Ex. 2, Green Decl., ¶¶ 5-9, 11; Pl. Opp., Ex. 3, Leavitt Decl.,
¶¶ 5-6, 8; Compl., ¶ 20, subds. (e), (f), (g).)  Thus, the court finds that they are similarly
situated and that their testimony is closely related to the conduct complained
of by plaintiff in this action.  (Johnson
v. United Cerebral Palsy/Spastic Children’s Foundation of Los Angeles and
Ventura County (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 759 [concluding that “me
too” declarations from other employees attesting that they, like plaintiff,
were fired after they became pregnant constituted substantial evidence sufficient
to establish a triable issue of material fact, noting that “[t]hese employees
worked at the same facilities where plaintiff worked[ and] they were supervised
by the same people that supervised plaintiff”].) Moreover, although defendants
argue that these individuals did not have personal knowledge of Mornay’s
conduct toward plaintiff, they have not explained why their lack of personal
knowledge of plaintiff’s harassment renders the evidence inadmissible or
irrelevant.
Second, the court finds that the testimony from Bazille, Green,
Leavitt, and Fitzgerald describing harassing conduct by other non-party
employees is admissible as me too evidence or testimony from a percipient
witness. 
Bazille, Green, Leavitt all attributed the harassing conduct on the
part of the other kitchen staff members (i.e., the non-party employees) to have
been fostered by Mornay and permitted by Fairmont’s supervisors and
managers.  (Pl. Opp., Ex. 1, Bazille Decl., ¶¶ 10 [“it was the entire
environment of the kitchen, led by [Mornay], that was inappropriate
and sexual in nature”] [emphasis added], 12-14; Pl. Opp., Ex. 2, Green Decl., ¶
12 [other kitchen staff members would harass Green and the “entire environment
of the kitchen [] was inappropriate and sexual in nature”]; Pl. Opp., Ex. 3,
Leavitt Decl., ¶¶ 9 [the kitchen staff would “follow [Mornay’s] lead, and act
in a sexually inappropriate manner”], 14 [this conduct took place in the open,
such that it is very likely that managers observed this conduct and “swept [it]
under the rug or ignored it”].) 
Fitzgerald further attested to the “kitchen’s sexually hostile culture”
and attested that Fitzgerald personally observed that the kitchen staff “push[ed]
forward a ‘male locker room talk’ type of workplace.”  (Pl. Opp., Ex. 4, Fitzgerald Decl.,
¶ 6.)
The court finds that this testimony regarding harassment from other
kitchen staff members – who are claimed to have followed Mornay’s lead or have
been part of a sexually charged and hostile environment that Mornay created – is
relevant and admissible because (1) it is related to the circumstances
regarding the creation of a hostile work environment and Fairmont’s
ratification thereof, as alleged in the Complaint, and (2) it is related to plaintiff’s
theory of the case, which alleges three causes of action for sex/gender
harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, based at least in part on Mornay’s
conduct and the conduct of other kitchen staff members who were following his
lead and created a hostile work environment.  (Meeks, supra,
24 Cal.App.5th at p. 871; Compl., ¶¶ 20, subd. (j) [alleging that
“[o]ther members of the kitchen staff also took Defendant Manager Mornay’s
lead, and . . . creat[ed] a generally sexually charged and hostile atmosphere
for female employees”], 25 [alleging that “Defendant Fairmont . . . ratified
and condoned the unlawful conduct”].) 
Third, the court denies defendants’ request that the court exclude
this evidence pursuant to Evidence Code section 352 because the court finds
that this testimony’s probative value is not substantially outweighed by the
probability that its admission will necessitate undue consumption of time or
create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of
misleading the jury.  
The court therefore denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 6 except
as set forth below.
The court grants defendants’ motion on limine no. 6 in part, to the
extent it seeks to exclude Shannon Leavitt’s testimony about Fairmont’s managers’
treatment of her based on her disabilities as described in paragraph 15 of her
declaration, dated September 13, 2018, because that testimony (1) is not
relevant (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its discretion to
exclude such evidence because its probative value is substantially outweighed
by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of
time and (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the
issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid. Code, § 352).
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 7
The court grants defendants’ motion on limine
no. 7 in part, to the extent it seeks to exclude plaintiff’s Exhibit 108 (“Dirk
Mornay Facebook” social media posts), because defendant Dirk D’Jon Mornay’s social
media posts set forth in Exhibit 108 (1) are not relevant (Evid. Code, § 350),
and (2) the court exercises its discretion to exclude such evidence because its
probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create substantial
danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury
(Evid. Code, § 352).

Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 8
The court deems defendants’ motion in limine no. 8 to be a request
that the court preclude the admission of evidence of defendants’ financial
condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff
awarding actual damages and finds that defendants are guilty of malice,
oppression, or fraud in accordance with Civil Code section 3294.  (Civ. Code, § 3295,
subd. (d).)  
Plaintiff does not oppose defendants’ motion in limine no. 8 to the
extent it requests that relief.  The
parties have stipulated that no party shall reference any of defendants’ net
worth during the liability phase of the trial. 
(Joint Stipulation Regarding Motions In Limine, filed November 30, 2023,
p. 2.)       
The court orders that the trial of this action is bifurcated ((1)
first, to try the issues of liability and actual damages, and (2) second, if
necessary, to try plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages if the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that
defendants are guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Civil
Code section 3294. (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).)  
The orders that plaintiff is precluded from making reference to, or introducing
evidence of, defendants’ financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that
defendants are guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Civil
Code section 3294.  (Civ. Code, § 3295,
subd. (d).)
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 9
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 9 on the grounds
that (1) “[e]vidence that a person was, at the time a harm was suffered by
another, insured wholly or partially against loss arising from liability for
that harm is inadmissible to prove negligence or other wrongdoing” (Evid. Code,
§ 1155), (2) evidence of insurance coverage is not relevant (Evid. Code, § 350),
and (3) the court exercises its discretion to exclude such evidence because its
probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create
substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of
misleading the jury (Evid. Code, § 352). 

The court orders that plaintiff shall not make reference to, or introduce
evidence of, insurance coverage.
  
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  December 6, 2023
 
 
_____________________________
Robert B. Broadbelt III
Judge of the Superior Court


