 Case Number:  23NWCV00856    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  C huang v. jaguar land
rover
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00856
HEARING:   12/13/23 @ 9:30 AM
#6
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Lenny Huang (Plaintiff) moves to
compel Defendant’s further response to Request for Production (set one)
pursuant to CCP § 2031.310.
Background
On
March 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant Jaguar Land Rover
North America (Defendant) for alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Act for
failure to repair or repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle and against Swickard
Oakland Corporation for negligent repair.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Meet and Confer
The Court finds that the parties
adequately met and conferred.
Discussion

Plaintiff seeks further responses to Requests
Nos. 1-37. Requests Nos. 1-16 and 34-35 are moot because Defendant served
further responses.
Requests Nos. 17-27 and 29-31 seek documents related to Defendant’s lemon law policies and
procedures. Request No. 28 seeks documents related to Defendant’s call center
policies and procedures. Requests Nos. 32 and 36 seek generalized lemon law
statistics. Requests Nos. 33 and 37 seek documents related to similar vehicles.
Defendant is ordered to provide further
responses to Requests Nos. 17-27 and 29-31 because these requests seek
documents within the scope of discovery. The Requests are overbroad as to time.
However, Defendant’s lemon law policies and procedures from the date of
purchase to the filing of Plaintiff’s lawsuit are within the scope of discovery
because they are relevant to proving whether Defendant followed its policies
and procedures as to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Therefore, Defendant is ordered to
provide further responses to Requests Nos. 16-27 and 29-31 with the limitation
that it shall produce responsive documents published from the date of purchase
to the date of filing.
Defendant has adequately responded to Request
No. 28 because the request is outside the scope of discovery. Here, the only
cause of action in the pleadings against Defendant is for violation of the
Song-Beverly Act. The basis of Song-Beverly is that Plaintiff’s vehicle had
defects and nonconformities and (1) Defendant was not able to conform the
vehicle to the applicable warranties within a reasonable number of attempts and
failed to replace the vehicle or make restitution; (2) Defendant failed to
service or repair the vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties
within 30 days; (3) Defendant failed to make available to its authorized
service and repair facilities sufficient literature and replacement parts to
effect repairs during the express warranty period; and (4) the vehicle was not
suitable for its intended use due to the defects that manifested. The Court
fails to see how information relating to Defendant’s customer service number is
relevant to this lawsuit. Thus, Plaintiff’s request for further response to
Request No. 28 is denied.
Defendant has adequately responded to Request
No. 32 and 36 because the requests are not relevant to the issues of the case
and seek only general information that cannot be particularized to information
relevant to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Thus, Plaintiff’s requests for further
responses to Requests Nos. 32 and 36 are denied.
Defendant
is ordered to provide further responses to Requests Nos. 33 and 37 because these requests
seek documents within the scope of discovery. Defendant produced no documents
to these requests. The Requests are overbroad as to scope because they seek
documents related to vehicles outside of California.  Therefore, Defendant is ordered to provide
further responses to Requests Nos. 33 and 37 with the limitation that it shall
produce responsive documents for California vehicles.
Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories or demand for production of documents
unless the party subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300,
subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h), 2033.290, subd. (d).) 
The
Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial justification.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Their Requests for Production is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in party as set forth above.
 
 