  Case Number:  23STCV07695    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Westside Lighting, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Defendant Aaron Green’s Answer and
Enter Default Based on Violation of Court Order
            Plaintiff
Westside Lighting, Inc. moves to strike defendant Aaron Green’s answer as a
discovery sanction.  Code of Civil
Procedure 2023.030(d)(1) provides, “The court may impose a terminating sanction
by … striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging
in the misuse of the discovery process.”
            Plaintiff
does not show adequate grounds for terminating sanctions.  Discovery sanctions
should be imposed incrementally, “starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with
the ultimate sanction of termination.”  (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  “[A] terminating sanction should
generally not be imposed until the court has attempted less severe alternatives
and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the record clearly shows lesser
sanctions would be ineffective.”  (Ibid.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “such as are suitable
and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of
the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to accomplish the
objects of discovery but to impose punishment.” 
(Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)  
            Defendant
Aaron Green violated the court’s order dated April 19, 2024, compelling further
discovery responses and imposing monetary sanctions.  Green did not pay the monetary sanctions.  That alone cannot justify terminating
sanctions.  (Newland v. Superior Court
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.)  But Green
also did not serve supplemental responses within the time allowed.  He later served some supplemental responses along
with his opposition.  (McGuinness Decl.,
Exs. 1-3.)  These responses again include
evasive or incomplete answers.  Even so,
striking Green’s answer now would cross the line between accomplishing the
objects of discovery and imposing punishment. 
Though monetary sanctions are unlikely to be effective, issue or
evidence sanctions (CCP § 2023.030, subds. (b) & (c)) would likely suffice
to accomplish the objects of discovery.  Plaintiff
did not move for any intermediate sanctions short of termination.  
  Disposition
Plaintiff Westside
Lighting, Inc.’s motion to strike defendant Aaron Green’s answer is denied.  