 Case Number:  23SMCV02465    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



KSFB MANAGEMENT, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FOCUS FINANCIAL PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV02696
 
  Hearing Date:  October 22, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  plaintiff ksfb management llc’s 
  MOTION TO COMPEL rudy adolf, 
  leonard chang and focus 
  financial llc’s person most 
  qualified to appear and answer 
  questions at deposition and 
  produce documents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
 This action relates to a dispute over a
non-compete provision.  Defendant Focus
Financial Partners LLC (“Focus”) is an acquirer of, and investor in, financial
wealth management firms and other financial services firms.  (Compl. ¶6.) 
Focus—through its wholly owned subsidiary NKSFB, LLC (“NKSFB”)—acquired
substantially all assets of Nigro Karlin Segal Feldstein & Bolno, LLC
(“Nigro Karlin”), a business management firm. 
(Id. ¶¶ 6, 16.)  At the
same time, the principals of Nigro Karlin formed a management company—Plaintiff
KSFB Management LLC (“KSFB”) – through which those principals would pursuant to
a Management Agreement, manage and oversee the NKSFB business.  (Id. ¶ 17.)
As
part of the initial acquisition, KSFB and its principals agreed to a Transaction
Management Agreement (“TMA”).  (Id.
¶ 18.)  The TMA contains a
non-competition covenant which applied for two years following the termination
of (a) the TMA or (b) a principal’s employment or affiliation with KSFB.  (Id.) 
The parties also signed a separate Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
Agreement, which contained a five year non-compete expiring on April 1, 2023,
which KSFB concedes is valid and enforceable. 
(Id. ¶ 19.)
On
July 1, 2022, the parties entered into an Amended and Restated Management
Agreement (“ARMA”) which is an amended and restated version of the TMA.  (Id. ¶ 20.) The ARMA contains a
materially similar non-competition covenant to the one to which the parties
agreed in the TMA.  The ARMA’s
non-compete also applied for two years following the termination of (a) the
ARMA or (b) a principal’s employment or affiliation with KSFB.  (Id. ¶¶ 21, 25.) 
On
June 7, 2023, KSFB sued Focus, seeking a declaratory judgment that the ARMA’s
non-compete is not enforceable under California law.  The operative complaint alleges two claims
for (1) declaratory relief and (2) injunctive relief.  
On
January 24, 2024, KSFB noticed the depositions of Focus’ witnesses: Leonard
Chang (Focus’ co-founder and former senior managing director & head of
M&A), Rudy Adolf (Focus’ former chairman and CEO) and Focus’ person most
qualified (“PMQ”) in February 2024.  (Exs.
A-C to Calkins Decl.)  Focus’ counsel
agreed to accept service of the notices on behalf of Messrs. Chang and Adolf,
even though they were no longer employed by Focus.  (Ex. D to Calkins Decl.) 
On
February 27, 2024, Focus’ counsel offered two dates, one each for Mr. Adolf and
Mr. Chang – neither of which worked with Plaintiff’s calendar.  Counsel promised to provide a date for the
PMQ deposition once an agreement as to the scope of the deposition was
reached.  (Ex. G to Calkins Decl.)  
The
parties ultimately agreed on Topics 2-5, but there remains a dispute as to
Topics 6-8.  (Ex. O to Calkins Decl.)  Topic No. 6 asks for “All facts RELATING TO
the dispute between FOCUS and PLAINTIFF REGARDING the two year non-compete
restriction in the ARMA.”  (Ex. A to
Calkins Decl.)  Topic No. 7 asks for “All
facts RELATING TO bid packages sent by GOLDMAN AND/OR FOCUS to prospective
purchasers of FOCUS.”  (Id.)  Topic No. 8 asks for “All facts RELATING TO
the potential sale of FOCUS.  (Id.)
On
July 1, 2024, the parties finally agreed on dates and locations for the
depositions, August 22, 2024 in San Francisco for Mr. Chang and August 29 in
Miami for Mr. Adolf.  (Ex. J to Calkins
Decl.)  KSFB’s counsel confirmed and
re-confirmed these dates and locations in writing in July and August.  (Id.)
On July
3, 2024, Focus noticed the depositions of KSFB executives and PMQ for two weeks
before the dates confirmed by counsel for the depositions of
Focus’ witnesses.  (Ex. K  to Calkins Decl.)  Focus’ counsel threatened not to produce any
Focus witnesses for deposition, unless KSFB agreed to provide dates for the
KSFB witnesses.  (Ex. M to Calkins
Decl.)  KSFB provided dates during the
second half of September for KSFB’s depositions and asked for August dates for
Focus’ PMQ.  (Ex. N to Calkins
Decl.)  Focus’ counsel then informed
KSFB’s counsel that Mr. Chang was no longer available for his deposition due to
a new “scheduling conflict” and demanded Focus depose KSFB witnesses
first.  (Ex. O to Calkins Decl.)
On
August 29, 2024, the parties met and conferred during which Focus’ counsel
stated that KSFB should either agree to his new “reasonable” deposition
arrangement or it could happen the “hard way” with Focus “noticing KSFB’s
deposition for dates, taking a non-appearance, then filing a motion and seeking
sanctions.”  (Ex. P to Calkins Decl.)  
The
parties attended two informal discovery conferences (“IDCs”) on deposition
scheduling, but no agreement was reached. 
The Court encouraged the parties to agree on a deposition schedule.  Focus’ counsel provided the availability of
witnesses in November.  KSFB’s counsel
offered dates around Defendant’s witnesses’ stated availability, but Defendant
would not agree.   
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A
properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party or
party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce
documents for inspection and copying. (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
If the deponent named in a
deposition notice is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which the examination is
requested.  The deponent shall designate
and produce at the deposition its officers, directors, managing agents,
employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to
those matters.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party … fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document … described in the deposition notice, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production … of any document … described in the deposition
notice.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth facts showing good
cause justifying the demand for any documents and must include a meet and
confer declaration.  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (b)(1), (b)(2).)
 
MEET AND CONFER
            KSFB submits
the Declaration of Rebecca Calkins in support of its meet and confer
requirements.  The declaration attests
the parties met and conferred at length on deposition scheduling and attended two
IDCs, but no agreement was reached.  (Calkins
Decl. ¶¶
14-17.)  The Court concludes KSFB has met its
obligations to meet and confer.    
DISCUSSION
Chang
and Adolf
It is baffling to this Court that the parties cannot
agree on deposition scheduling on depositions noticed more than nine months
ago, in January 2024.  Focus cannot
“game” the system by serving deposition notices with dates earlier than it
offered to KSFB when KSFB noticed the depositions of Focus’ witnesses months
earlier.  Focus also cannot offer dates
of availability designed to ensure its depositions of KSFB witnesses take place
before the depositions of its own witnesses. 

Notwithstanding, the Court agrees with Focus that
KSFB’s motion to compel is procedurally defective.  A motion to compel a deposition is only
proper if the deponent “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with” a
properly noticed deposition.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.450(a).)  KSFB’s motion does
not satisfy § 2025.450’s requirements because KSFB did not properly notice Mr.
Chang’s August 22 deposition or Mr. Adolf’s August 29 deposition.  
KSFB accepted the August 22 date offered for Mr.
Chang’s deposition and agreed that the deposition would occur in San
Francisco.  The parties also agreed that
Mr. Adolf’s deposition would take place in Miami on August 29.  But KSFB never issued notices for their depositions,
including the address, start time, etc.  KSFB’s
failure to serve proper deposition notices for the August 22 and August 29 depositions
dooms its motions to compel.  
Notwithstanding, in the interest of moving this case
along and to avoid further gamesmanship, the Court will order that Focus make Mr.
Chang available on the dates it previously provided to Plaintiff (November 21
or 22).  As to Mr. Adolf, Focus is
ordered to provide dates for the deposition of Mr. Adolf within 5 days of this
Order.  
KSFB
also requests that this Court order Mr. Chang and Mr. Adolf to produce
documents responsive to RFPs 6–8 attached to the original deposition notices
because those requests “are identical to requests this Court recently ruled
upon in KSFB’s favor (as narrowed).”  KSFB
has not shown the requisite good cause to obtain this discovery from these third
party deponents. 
A
motion to compel the production of documents described in a deposition notice
must “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document.” (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).)  KSFB does not explain why it is seeking documents
from third parties that are available from a party.  KSFB admits that it has sought the same
documents from Focus, and it provides no justification for why it needs the
same documents from these deponents who are no longer employed by Focus.  Under circumstances like those present here,
California courts routinely deny requests for discovery from third parties.  (See, e.g., Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Ct., 53 Cal. App. 4th 216, 225 (1997) (“As between parties to
litigation and nonparties, the burden of discovery should be placed on the
latter only if the former do not possess the material sought to be
discovered.”).  
Focus’
PMQ
Focus
argues that KSFB cannot move to compel the deposition of Focus’ PMQ because
Focus has not refused to appear for deposition. 
Rather, Focus claims it made clear it would provide dates for its PMQ witness
once the parties came to an agreement on the scope of the deposition.  And an agreement on scope only recently
became possible after the Court resolved the parties’ disputes concerning the
proper scope of KSFB’s RFPs which mirrored the noticed Topics.  
Focus
previously agreed to produce a witness on Topics 2-5, and now agrees to also
produce a PMQ witness on Topics 6-8 as follows:  Topic 6 seeks “all facts” relating to the
parties’ dispute over the non-compete provision in the ARMA.  Focus agrees to produce a witness on “all
facts RELATING TO internal DOCUMENTS RELATING TO the dispute between FOCUS and
PLAINTIFF REGARDING THE two-year non-compete restriction in the ARMA.”  While the Court agrees with Focus that Topic
6 is overbroad, its narrowing is overly restrictive.  The Court will compel FOCUS to produce a witness
on “all facts supporting or disputing Focus’ claim that the non-compete
provision in the ARMA is enforceable.”  
Topic
7 seeks “all facts RELATING TO bid packages sent by GOLDMAN AND/OR FOCUS to
prospective purchasers of FOCUS.”  Topic
8 seeks “all facts RELATING TO the potential sale of Focus.”  As to these topics, Focus has agreed to
produce a witness on “All facts RELATING TO the potential sale of FOCUS that
discuss the non-compete provision in the ARMA.” 
The Court modifies these topics as follows: “ALL facts RELATING TO the
potential sale of FOCUS that relate to the non-compete provision in the
ARMA.”  
To
avoid further gamesmanship, the Court also compels Defendant to produce its PMQ
on the November dates it previously provided to Plaintiff (November 14 or 15).  The Court admonishes the parties to cooperate
in discovery, as there have has been far too many discovery motions in this
case.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN
PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff KSFB Management LLC’s motions
to compel depositions.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: October 22, 2024                                                   ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court