 Case Number:  23STCV07583    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




cecilia hailey

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
donda academy, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV07583




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Brian Brumfield         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant
The court considered
the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Brian Brumfield (“Defendant’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as
counsel of record for defendant Ye, a/k/a Kanye West (“Defendant”) in this
action.
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿¿ 
            The court finds that Defendant’s
Counsel (1) has served Defendant with the moving papers filed in connection
with this motion by mail at Defendant’s last known address, which Defendant’s
Counsel has confirmed within the past 30 days is current, and (2) has shown sufficient reasons why
the motion should be granted, and why counsel has brought the motion under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent
under section 284, subdivision (1).  (MC-052,
¶¶ 2, 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(1)(b).)  
However, the court notes two defects with Defendant’s Counsel’s
motion.
First, Defendant’s Counsel did not serve the moving papers “on all
other parties who have appeared in the case” as required.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd.
(d).)  Although Defendant’s Counsel
filed, on July 8, 2024, a proof of service purporting to establish service of
the moving papers on counsel for plaintiffs Cecilia Hailey, Chekarey Byers, and
Timanii Meeks, and counsel for defendant Donda Academy, Inc., that proof of
service is not signed and is therefore defective, invalid, and does not show
that Defendant’s Counsel served those parties with the moving papers.  (July 8, 2024 Proof of Service, p. 3.) 
            Second, the proposed “Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” is incomplete because it
does not state Defendant’s current or last known telephone number in section 6.
 
The court therefore finds that it is appropriate, and exercises its
discretion, to continue the hearing on this motion (1) to ensure that all other
parties who have appeared in this case have been given notice of the hearing on
Defendant’s Counsel’s motion, and (2) to provide Defendant’s Counsel an
opportunity to file a revised proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” that includes all required information.
ORDER
            The court orders that the hearing on
Brian Brumfield’s motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant Ye, a/k/a
Kanye West is continued to September 13, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53.
            The court orders Brian Brumfield (1)
to serve copies of the moving papers filed in connection with this motion on
all parties who have appeared in this action, (2) to file a proof of service of
the moving papers with the court no later than August 16, 2024, (3) to give
notice of this ruling to defendant Ye, a/k/a Kanye West, and all other parties
who have appeared in this action, and to file a proof of service of the notice
of ruling with the court no later than August 16, 2024, and (4) to lodge with
the court a revised proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel – Civil” that includes all required information no later than August
16, 2024.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court