  Case Number:  21STCV22711    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




marlyn jimenez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
rpb lending, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV22711




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant cp electric, llC
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Zulu Ali          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant CP Electric, LLC
The court considered
the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Zulu Ali (“Defendant’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel for
defendant CP Electric, LLC (“Defendant”) in this action.
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿¿ 
The court finds that
Defendant’s Counsel has not complied with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.
As set forth above, a motion
to be relieved as counsel “must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil (form
MC-052).”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1362, subd. (c) [emphasis added].)  Although Defendant’s Counsel filed a
declaration in support of this motion, Defendant’s Counsel did not use the
mandatory Judicial Council form (MC-052).[1]  (Mot., Attachment A, Ali Decl.)  Moreover, because Defendant’s Counsel did not
use the mandatory form, Defendant’s Counsel did not submit a declaration stating
facts showing that either (1) the service address is the current residence or
business address of Defendant, the client, or (2) the service address is the
last known residence or business address of Defendant, and Defendant’s Counsel
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd.
(d)(1).)  Finally, Defendant’s Counsel
did not lodge a proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel – Civil” on Judicial Council form MC-053.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd. (e)
[proposed order “must be lodged with the court with the moving papers”].) 
            The
court therefore denies attorney Zuli Ali’s motion to be relieved as counsel for
defendant CP Electric, LLC, without prejudice to Zuli Ali’s filing a new motion
to be relieved as counsel that complies with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.
            The court orders attorney Zuli Ali
to give notice of this ruling to defendant CP Electric, LLC, and to all other
parties who have appeared in this action.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


