 Case Number:  23STCV20565    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




shervin lalezary

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
godaddy.com, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV20565




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion to dismiss or stay plaintiff’s second amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to second amended complaint
(3)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of second amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Shervin Lalezary
(1)  
Motion
to Dismiss or Stay Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint
(2)  
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
(3)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
The court considered
the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the motion to
dismiss or stay, demurrer, and motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Shervin Lalezary
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint in this action against
defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC (“Defendant”) on January 24, 2024, alleging five
causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200 et seq., (3) false promise, (4) breach of contract, and (5)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
Now pending before the court
are the following three matters: (1) Defendant’s motion to dismiss or stay
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint; (2) Defendant’s demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint; and (3) Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the Second
Amended Complaint. 
MOTION TO DISMISS
Defendant moves the court for
an order dismissing or, alternatively, staying Plaintiff’s action pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 410.30, on the ground that there is a forum
selection clause that requires Plaintiff’s action to be filed in Arizona. 
“When a court upon motion of a
party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an
action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or
dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be
just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿410.30, subd. (a).)  “‘Section 410.30 is
a codification of the doctrine of forum non conveniens [citation], but the
principles governing enforcement of a forum selection clause are not the same
as those applicable to motions based on forum non conveniens.  [¶] 
In California, “forum selection clauses are valid and may be given effect, in
the court’s discretion and in the absence of showing that enforcement of such a
clause would be unreasonable.”  [Citation.]  [¶]  The burden of
proof is on the plaintiff, and the factors involved in traditional forum non
conveniens analysis do not control.  [Citation.]  “Instead, the forum
selection clause is presumed valid and will be enforced unless the plaintiff
shows that enforcement of the clause would be unreasonable under the
circumstance of the case.”  [Citations.]’”  (Korman v. Princess
Cruise Lines, Ltd. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 206, 213.)  
The court finds that Defendant
has not met its burden to show that the subject forum selection clause applies
to this action.
Defendant has submitted a copy
of the “Universal Terms of Service Agreement” (the “Agreement”).  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement.)  While the Agreement is unsigned, Defendant
has submitted the declaration of a Senior Manager – Sales Operations for
Defendant, Jessica Hanyen, in which Hanyen states that (1) all of Defendant’s
customers are required to agree to the Agreement before Defendant will provide the
purchased products or services;        (2)
“[n]o customer can use [Defendant’s] products or services unless and until they
have affirmatively consented to the [Agreement] and any other applicable
agreements[;]” (3) to agree to the Agreement, a customer (i) is taken to a
review page to review the order, (ii) is then taken to a checkout page, on
which the customer is presented with a “Complete Purchase” button, which
states, immediately below that button, “‘By clicking “Complete Purchase”, you
agree to our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy . . . .[,]’” the former
of which includes a hyperlink to the applicable contractual agreements, and
(iii) must then click on the “Complete Purchase” button; and (4) Defendant’s
records demonstrate that Plaintiff (i) has been a customer of Defendant’s since
approximately October 2004, (ii) made more than 50 purchases with Defendant
between January 1, 2022 and May 26, 2022, at which time Plaintiff “agreed to
the [Agreement] with each of these purchases[,]” and (iii) made more than 25
purchases with Defendant between June 1, 2022 and December 31, 2022, and has,
with each purchase, agreed to the Agreement. 
(Hanyen Decl., ¶¶ 7, 9-10, 12.) 
The Agreement includes an
arbitration agreement, which covers all disputes between Defendant and its customer—including
any dispute, claim, or action between the customer and Defendant involving
either party, “whether in contract, warranty, misrepresentation, fraud, tort,
intentional tort, statute, regulation, ordinance, or any other legal or
equitable basis”—except for those governed by the Uniform Domain Name Dispute
Resolution Policy as referenced in the Agreement and claims or causes of action
for trade secret misappropriation, patent infringement, copyright infringement
or misuse, and trademark infringement or dilution.  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subds.
(A) [defining “Dispute”], (B) [stating that “You and GoDaddy further agree: (i)
to arbitrate all Disputes between the parties pursuant to the provisions
in these Terms”] [emphasis added].)  Moreover,
the Agreement provides that, notwithstanding the arbitration provision, a
customer “may bring an individual action in the small claims court of [the
customer’s] state or municipality if the action is within that court’s
jurisdiction and is pending only in that court.”  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd.
(C).)  
The Agreement also includes a forum
selection clause that provides that, for “any controversy excluded from the
dispute resolution procedure and class action waiver provisions in this Section
(other than an individual action filed in small claims court)[,] [such
controversy] shall be filed only in the Superior Court of Maricopa County,
Arizona, or the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, and
each party irrevocably and unconditionally consents and submits to the
exclusive jurisdiction of such courts for any such controversy.”  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd.
(N).)  
Defendant contends that the
forum selection clause “requires any controversy not brought via binding
arbitration to instead” be filed in the courts specified in the Agreement
(i.e., certain courts in Arizona). 
(Mot., p. 4:5-7.)  However, the
language of the forum selection clause provides that the parties agree “that
any controversy excluded from the dispute resolution procedure and class
action waiver provisions” in that section shall be subject to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the specified Arizona courts. 
(Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd. (N) [emphasis added].)  Thus, the forum selection clause does not
require “any controversy not brought via binding arbitration” to be filed in the
specified Arizona courts as Defendant contends, but requires “any controversy
excluded from the dispute resolution procedure and class action waiver
provisions” to be filed in those courts.  (Ibid.; Mot., p. 4:5-7.) 
Defendant did not show that
the claims alleged in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint are “excluded from
the dispute resolution procedure and class action waiver provisions” set forth
in the Agreement.  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A,
Agreement, ¶ 22, subd. (N).)  Instead, it
appears that Defendant takes the position that those claims are covered by the
arbitration provision.  (Mot., p. 5:11-18;
Reply, pp. 1:10-14, 6:9-16 [arguing that the forum selection clause applies to
any dispute as defined in section 22, subdivision (A) of the Agreement].)  As set forth above, the parties’ Agreement
includes a provision requiring Defendant and its customer “to arbitrate all
Disputes between the parties pursuant to the provisions in these Terms . .
. .”  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶
22, subd. (B) [emphasis added].)  Thus,
because Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the
Agreement defining “Dispute,” his claims would be subject to the arbitration
provision and therefore his action does not constitute a “controversy excluded
from the dispute resolution procedure and class action waiver provisions” within
the meaning of the forum selection clause. 
(Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd. (N).)  
Moreover, Defendant did not
present argument or evidence showing that Plaintiff’s claims are not subject to
these provisions.  Defendant did not, for
example, present evidence showing that Plaintiff opted out of the arbitration
provision by following the procedure set forth in the Agreement.  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd.
(K) [setting forth 30-day opt-out procedure].)  It is also undisputed that Plaintiff has not
alleged claims for trade secret misappropriation, patent infringement,
copyright infringement or misuse, or trademark infringement or dilution.  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd.
(A) [excluding those claims from the definition of “Dispute”].) 
The court notes that, in
opposition, Plaintiff contends that the Agreement does not apply to his claims because there was no consummated “transaction” between them.  (Opp., p. 1:3-7.)  The court disagrees.  The claims asserted by Plaintiff in the
Second Amended Complaint fall within the scope of the arbitration provision
because (1) the term “Dispute” is defined to mean any dispute, claim, or action
between the customer and Defendant arising out of or relating to, inter alia,
“any other transaction involving [the customer, i.e., Plaintiff] and
[Defendant], whether in contract . . . , misrepresentation, fraud, tort,
intentional tort, [or] statute . . . .[,]” and (2) Plaintiff (i) has alleged
facts establishing that a transaction occurred between Plaintiff and Defendant
based on the allegations that (a) Defendant partnered with Saw.com in the sale
of domains, (b) Plaintiff purchased a domain name from Saw.com (with whom
Defendant was partnered), (c) Defendant later sent a false email to Plaintiff
informing him that he had cancelled the purchase, which harmed Plaintiff and
forced him to repurchase the domain name for an amount substantially above the
original contract price, and (ii) has alleged causes of action for fraud,
violation of statute (the unfair competition law), breach of contract, and
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, ¶ 22, subd.
(A); SAC ¶¶ 11-12, 15-16.)
Thus, the court finds that
Defendant has not met its burden to show that the forum selection clause
applies to Plaintiff’s action because (1) the plain language of the forum
selection clause states that it applies to “any controversy excluded from the
dispute resolution procedure and class action waiver provisions in” section 22
of the Agreement, and (2) Defendant did not show that the controversy alleged
in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is a “controversy excluded from the
dispute resolution procedure and class action waiver provisions” set forth in
the Agreement.  (Hanyen Decl., Ex. A,
Agreement, ¶ 22, subd. (N).) 
The court notes that Defendant
has cited authority establishing that the burden is on the plaintiff to show a
mandatory forum selection clause is unenforceable.  “It is true that a party seeking to avoid
enforcement of an otherwise applicable forum selection clause has the
burden of proving that such enforcement would be unreasonable.”  (Bushansky v. Soon-Shiong (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 1000, 1006 [emphasis in original]; Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 2015 [the party opposing enforcement of a forum
selection clause ordinarily bears the burden of proving why it should not be
enforced].)  However, “[w]here a
plaintiff brings suit in California, the potential applicability of a
contractual forum selection clause is raised by the defendant through a motion
to dismiss on grounds of forum non conveniens. 
[Citation.]”  (Bushansky, supra,
23 Cal.App.5th at p. 1005.)  Thus, the
moving party bears the initial burden.  (Ibid.)  The court therefore finds that, as the moving
party, Defendant had the initial burden of proving that the forum selection
clause is applicable to this action.  (Id.
at p. 1006 [finding that the “defendants’ burden-shifting argument puts the
cart before the horse in assuming the forum selection clause is otherwise
applicable” and noting that the question of applicability presented a
preliminary question of contract interpretation].) 
For the reasons set forth
above, the court finds that Defendant did not meet its burden to show that the
forum selection clause in the Agreement applies to this action.  The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion
to dismiss or stay Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) 
DEMURRER
Defendant moves the court for
an order sustaining its demurrer to each cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint.
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for fraud because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged
facts establishing justifiable reliance on the alleged misrepresentation that
resulted in damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023)
93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245 [elements of intentional misrepresentation].)  
Plaintiff has alleged the
actionable misrepresentation to be Defendant’s representation “regarding the
reason for the cancellation of the domain[,]” and, specifically, Defendant’s
representation that “the cancellation of the domain sale was because
[Plaintiff] canceled the product, when in fact, [Plaintiff] never cancelled the
sale of the domain.”  (SAC ¶¶ 19, 13.)  However, while Plaintiff has alleged that he
“reasonably relied on” that representation (SAC ¶ 21), Plaintiff did not allege
facts establishing that such reliance was reasonable in light of Plaintiff’s
personal knowledge of the facts underlying the representation (i.e., whether he
cancelled his purchase of the subject domain). 
(Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1230, 1239 [“‘[i]f the conduct of the plaintiff in the light of his
own intelligence and information was manifestly unreasonable, however, he will
be denied a recovery’”].)  Moreover,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that Defendant’s alleged
misrepresentation of the underlying reason for the cancellation was the cause
of his damages, rather than the cancellation of the purchase (and subsequent
repurchase) itself. 
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action for violation of the unfair competition
law because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
since Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing that he suffered an injury in
fact resulting in loss of money or property as a result of Defendant’s alleged
violations of the unfair competition law and therefore has not alleged
standing.[1]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 1204; Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 615 [finding the plaintiff “does not allege facts
demonstrating he has standing to sue under the UCL because he does not allege
sufficient facts showing a causal link between the alleged UCL violations and
an injury in fact resulting in loss of money or property”].)  Specifically, Plaintiff (1) bases this cause
of action on Defendant’s alleged misrepresentation of the reason for its
cancellation of Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject domain (SAC ¶¶ 25-27), but
(2) does not allege facts establishing how the purported misrepresentation of
the underlying reason for the cancellation caused him to “los[e] money or
property as a result” thereof, rather than Plaintiff’s loss of money suffered
as a result of the cancellation of his purchase itself and his subsequent
repurchase (SAC ¶ 16 [Plaintiff was forced to repurchase the domain]). 
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the third cause of action for false promise because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged, with the requisite particularity, facts establishing that Defendant
made a promise to Plaintiff without any intention of performing it at the time
the promise was made.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Missakian v. Amusement Industry, Inc. (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 630, 654 [elements of promissory fraud]; Rossberg v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1498 [“As with any other form of
fraud, each element of a promissory fraud claim must be alleged with
particularity”].)  
To the extent that Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendant promised to sell to Plaintiff the domain for a
specified amount (which is not alleged with particularity), that promise must
have been made by no later than May 26, 2022 (i.e., the purchase date of the
domain).  (SAC ¶ 12 [“On May 26, 2022,
[Plaintiff] purchased the domain Accident.org”].)  But Plaintiff has also alleged that, “on June
2, 2022,” the Chief Executive Officer and founder of Saw.com and an employee of
Defendant’s “conversed and decided that the Accident.org domain price was a
‘typo’ and should have been sold at a higher price point” (SAC ¶ 14).  Thus, the facts alleged in the Second Amended
Complaint show that Defendant formed an intent not to perform the promise after
the promise was made, following a conversation in which Defendant “decided”
with Saw.com that the domain should have been sold at a higher price.  (SAC ¶¶ 12, 14.)  
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract because Plaintiff
has represented, in his opposition papers, that he “agrees to dismiss” this
cause of action.  (Opp., p. 1, n. 1.) 
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action for breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing because Plaintiff has represented, in his opposition papers,
that he “agrees to dismiss” this cause of action.  (Opp., p. 1, n. 1.) 
The burden is on the plaintiff
“to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he
can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of
his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  Because Plaintiff has agreed to dismiss his causes
of action for breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, the court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to those causes of action
without leave to amend.  The court grants
Plaintiff leave to amend his first through third causes of action.  However, the court denies Plaintiff’s
request, made in his opposition papers, for leave to amend his complaint to add
additional causes of action for negligence and intentional interference with
contractual relations, without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing a regularly
noticed motion seeking this relief. 
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant moves the court for an
order striking from Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (1) the request for an
injunction, (2) the request for punitive damages, and (3) the request for
attorney’s fees.  
Because the court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to each cause of
action alleged in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint, the court denies Defendant’s
motion to strike as moot. 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s motion to
dismiss or stay the second amended complaint.
            The court sustains defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s demurrer to
plaintiff Shervin Lalezary’s first through third causes of action with leave to
amend.
            The court sustains defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s demurrer to
plaintiff Shervin Lalezary’s fourth and fifth causes of action without leave to
amend.
            The court denies as moot defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s motion to
strike.
            The
court grants plaintiff Shervin Lalezary 20 days leave to file a Third Amended
Complaint that cures the defects in the first, second, and third causes of
action discussed in this ruling.
            The court orders defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


