 Case Number:  23STLC01829    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Plaintiff
Barry Rosen’s Demurrer to Second Amended Answer
Plaintiff
Barry Rosen demurs to defendant City of Hawthorne’s entire second amended
answer.
Verification
Plaintiff
argues defendant “does not address whether it is intentionally omitting a
verification or citing to Code of Civil Procedure section 446 as a rationale
for omission.”  (Demurrer, p. 8.)  It is undisputed that no verification is
required.  If a “city … is defendant, its
… answer need not be verified.”  (CCP §
446(a).)  Plaintiff provides no authority
that a public entity defendant’s answer must explain why it is not verified.
Uncertainty
Plaintiff argues the second amended answer is
uncertain.  It is not.  “Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that [the opposing
party] cannot reasonably respond.”  (A.J.
Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677,
695, internal quotes and alterations omitted.) 
The second amended answer is comprehensible.  It admits or denies various specified allegations
of plaintiff’s complaint and asserts certain identified affirmative defenses.           
Affirmative Defenses
Plaintiff argues defendant “provide[s] no factual
support for its affirmative defenses.” 
(Demurrer, p. 6.)  An affirmative
defense requires “[a] statement of any new matter constituting a defense.”  (CCP § 431.30(b)(2).)  Rather than denying the plaintiff’s
allegations, affirmative defenses assert new allegations that would defeat the
plaintiff’s claims. (CCP § 431.30(b); FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 367, 383-385.)  Affirmative
defenses must not be pled as “terse legal conclusions.”  (Id. at p. 384.) 

Plaintiff’s demurrer does not acknowledge any of
the second amended answer’s allegations of new matter.  Each affirmative defense includes a
sufficient explanation or allegation of fact. 
For example, the ninth affirmative defense alleges detailed facts about the
“yellow light timing for the left turn signal.” 
(SAA, ¶ 9.)  Similarly, the tenth
affirmative defense alleges plaintiff failed to exhaust his administrative or
legal remedies because he “is trying to void a lawfully issued traffic citation”
and therefore “should have contested the ticket at trial and sought appellate
remedies therefrom if necessary.”  (¶
10.)  
Denials
Finally, plaintiff argues the second amended answer
does not “make a sufficient positive denial of the allegations which must be
according to the information and belief per Code of Civil Procedure section
431.30(d)” (Demurrer, p. 6) and “fails to make denials of the allegations
positively according to the information and belief of the defendant” (id., p. 7).  Code of Civil Procedure
section 431.30(d) provides, “[T]he denial of the allegations shall be made
positively or according to the information and belief of the
defendant.”  It thus permits two
alternative methods for denying allegations: “positively” or based on
“information and belief.”  Denying
allegations based on “information and belief” is not required.  To the contrary, that is a weaker method of denial
and is prohibited in some circumstances. 
(See, e.g., Taylor v. Newton (1953) 117 Cal.App.2d 752, 760 [“a
matter of which defendant has personal knowledge, or a matter which is
presumptively within his knowledge, cannot be denied on information or belief,
but must be answered positively or such denial may be disregarded as an evasion”].)
Section 431.30(f) further details the manner of
denying allegations: “The denials of the allegations controverted may be stated
by reference to specific paragraphs or parts of the complaint; or by express
admission of certain allegations of the complaint with a general denial of all
of the allegations not so admitted; or by denial of certain allegations upon
information and belief, or for lack of sufficient information or belief, with a
general denial of all allegations not so denied or expressly admitted.”  
The second amended answer denies the allegations in
the manner permitted.  It positively
denies some allegations by reference to specific paragraphs or parts of the
complaint (e.g., SAA, ¶¶ A, G, H, I), admits other specific parts of the
complaint (e.g., ¶¶ A, B, D, E), and denies some allegations for lack of
sufficient information or belief (¶¶ D, O). 
       
Disposition
Plaintiff
Barry Rosen’s demurrer to defendant City of Hawthorne’s second amended answer
is overruled.
 