  Case Number:  24STCP03264    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  85 
John Doe v. Monique S. Allard and University of
Southern California, 24STCP03264  


Tentative decision on petition
for mandamus:  denied



 
 
Petitioner John Doe (“Doe”)
seeks mandamus to set aside an Emergency Removal Order issued by Respondent University
of Southern California (“USC”), which functions as an indefinite suspension
from the law school campus and related off-campus activities. 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply,[1] and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
1. The FAP
Petitioner Doe filed the Petition against Respondents
Monique S. Allard, Ed.D., (“Allard”) and USC on October 11, 2024.  He filed the First Amended Petition (“FAP”)
on October 24, 2024, which is the operative pleading, alleging causes of action
for traditional and administrative mandamus. The FAP alleges in pertinent part
as follows. 
            Doe
is a 1L law student at USC Gould School of Law on an academic scholarship that
covers half-tuition, with the balance paid by student loans.  Jane Roe (“Roe”) is a 1L classmate and has
four classes with Doe.  Doe and Roe sat
next to each other in class, about 12 hours per week, and they formed a study
group with another classmate.  Doe has
been in a committed relationship with his girlfriend for over a year and
considered Roe and their study partner as platonic female friends.  
            On
August 28, 2024, Doe, Roe, and the study partner watched the movie “Legally
Blonde” together.  On the night of August
28-29, 2024, the three study partners attended several social functions with
other classmates, referred to as bar review. 
At the last location on the roof of Tuscany apartment, Roe became
noticeably intoxicated and said that she was going to be sick.  Doe walked Roe downstairs and a short
distance to her apartment, where he met at least two of her roommates.  Doe and Roe arrived at her apartment shortly
after 10:00 pm.  In the apartment, Roe,
who was intoxicated, leaned in to kiss Doe, but Doe pulled away.  Roe vomited and Doe sat with her for over an
hour as she recovered from her intoxication. 

            While
recovering in the bathroom, Roe asked Doe to retrieve her phone from their
study partner.  Roe told Doe where to
find her apartment key in her room so he could re-enter the apartment without
disturbing her roommates or requiring Roe to answer the door.  Doe came back to the apartment and gave Roe
her phone, left again to drive to the study partner’s home, and then returned
to Jane Roe’s apartment where she was still in the bathroom.  
            After
Roe sobered up, she and Doe went to her bedroom.  Doe told her that he was going to leave, but
he needed to find his phone.  Roe asked Doe
to lie down next to her on the bed, and he sat on the bed next to her.  Roe then took his hands and pulled them
towards her vaginal area.  Doe had no
romantic interest in Roe and told her that he just wanted to go home.   As Doe was going towards the door to leave, Roe
grabbed him to come back into her bedroom. 
She also groped Doe and attempted to take his clothes off, pulled his
pants down and took a sleeve of his shirt off. 
Roe attempted to physically restrain Doe from finding his phone, but she
eventually agreed to call his phone from her phone so they could locate it.  Roe continued to forcefully pull on Doe and
attempt to kiss him.
            On
September 14, 2024, Roe texted Doe about what happened between them on August
29, 2024.  Doe called her and explained
how she acted inappropriately that evening but that he had moved past it.  
            On
September 15, 2024, Doe reported Roe’s August 29-30th conduct to USC.  On September 16, 2024, Doe met with USC Dean
Nickey Woods to follow-up on his report. 

            On
information and belief, Roe also made a report to USC against Doe and contacted
law enforcement on September 16, 2024.  Roe
purports to have recovered memories about two weeks after the alleged
incident.  
            On
September 16, 2024, Roe called Doe twice to discuss what happened in her
apartment on August 29-30th.  Unbeknownst
to Doe, the phone calls were pretext calls directed by law enforcement.  During the first call, Doe denied that the
two had sex and described the conduct that had occurred, that Roe had been the
aggressor, that they never had sex, and that Roe had pushed his hand into her
vagina.  During the second call, Roe
asked Doe to go with her to get a pregnancy test.  Doe said no, but he would get one to drop one
off to her.  When Doe arrived to drop off
the pregnancy kit to Roe’s apartment, he was arrested.  No criminal charges were filed, and the
matter is still under investigation.  
            On
September 18, 2024, Roe obtained a civil harassment temporary restraining order
(“TRO”).  The TRO hearing has been
continued to December 19, 2024.  The TRO
allows Doe to attend law school, if permitted by USC and so long as Doe
complies with the TRO and stays ten yards away from Roe on campus.
            Also
on September 18, 2024, Doe received a Notice of Emergency Removal from USC
EEO-TIX Director Linda Hoos.  The
Emergency Removal Order was based on Roe’s allegations and the issuance of the
TRO.  
            Doe
timely appealed the Emergency Removal Order, denied the allegations made by Roe,
and submitted evidence in support of his appeal.  On September 30, 2024, Respondent Allard
denied Doe’s appeal of the Emergency Removal Order.  
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
On October 11, 2024, Doe filed the Petition. 
On October 15, 2024, Doe filed the FAP. 
On October 16, 2024, the court denied Doe’s ex parte
application for a stay of the Emergency Removal Order and set an expedited
briefing schedule for trial.
On December 27, 2024, Respondents filed an Answer. 
 
B. Standard of Review
A party may seek to set aside an agency decision by
petitioning for either a writ of administrative mandamus (CCP §1094.5) or of
traditional mandamus. CCP §1085.  A
petition for traditional mandamus is appropriate in all actions “to compel the
performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from
an office, trust, or station....”  CCP
§1085.  Traditional mandamus permits
judicial review of ministerial duties as well as quasi-legislative and
legislative acts.  County of Del Norte
v. City of Crescent City, (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 965, 972.
A traditional writ of mandate is the method of compelling
the performance of a legal, ministerial duty required by statute.  See Rodriguez v. Solis, (1991)
1 Cal.App.4th 495, 501-02.  Generally,
mandamus will lie when (1) there is no plain, speedy, and adequate alternative
remedy, (2) the respondent has a duty to perform, and (3) the petitioner has a
clear and beneficial right to performance.” 
Pomona Police Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84 (internal citations omitted).  Whether a statute imposes a ministerial duty
for which mandamus is available, or a mere obligation to perform a
discretionary function, is a question of statutory interpretation.  AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles
County Dept. of Public Health, (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701.
In the absence of a ministerial duty, traditional mandamus
relief is unavailable unless the petitioner can demonstrate an abuse of that
discretion.  An agency decision is an
abuse of discretion only if it is “arbitrary, capricious, entirely lacking in
evidentiary support, unlawful, or procedurally unfair.”  Kahn v. Los Angeles City Employees’
Retirement System, (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 98, 106.  In applying this deferential test, a court
“must ensure that an agency has adequately considered all relevant factors, and
has demonstrated a rational connection between those factors, the choice made,
and the purposes of the enabling statute.” 
Western States Petroleum Assn v. Superior Court, (1995) 9 Cal.4th
559, 577.  Mandamus will not lie to
compel the exercise of a public agency’s discretion in a particular
manner.  American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California, (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 247, 261.  It is available to compel an agency to
exercise discretion where it has not done so (Los Angeles County Employees
Assn. v. County of Los Angeles, (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 1, 8), and to correct
an abuse of discretion actually exercised. 
Manjares v. Newton, (1966) 64 Cal.2d 365, 370-71.  In making this determination, the court may
not substitute its judgment for that of the agency, whose decision must be
upheld if reasonable minds may disagree as to its wisdom.  Id. at 371.  A writ will lie where the agency’s discretion
can be exercised only in one way.  Hurtado
v. Superior Court, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 579.
USC
notes that Doe’s counsel represented at the October 22, 2024 trial setting
conference that the Petition lies in traditional mandamus under CCP section
1085 whereas USC’s counsel asserted that Doe could not seek relief for
traditional mandamus as the Emergency Removal decision was not a ministerial
act.  See RJN Ex. C.  In his opening brief, Doe explains that USC’s
Emergency Removal decision was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.   USC argues that Doe fails to establish that
the Emergency Removal decision is the type of decision that can be addressed
through traditional mandamus because Doe cannot show that (1) USC has a clear,
present and ministerial duty and (2) Doe has a clear, present and beneficial right to the performance of
that duty.  Opp. at 11-12.
USC
additionally argues that, while Doe does not rely on administrative mandamus in
his opening brief, the FAP alleges that the Emergency Removal decision is a
“final administrative decision” subject to challenge by way of administrative
mandate.”  FAP ¶50.  His opening brief seemingly reserves his
right to have his writ proceed as a section 1094.5 claim.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14, n. 3.  Yet, Doe fails to demonstrate that the
Emergency Removal is a final administrative decision and that he therefore
exhausted his administrative remedies, thus rendering his alternative CCP section
1094.5 claim deficient.  To the contrary,
and as clearly stated by Allard, the Emergency Review decision is merely one
stage in USC’s resolution process.  AR
234.  Opp. at 15-17.
      USC
misunderstands Doe’s position.  Although
his opening brief refers to both traditional mandamus and administrative
mandamus (Pet. Op. Br. at 14-16), Doe relies on the discretionary abuse of
discretion prong of traditional mandate, which requires a showing that Allard’s
decision is “arbitrary, capricious, entirely lacking in evidentiary support,
unlawful, or procedurally unfair.”  Kahn
v. Los Angeles City Employees’ Retirement System, supra, 187
Cal.App.4th at 106. Pet. Op. Br. at 14, n. 3; Reply at 6-7.
Doe is correct to rely on this deferential standard.  As USC argues, there is no ministerial duty
at issue.  Moreover, Allard’s decision is
not reviewable in administrative mandamus. 
Even if Allard’s decision arguably can be deemed final on the subject of
Emergency Removal, CCP section 1094.5(a) does not apply unless there has been a
proceeding that required a hearing, the taking of evidence, and discretionary
administrative determination of facts.  Helene
Curtis, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Assessment Appeals Board, (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 29, 37.  Purely
documentary proceedings can satisfy the hearing requirement of CCP section
1094.5 so long as the organization is required by law to accept and consider
evidence from both sides.  Friends of
the Old Trees v. Department of Forestry & Fire Protection, (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 1383, 1391.  However, where
an organization makes a decision based upon one party’s unilateral submission
of information without considering evidence from opposing parties, no hearing
occurs within the meaning of CCP section 1094.5.  300 DeHaro Street Investors v. Department
of Housing and Community Development, (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1240,
1250.  USC’s appeal procedure for an
Emergency Removal Order requires evidence only from the student and therefore
does not qualify as a hearing for purposes of CCP section 1094.5.  
The deferential abuse of discretion standard for traditional
mandamus applies to this case.
 
D. Governing Law
Doe correctly summarizes the law concerning student
discipline at a private university.  See
Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13.
The doctrine of
judicial non-intervention into the academic affairs of schools does not apply
in instances of non-academic affairs, including the Emergency Removal
proceeding at USC.  See Banks
v. Dominican College, (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1545; Paulsen
v. Golden Gate University (1979) 25 Cal.3d 803.  
Neither the
property interest in educational benefits temporarily denied nor the liberty
interest in reputation is so insubstantial that student discipline may be
imposed by any procedure the school chooses, no matter how arbitrary.  Goss
v. Lopez, (1975) 419 U.S. 565, 576.  “The
student’s interest is to avoid unfair or mistaken exclusion from the
educational process, with all of its unfortunate consequences ....
Disciplinarians, although proceeding in utmost good faith, frequently act on
the reports and advice of others; and the controlling facts and the nature of
the conduct under challenge are often disputed. The risk of error is not at all
trivial, and it should be guarded against if that may be done without
prohibitive cost or interference with the educational process.”  Id.
at 579-80.  At a minimum, students facing
academic discipline such as suspension or expulsion must be given notice and
afforded a hearing.  Id. at 579.
While California
law does not require any specific form of disciplinary hearing, a university is
bound by its own policies and procedures. 
Berman v. Regents of University
of California, (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1271-72.  A fair process requires the university to
present the evidence to the accused individual so that he has a reasonable
opportunity to prepare a defense and to respond to the accusation.  Doe
v. University of Southern California, (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221, 245-46.  Moreover, limited, incomplete, and untimely
access to the evidence impedes the accused’s ability to respond to the evidence
and present relevant evidence in his defense.  Doe v.
Regents of University of California, (2019) 28 Cal.App.5th 44, 57-60.

UAC’s policy
regarding Emergency Removal is as follows: 
 
“Certain circumstances may warrant removing a student
Respondent from a University program or activity. The University may remove a
student Respondent on an emergency basis from University property or
employment, education, or research programs or activities. Before imposing an
emergency removal, the University will undertake an individualized analysis of
safety and risk for the campus community to determine whether the Respondent’s
presence in the program or activity poses an immediate threat to the physical
health or safety of any student or other individual arising from the
allegations of Prohibited Conduct, and justifies removal of the Respondent from
the University program or activity. In making this determination, the VP of
EEO-TIX may consult with campus partners who review interim actions or conduct
threat assessments. 
 
The VP of EEO-TIX will promptly provide the Respondent
with written notice of any removal and an opportunity to challenge the removal.
During any challenge, the Respondent will remain off campus and must comply
with the notice of removal. That notice shall include a statement that any
information the Respondent chooses to provide may subsequently be used in
implementing any aspect of this Policy, including the investigation and
adjudication of the allegations of Prohibited Conduct. The Respondent will have
72 hours from the date of the removal to submit a written challenge to the
safety and risk analysis to the VP of EEO-TIX.” 
AR 29.
 
Emergency Removal
requires an individualized analysis of safety and risk for the campus community
to determine whether the Petitioner’s presence in the University program or
activity poses an immediate threat to the physical health or safety of any
student or other individual arising from the allegations of Discrimination,
Harassment or Retaliation, and justifies removal of the Respondent from the
University program or activity.  AR 262. 

 
E. Statement of Facts[2]
            1. Background 
            Doe began his first year as a
USC law student in August of 2024.  AR 255.  Doe attends USC on an academic scholarship
that covers half-tuition, with the balance paid by student loans.  AR 121, 255. 
Doe has no history of discipline or violence.  See AR 128-32.
Doe first met fellow law
student Roe a week prior to their orientation at USC.  AR 121. 
Shortly thereafter, Doe and Roe became friends and exchanged text
messages on a regular basis.  Roe and Doe
were also in a study group with one of Roe’s roommates AR 255.  Doe has been in a committed relationship with
his girlfriend for over a year and considered Roe and their other study partner
as platonic female friends.  AR 255. 
            The evening of August 29, 2024, Roe
went to a friend’s house to consume alcohol prior to attending “Bar Review,” a
law school social event.  AR 103.  Doe was also at the house and had brought a
bottle of Hennessy with him, which he shared with Roe.  AR 256. 
Roe also drank Mike’s Hard Lemonade before heading to Bar Review.  AR 103. 
While at the Bar Review, Roe began to feel noticeably intoxicated and
experienced significant gaps in her memory at around 10:00 pm, which concerned
her friends who were present.  AR 103.  
Initially, Roe had
limited recollection of how she returned to her apartment from the party.  USC AR 108, 113.  Roe recalled that she left the event but did
not recall the walk back to her apartment with Doe.  USC AR 79. 
Roe said that her roommates told her that when she entered her
apartment, she went to the bathroom to vomit. 
USC AR 79-80.  The next morning,
August 30th, Roe noticed that she had two bruises on her inner thighs and was
experiencing vaginal discomfort but could not immediately recall why she was
bruised and in pain.  USC AR 79.
Roe later informed USC
that she had never experienced memory loss before and that she had previously
consumed more alcohol than she did on the night of the incident with no similar
effect having occurred.  USC AR 111.  Doe later admitted to Roe that he was sober
during the night of the incident.  USC AR
177. 
 
2. Roe’s Complaint

On September 13, 2024,
Roe began to remember more details from what happened on August 30th with Doe
between 1:00-4:00 a.m.  USC AR 80-81.  Roe discussed those recollections with her
friend who took notes, and then proceeded to discuss her concerns with
Associate Dean Nickey Woods (“Woods”) later that same day.  USC AR 80-81.  Among other things, Roe reported that Doe
sexually assaulted her while she was unconscious during the early morning of
August 30, 2024.  USC AR 80-81.  Roe stated that she drank at the bar and
“blacked out,” went in and out of consciousness, and woke up to find Doe in her
bed.  She noticed that her undergarments
had been removed and Doe was touching her, and recalled Doe having sex with
her—none of which occurred with her affirmative consent as she was unable to
provide consent.  USC AR 80-81.  
USC’s Title IX Office confirmed
receipt of Roe’s initial complaint on the same day.  USC AR 39.
 
3. The Recorded
Phone Calls
On September 15, 2024,
Roe recorded a phone call between Doe and herself to discuss the events that
had occurred.  USC AR 80.  
On September 16, 2024,
Roe reported the incident to the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) and met
with officers at her apartment, who gathered some items for testing.  USC AR 131. 
Roe later went to an LAPD station to set up a pretext call with Doe.  USC AR 131. 
She reported that LAPD detectives were present in the room and recorded Doe
admitting to digitally penetrating Roe’s vagina, although he denied raping her.  USC AR 131. 

LAPD then asked Roe to
call Doe again to gain information.  USC AR
132.  During that second call, LAPD
informed Roe that the detectives wished her to get Doe to come to her apartment
so that they could arrest him.  USC AR
132.  Roe called Doe and asked him to
take her to get a pregnancy test.  USC AR
132.  Doe agreed to meet Roe at her
apartment where he was arrested by LAPD in connection with her report of sexual
assault.  USC AR 96-97, 132.
 
4. Doe’s Report

On September 15, 2024, Doe
filed a report with USC against Roe which reported staff categorized as a type
of prohibited discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  USC AR 54-56. 
Doe contended that he and Roe were intoxicated on August 29, Roe was
“blackout drunk,” Roe physically restrained him from leaving her apartment
after he walked her there, meaning that she grabbed his arm.  USC AR 56. 
Doe’s report did not raise any concerns about his physical safety in
connection with Roe.  USC AR 54-56.  
On September 16, 2024, Doe
met with Assistant Dean Woods to follow-up on the report he had made the day
before.  AR 125, 258.  
 
5. Roe’s Formal
Complaint 
Roe met with USC
officials on September 17, 2024, and stated her concern that moving seats in
class was completely unacceptable and that she would not feel safe if Doe were on
campus.  USC AR 131, 144, 147.  Roe indicated that she has five roommates who
also were concerned about their safety. 
USC AR 144.   Doe knew her address
and Roe was worried that he would come to her apartment now that he had been
arrested.  USC AR 147.  
Roe submitted a formal
complaint against Doe on September 18, 2024. 
USC AR 195-97. In her complaint, Roe recounted the events leading to her
alleged sexual assault.  USC AR
195-97.  She contended that she was very
intoxicated and feeling sick and remembered walking home.  USC AR 196. 
She woke up in bed wearing her dress but without underwear and with Doe
lying next to her.  USC AR 196.  She then remembered waking up with her arms
around the toilet.  USC AR 196.  Later she woke up in bed, naked and on her
stomach, with Doe first penetrating her vagina with his finger and then with
his penis from behind.  USC AR 196.  Doe removed his penis and joked that he did
not want a baby to be born between students in their law school section.  USC AR 196-97.
 
6. The Temporary Restraining
Order 
Roe sought a temporary
restraining order (“TRO”) against Doe which the court granted on September 18,
2024.  AR 186-94.  The TRO specified that Doe must stay at least
100 yards away from Roe, reduced to ten yards on campus if USC permitted him to
do so.  USC AR 190.
 
7. The Emergency
Removal Order 
            USC initiated an individualized risk
assessment in which staff discussed the reported information and assessed
various risk factors to determine whether Doe should be removed from the law
school program pending the completion of investigation and possible hearing
under the Resolution Process.  USC AR 205-07.  
On September 18, 2024, USC
issued an Emergency Removal order against Doe. 
USC AR 205-07.  USC considered
risk factors that Doe had been arrested on September 16, 2024 and released on
bond, the law enforcement investigation against him was active, Doe reportedly made
statements to Roe on the phone related to the occurrence of sexual contact with
Roe on August 29, Roe was visibly intoxicated on August 29, Roe alleged that
she had been sexually assaulted, and Roe alleged that she and her classmates
had been severely impacted by Doe’s conduct and were concerned about safety if he
were present on campus.  USC AR 206.  USC determined that Doe’s presence at the law
school posed an immediate threat to the physical health or safety of a student
or other individual justifying Emergency Removal based on identified risk
factors.  USC AR 206.  
The Notice of Emergency
Removal outlined Doe’s right to appeal the order and well as his right to
explore the possibility of participating in coursework remotely, virtually, or
asynchronously.  USC AR 206.  
 
8. Doe’s Formal
Complaint
Doe
filed his formal complaint against Roe on October 16, 2024.  USC AR 236-38.  He alleged that he had not been willing to
leave Roe unattended at the Bar Review or with her roommates because he had
lost a friend to alcohol poisoning and felt a duty to make sure that Roe was
okay, and Roe asked him to stay.  AR 122,
153.  He walked Roe downstairs and a
short distance to her apartment, where he met at least two of her
roommates.  AR 122, 153.  Doe and Roe arrived at her apartment shortly
after 10:00 p.m.  AR 121-22.  
In the apartment, Roe,
who was intoxicated, leaned in to kiss Doe but Doe pulled away.  AR 256. 
Roe vomited in the toilet and Doe sat with her for over an hour as she
recovered from her intoxication.  AR 153,
256.  While recovering in the bathroom,
Roe asked Doe to retrieve her phone from their study partner, with whom Roe had
left it.  AR 153, 256.  When Doe left to retrieve Roe’s phone, Roe
told Doe where to find her apartment key in her room so he could take the key
and re-enter the apartment without disturbing her roommates or requiring Roe to
answer the door.  AR 256.  
Doe came back to the
apartment and gave Roe her phone, then left again to drive to their study
partner home, and then returned to Roe’s apartment where she was still in the
bathroom.  AR 256.  
After Roe sobered up and
said she felt better, Roe and Doe went to her bedroom and Doe told her that he
was going to leave, but that he needed to find his phone first.  AR 153, 256. 
Roe asked Doe to lie down next to her and he did.  AR 122. 
Roe took Doe’s hands and pulled them towards her vagina. AR 256.  Doe had no romantic interest in Roe and told
her that he just wanted to go home.  AR
122, 153, 256.  
As Doe was leaving, Roe
attempted to take his clothes off, pulling his pants down and pulling off a
sleeve of his shirt.  AR 153, 256.  Doe got his clothing back on and insisted that
she call his phone so he could find it. 
AR 257.  (Doe’s phone records show
the two calls that Roe made to Doe’s phone at 4:06 a.m.  AR 209.) 

Roe continued to
forcefully pull Doe and attempt to kiss him the entire way from her bedroom and
through her apartment until they reached the hallway.  AR 209. 
(Security video confirms the interaction between Roe and Doe as he was
leaving her apartment, with Roe trying to get Doe to stay.  AR181-200, 266.)  Doe left the apartment at 4:18 a.m.  AR 123, 257.  

That afternoon Roe and
Doe spoke on the phone for 14 minutes and Roe invited Doe to join her at a
carnival on the USC campus, but he declined. 
AR 123, 209.  A few hours later, Roe
texted Doe: “Are you upset?”  AR
209.  Doe eventually replied that he
wasn’t upset, and they texted for about 15 minutes and then spoke on the phone
for almost four hours.  AR 124, 209-210,
257.  
 
            9. Doe’s Challenge to the
Emergency Removal Order 
            On September 24, 2024, Doe, through
counsel, filed a challenge to the Emergency Removal.  USC AR 209-28.[3]
On September 30, 2024, Allard
issued a final decision on Doe’s challenge. 
USC AR 234-35.  Allard confirmed
the Emergency Removal decision, noting that her review was limited to
evaluating the individual safety and risk analysis rather than making findings
of facts and responsibility, and that Doe’s written challenge did not provide
any information that would alter the safety and risk analysis conducted by USC,
which formed the basis for the Emergency Removal Order.  USC AR 233-34.  
 
            10. The Amended Investigation

            On September 27, 2024, USC issued a
Notice of Investigation that included Roe’s allegations but not Doe’s
allegations.  AR 141-47.  On October 29, 2024, Respondents issued an
Amended Notice of Investigation that included Doe’s allegations against Roe.  AR 151-58. 
The Amended Notice of Investigation superseded and replaced the original
Notice of Investigation.  AR 151.  
 
            11. The DA’s Declination of
Prosecution
            O December 23, 2024, Doe’s criminal
defense counsel spoke with Jessica Goulden of the District Attorney’s Office
and was informed that the District Attorney’s Office had rejected prosecution
of Doe.  Shapiro Decl., ¶1.[4]
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Doe seeks traditional mandamus to set aside the
Emergency Removal Order as arbitrary and capricious, or entirely lacking in
evidentiary support.  See Kahn
v. Los Angeles City Employees’ Retirement System, supra, 187
Cal.App.4th at 106.  The court’s
deferential standard of review is dispositive.
Doe argues that Roe’s allegations that she started
remembering in the weeks after August 30th, even if not false, do
not support the Emergency Removal Order decision that he poses “an immediate
threat to the physical health or safety of any student or other individual
arising from [those] allegations of Prohibited Conduct.”  In the weeks following August 30, 2024, there
was an abundance of interactions, phone calls, and messages between Roe and Doe,
and yet a complete absence of anything that could remotely be considered as a
threat or threatening to physical health or safety of anyone.  Pet. Op. Br. at 17.       
When the Emergency
Removal Order was issued on September 18, 2024, USC knew that Doe had also
reported “Prohibited Conduct” by Roe but took Emergency Removal action only
against him.  AR 117. 
The Emergency Removal decision relies entirely on Roe’s uncorroborated
allegations, which were also the basis for issuance of the civil harassment TRO
and Doe’s arrest.  The only risk factors
identified as considered by USC were: (1) Doe’s arrest, subsequent detention,
release on bond, and active law enforcement investigation; (2)  Roe’s claim that he admitted to inserting his
fingers into her vagina during the 21 minute pretext call; (3) Roe’s
intoxication on August 30, 2024; and (4) the severity and impact of Roe’s
allegations on “reporting Party and other students.”  AR 103.  None of these factors have anything to do
with any risk of physical health and safety during law school classes on campus
and assume that Roe’s allegations are factually accurate.  The Emergency Removal Order is punitive, and
an improper sanction imposed before any determination whether Roe’s allegations
are true.  In the absence of any showing
that Doe’s presence on campus “poses an immediate threat to the physical health
or safety of any student or other individual arising from the allegations of
Prohibited Conduct”, the Emergency Removal decision is an abuse of
discretion.  USC’s belatedly
acknowledgment of Doe’s allegations, reported to the school before his arrest
and the TRO, shows the arbitrary nature of the Emergency Removal decision.  Pet. Op. Br. at 17.
USC’s
actions were not arbitrary, capricious, or without evidentiary support.[5]  The Administrative Record shows that USC
considered the known circumstances and risk factors, the most significant of
which were: (1) Roe’s visible intoxication, which Doe acknowledged; (2) Roe’s
allegation that Doe engaged in sexual assault by penetration and intentional
touching of Roe’s vagina with his finger and/or penis while she was
incapacitated and not able to consent; (3) Roe’s allegation that Doe admitted
in a LAPD-recorded pretext call that he digitally penetrated Roe’s vagina,
although he denied raping her.  USC AR
131; (4)
Doe’s September 16, 2024 arrest on felony charges by LAPD, his release on bond, and
LAPD’s active criminal investigation; and (5) Roe’s expression of concern for
her safety if Doe is present on campus, as well as her expression of her roommates’
concern.  USC AR 201-02.
Aside
from the parties’ mutual accusations, the Administrative Record shows that Doe
was formally arrested and had to post bail. 
Roe also obtained a TRO and repeatedly raised personal and community
safety concerns about Doe’s presence on campus. 
These are the facts causing the retaliation safety concerns of Roe and
her roommates.  While Doe can argue that
Roe triggered her own safety concerns by causing his arrest and obtaining a TRO,
USC still was entitled to rely on these facts in making a risk assessment.  By contrast, Doe’s written submissions to USC
never raised any personal physical safety concerns about Roe’s presence on
campus.  As USC argues (Opp. at 14), the
mere fact that Doe also made a formal claim against Roe does not mean the Emergency
Removal Order should be invalid.  Such a
conclusion would not be reflective of USC’s individualized review and
assessment concerning Doe.  
In
upholding the Emergency Removal Order, Allard noted that Doe denied any misconduct.  USC AR 234. 
She also noted that his challenge included potentially relevant video
evidence that had been preserved by a third-party and text messages exchanged
between the parties on August 30 and August 31, 2024, he submitted character
references, and his concern that Roe made a false report because she knew Doe intended
to submit a formal complaint against her. 
AR 234.[6]  Allard noted that her role was to make an
individual safety and risk analysis, not to decide the
underlying allegations, and that Doe’s challenge did not provide any
information that would alter the safety and risk analysis which formed the
basis for the Emergency Removal order.  AR
234.  This was not an abuse of
discretion.  
 
            E. Conclusion
The standard of review is
dispositive of the FAP, which is denied. 
Respondent USC’s counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed
judgment, serve it on Doe’s counsel for approval as to form, wait ten days
after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are objections, and
then submit the proposed judgment along with a declaration stating the
existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for February 20,
2025 at 9:30 a.m.


