 Case Number:  24STCV18018    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Melody Rogers,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV18018




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
State of California, et al.,    


 
 
 
Defendants
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 16, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Declare Vexatious Litigant
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles, joined by Defendants
County Supervisors Holly J. Mitchell and Hilda L. Solis, District Attorney
George Gascon and City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Plaintiff Melody Rogers
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION
TO DECLARE PLAINTIFF MELODY ROGERS A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF SHALL POST A BOND OF $70,000
WITHIN 20 DAYS.
 
MOVING PARTY TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff Melody
Rogers, in pro per, filed a complaint against Defendants State Of
California; State Bar Of California; California Commission On Judicial
Performance; County Of Los Angeles; City Of Los Angeles; Children’s Law Center
Of California; Children’s Law Center Of California Los Angeles 1 & 2; Los
Angeles Dependency Lawyers; Vince Davis; Rachel Ewing; Gavin Newsom; Jerry
Brown; Rob Bonta; Head Judge Akemi Arakaki; Judge Victor H. Greenberg;
Commissioner Stephen Marpet; Larry Fluharty; Elena Kouvabina; Judge Linda Sun;
George Gascon; Jackie Lacey; Michel H Eisner; Joseph S. Lee; Jackee Montano;
Dan Kim; Jamie Kim; Margaret Lee; Samanth P. Jessner; Angela Torres; Alyson
Bashor; Dennis Smeal; Lonisha Thompson; Frank Ostrov; Mel Hatamian: Tyrone
Sandoval; Angela Renay Swan; Bobby D. Cagle; Brandon T. Nichols; Phillip
Browning; Sonia Valiente. Melissa Aguilar; Genet Abera; Carvin Hall. Regina
Minor; Vivian Harris; Heidi Martinez; Alejandra Gandarilla; Myesha Webb;
Alexandria Ross-Moore; Ammirelle Swank; Leah T Wilson; George Cardone; Ellin
Davtyan; Donna S. Hershkowitz; Gloria Mendoza; Steve Mazer; Steve Moawad;
Christina Warthan. Enrique Zuniga. Bridget Fogarty Gramme; Jessica Young Smith;
Jay Men Vaghashia; Kelly Gerner; Jackie Contreras; Karen Bass; Eric Garcetti;
Mark Ridleythomas; Holly J. Mitchell; Hilda S. Solis; Enrique Zuniga; Kernell
Brown et al. 
 
The
complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of the Bane Act – Human
Trafficking, (2) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (3) Conspiracy to
Participate in Racketeering, (4) Violation of Civil Rights under 42 U.S.C. §
1983, (5) Violation of 42 U.S.C. 1985 Conspiracy Against Rights, (6) Neglect to
Prevent the Deprivation of Rights, (7) Abuse of Process, (8) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (9) Fraud upon the Court, (10) Gross Negligence, (11) Deceitful
Business Practices, and (12) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant County
of Los Angeles moved to declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant. The motion is
joined by Defendants
County Supervisors Holly J. Mitchell and Hilda L. Solis, District Attorney
George Gascon and City of Los Angeles. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 391 subdivision (b) defines a vexatious litigant as a person
engaged with the court and conducting any of the following activities:  
 
“(1) In the immediately preceding
seven-year period has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in propria persona
at least five litigations other than in a small claims court that have been (i)
finally determined adversely to the person or (ii) unjustifiably permitted to
remain pending at least two years without having been brought to trial or
hearing. 
(2) After a litigation has been finally
determined against the person, repeatedly relitigates or attempts to
relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the validity of the determination
against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally
determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim, controversy, or any of the
issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by the final determination
against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally
determined. 
(3) In any litigation while acting in
propria persona, repeatedly filed unmeritorious motions, pleads, or other
papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. 
(4) Has previously been declared to be a
vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of record in any action or
proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar facts, transaction, or
occurrence.”
 
“The trial
court exercises its discretion in determining whether a person is a vexatious
litigant. Review of the order is accordingly limited and the Court of Appeal
will uphold the ruling if it is supported by substantial evidence. 
Likewise, a court's decision that a vexatious litigant does not have a
reasonable chance of success in the action is based on an evaluative judgment
in which the court weighs the evidence. If there is any substantial evidence to
support the court's determination, it will be upheld.”  (Singh v.
Lipworth (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 813, 828.)
 
“Evidence that
a litigant is a frequent plaintiff or defendant alone is insufficient to
support a vexatious litigant designation.”  (Morton v. Wagner
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 963, 969.)  Where a pro per plaintiff repeatedly
files motions revisiting issues that have already been determined, procedurally
defective motions, constantly revisits issues and files voluminous supplemental
and amended briefing, the Court may deem him a vexatious litigant under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 391 subdivision (b)(3).  (See Singh, supra,
227 Cal.App.4th at 828.; see also Golin v. Allenby (2010) 190
Cal.App.4th 616, 638-639.)
 
County of Los
Angeles seeks the following orders: (1) declaring that Plaintiff Melody Rodgers, aka Melody J.
Rodgers is a vexatious litigant, with the attendant notices to the Judicial
Council of the State of California, (2) requiring Plaintiff to furnish security
for expenses and costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 391, et.
seq., in the amount of $70,000, and, in the alternative, dismissing the case.
 
County argues that in the
past seven years Plaintiff has commenced and prosecuted at least five civil
cases that were adjudicated against her. Those cases are:
1.       Rodgers
v. B & H Photo, United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York, Case No. 1:24-cv-06910-LTS.  
2.       Rodgers
v. Duplin County Municipality, United States District Court for the Eastern
District of North Carolina, Case No. 7:23-cv-01172-D-RJ.
3.       Rodgers
v. United States, United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, Case
No. 23-1214 23- 1162 et. seq., (From United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina at Wilmington, Case No. 22-cv-00178-FL).
4.       Rodgers
v. Los Angeles Superior Court, et. al. United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina, Case No. 7:21-cv-00223- M.
5.       Rodgers
v. United States of America, United States Court of Federal Claims, Case No.
1:21-cv-00793-EMR.
6.       Rodgers
v. Stephen Marpet, LASC Case No. 20STCP00644 (redesignated unlimited civil).
7.       Rodgers
v. Brodie, LASC Case No. BC685707.
An action that a plaintiff filed
and dismissed is considered litigation finally determined adversely against the
plaintiff, even if the dismissal is voluntary and without prejudice. (Tokerud
v. Capitol Bank Sacramento (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 775, 779-780 [“An action
which is ultimately dismissed by the plaintiff, with or without prejudice, is
nevertheless a burden on the target of the litigation and the judicial system,
albeit less of a burden than if the matter had proceeded to trial. A party who
repeatedly files baseless actions only to dismiss them is no less vexatious
than the party who follows the actions through to completion. The difference is
one of degree, not kind.”].) 
On this basis alone,
Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant.
The Court also finds that Plaintiff has no reasonable
probability of prevailing against County in the instant action because the
complaint likely is time-barred. The complaint
alleges a series of events beginning on February 29, 2016, when the Los Angeles
County Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) and police officers
reportedly entered Plaintiff’s home without a warrant (Compl., ¶ 146.) Personal
injury actions are generally subject to a two-year statute of limitations.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1. 
In addition, the common law torts of negligence, abuse of process, and
intentional torts cannot be alleged against County, given that “all government
tort liability is now dependent on statute” (Susman v. City of Los Angeles
(1969) 269 Cal.App.2d 803, 808) and “every fact essential to the existence of
statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence
of a statutory duty.” (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177
Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) For Plaintiff’s civil rights claims, the complaint is
based on vicarious liability even though a municipal defendant is not subject
to liability based on a theory of vicarious liability. (See Collins v. City
of Harker Heights, Tex. (1992) 503 U.S. 115, 122 [“The city is not vicariously
liable under § 1983 for the constitutional torts of its agents: It is only
liable when it can be fairly said that the city itself is the wrongdoer.”].) 
As to the request for a bond, “[t]he motion for an
order requiring plaintiff to furnish security shall be based upon the ground,
and supported by a showing, that the plaintiffs is a vexatious litigation and
that there is not a reasonable probability that he or she will prevail in the
litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 391.1(a), 391.3(a).) 
As discussed, there is no reasonable probability that
Plaintiff will prevail against County. The Court orders the posting of a
security.  
The statute requires
the plaintiff to furnish security “for the benefit of the moving defendant,
security in such amount and within such time as the court shall fix.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 391.3(a).) “The vexatious litigant statutes were enacted to
require a person found a vexatious litigant to put up security for the
reasonable expenses of a defendant who becomes the target of one of these
obsessive and persistent litigants whose conduct can cause serious financial
results to the unfortunate object of his attack. The purpose of the statutory
scheme is to deal with the problem created by the persistent and obsessive
litigant who has constantly pending a number of groundless actions, often
against the judges and other court officers who decide or were concerned in the
decision of previous actions adversely to him.” (Holcomb
v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1504.) Given the complaint is against Defendant, damages come from a
potentially successful claim and attorney fees defending the action. (Muller
v. Tanner (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d 445, 452 [“the amount of
the security is defined as the moving party’s ‘reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred in, or in connection
with’ the litigation”].)  
 
County asks the Court to
set a $70,000.00 bond as a security. County argues that if the instant action
progresses to trial, the total fees expending by County would exceed $70,000.00
and would be the minimum amount that will protect County, up to the beginning
of trial. The Court agrees, and sets a security in the amount of $70,000.00
that must be posted by Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s failure to
comply with the security order could lead to dismissal of the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 391.4.)  
 
“In addition
to any other relief provided in this title, the court may, on its own motion or
the motion of any party, enter a prefiling order which prohibits a vexatious
litigant from filing any new litigation in the courts of this state in propria
persona without first obtaining leave of the presiding justice or presiding
judge of the court where the litigation is proposed to be filed. Disobedience
of the order by a vexatious litigant may be punished as a contempt of court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7(a).) The presiding judge “shall permit the filing of
that litigation only if it appears that the litigation has merit and has not
been filed for purposes of harassment or delay” and “may condition the filing
of the litigation upon the furnishing of security for the benefit of the
defendants. (Id. § 391.7(b).) 
 
The Court
enters a prefiling order prohibiting Plaintiff from filing any new litigation
in the courts of this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of
court.  
 
County’s motion
to declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 