 Case Number:  24STCV21998    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  73 12/18/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BORSCA v. O’GARA COACH COMPANY, LLC (24STCV1998)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Michael Geller (Law Office of Michael Geller Inc.)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Elizabeth Kolar
(Kolar & Associates)
 
demurrer to complaint (filed on 10/02/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
August 28, 2024, Plaintiff Vendel Borsca filed this action against Defendant O’Gara
Coach. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 
1.      Unfair Business Practices
2.      Violation of Consumers Legal Remedies Act
3.      Negligent Misrepresentation
4.      Intentional Misrepresentation
 
The
Complaint alleges the following. On
or around September 2, 2023, Plaintiff went to Defendant, O’Gara Coach Company,
LLC, to purchase a new 2023 Rolls-Royce Cullinan Black Badge VIN
SLATV8C01PU220220. The purchase price of the vehicle was $515,000 and Plaintiff
traded in several vehicles as part of the down payment. Plaintiff alleges that
the salesperson and other members of the sales staff told Plaintiff that if he
formed a Montana LLC and had the vehicle "sold" to the LLC instead of
him personally and have it registered in Montana instead of California, then
Plaintiff could avoid sales tax and license fees. Thus, Plaintiff alleges that he
formed “Vendy’s Memories LLC”, a Montana LLC. The vehicle was sold to the
Montana LLC and the vehicle registered in Montana. Plaintiff alleges that he
was subsequently contacted by agents for the DMV and was told that he must have
his car registered in California and that he needed to process the transfer,
pay the full amount of use-tax on the purchase and all registration fees and
penalties.
 
On October 2, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer to the
Complaint.
·       Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint due to a misjoinder of parties
o  
The subject vehicle was purchased by third
party Vendy’s Memories, LLC (“VML”).
o  
Borsca’s
Complaint is fatally defective because he failed to join the primary Plaintiff
in this matter, VML, who is the only purchaser on the Retail Installment Sales
Contract (“RISC”).
·       Plaintiff’s causes of action also fail
because: (1) Borsca has obliquely admitted that VML is the purchaser not him
(Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 10, 11; supported by Abramson Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 1); (2) Borsca
/ VML actually relied on the advice of Montana counsel, not O’GARA (Complaint,
¶ 10); (3) there was no coercion here and Borsca / VML could have walked away
or changed the terms of the deal at any time; (4) neither Borsca or VML are a
“Consumer” under the CLRA (Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 10, 11); and (5) Borsca and VML
cannot use the CLRA given that VML purchased the Vehicle for the business
purpose of being a tax shelter (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-9, 20). As such the laws and
contract relevant here entirely exclude this situation.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s demurrer arguing: 
·       Adding VML as
a party would add nothing to the Complaint. The
RISC is not at issue. An LLC that is simply the alter-ego of the buyer is not
needed and the car is no longer registered in the name of the LLC so it has
nothing to do with the transaction other than that is how it started.
·       Plaintiff has
pled that he purchased the car for personal, family or household
purposes. He still is a consumer regardless of the alter-ego LLC formed at the
behest of O'Gara.
·       Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
illegally convinced him to form an LLC in Montana.
 
Defendant
filed a reply:
·       Defendant maintains that the
Complaint is fatally defective because it fails to join VML, the actual
purchaser of the vehicle at issue, as a plaintiff.
·       The RISC for the Vehicle is the very
contract Plaintiff is trying to void in this lawsuit. Yet he failed to include
it.
·       The Complaint fails to allege
Plaintiff was harmed or has damages, as Plaintiff was not involved with the
purchase.
·      
Defendant
opposes Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice. Borsca has done nothing to
authenticate this document as an official act or final regulation. Instead this
is merely a Department’s form which is not required to go under the scrutiny
and finalization process of a Legislative Act or a full Regulation. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of a California Department of Tax and Fee Administration form
under Evid. Code § 452(b).
 
The court may
take judicial notice of regulations and legislative enactments issued by or
under the authority of the United States or any public entity in the United
States. (Evid. Code § 452(b).)
 
Here, the
form does not appear to be a regulation or legislative enactment under Evid.
Code § 452(b). Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.   
 
C.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating the
parties telephonically met and conferred regarding the issues in the demurrer. (Abramson Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
obligations to meet and confer and the Court proceeds on the merits. 
 
D.     Misjoinder
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire Complaint on the
grounds of misjoinder of parties.
 
CCP
section 430.10(d) provides that a demurrer may be brought on grounds of
misjoinder of parties. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(d).) But “a
defendant may not make allegations of defect or misjoinder of parties in the
demurrer if the pleadings do not disclose the existence of the matter relied
on; such objection must be taken by plea or answer.” (Harboring Villas
Homeowners Association v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 426, 429.)
 
Defendant argues the Complaint is fatally defective because it fails to join Vendy’s
Memories, LLC (“VML”), the actual purchaser of the vehicle at issue, and thus,
a necessary party, as a plaintiff in this matter. In support, Defendant attached a copy of
the Retail Installment Sales Contract
(“RISC”). (Demurrer, Ex. 1.) The RISC states that the buyer is VML. (Demurrer,
Ex. 1, p. 1.) Thus, Defendant argues that VML is the actual real party in
interest, and not Plaintiff Borsca. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff Borsca has no standing and was not involved in the
purchase. “Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in
interest, except as otherwise provided by statute.” (CCP § 367; Cloud v.
Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004.) 
 
In Plaintiff’s opposition, he does not dispute that the vehicle
was sold to VML. (Oppos., p. 2.) However, Plaintiff
argues that VML is an LLC that is simply the alter-ego of the Plaintiff. The
Complaint alleges “[Plaintiff] formed [VML] through the O'Gara attorney in
Montana, solely for the purpose of registering the Rolls-Royce there.” (Compl.,
¶ 9.) The Complaint
also alleges Plaintiff relied on Defendant’s representations that he could
avoid sales tax and license fees on the purchase of the vehicle if it was sold
to a Montana LLC that he formed, and not sold to Plaintiff personally. (Compl.,
¶ 7.) The Complaint
further alleges that after Plaintiff was contacted by DMV agents, he had to re-register
“the car properly and had to pay the State of California $54,652 due to the
intentional and negligent acts of O'Gara.” (Compl.,
¶ 20.) Thus, the
Complaint alleges Plaintiff’s involvement in the purchase and his alleged
damages. The Court finds these allegations are sufficient to show Plaintiff’s
standing as a real party in interest. Defendant does not cite to any authority
showing that Plaintiff is required to also join the LLC as a plaintiff.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the
demurrer to the entire Complaint should be sustained on these grounds. Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the entire Complaint due to misjoinder is overruled on
this basis.
 
E.      Second Cause
of Action: Consumer Legal Remedies Act
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails because the Consumers
Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”) is limited to consumers.
 
Under Civil Code § 1750, to establish a claim under the CLRA
the Plaintiff must allege that (1) the Plaintiff acquired, or sought to
acquire, by purchase or lease, a vehicle for personal, family, or household
purposes; (2) that the Defendant engaged in one or more prohibited practices
under Civ. Code §1770(a), or represented that the product or service had
characteristics or uses, or benefits that it did not have; (3) That the
Plaintiff was harmed; and (4) That the Plaintiff's harm resulted from the
Defendant's conduct. (See Consumers Legal Remedies Act; Rubenstein v. The
Gap, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.4th 870, 880-881).  
 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff is a consumer because despite
following Defendant’s illegal advice, the
vehicle was in fact purchased for personal, family or household purposes. (Compl.,
¶ 22.) While Defendant
argues that VML was the purchaser of the vehicle, and that the RISC lists the
primary use of the vehicle as business or commercial, Plaintiff alleges that he
had relied on Defendant’s advice regarding the purchase and registration of the
vehicle. The Court finds that at this stage, Plaintiff’s allegations are
sufficient. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the
truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer,
all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
F.       Third and
Fourth Causes of Action: Negligent and Intentional Misrepresentation
 
Defendant demurs to the third and fourth causes
of action.
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include
“[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and
resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co.,
Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California
courts have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e.,
a duty to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances.  The first situation arises where providing
false information poses a risk of and results in physical harm to person or
property.  The second situation arises
where information is conveyed in a commercial setting for a business
purpose.”  (Friedman v. Merck &
Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)

 
“The elements of a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge
of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff Borsca
was not involved in the transaction and does not have standing. However, as
discussed above, the Court does not find Defendant’s argument persuasive.
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff has not alleged reliance. Defendant argues
that he was guided by the knowledge and advice of a Montana attorney in
establishing VML, and not on the advice of Defendant. 
 
The Complaint alleges “Using the
attorney in Montana facilitated by O'Gara, Borsca formed “Vendy's Memories
LLC" though the O'Gara attorney in Montana, solely for the purpose of
registering the Rolls-Royce there.” (Compl., ¶ 10.)
 
Thus, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff
used the attorney in Montana that was facilitated by Defendant O’Gara to form
VML. However, the Complaint does not allege that Plaintiff relied on the
attorney’s representations. Instead, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff
relied on Defendant’s representations. The Complaint alleges the following:
 
“Defendants
misrepresented the fact that Plaintiff could legally avoid paying California
sales tax and California registration by selling the car to a Montana entity.
Given the licensing requirements as a new-car dealer, along with the numerous
sales tax training guides and training, Defendants had no reasonable ground for
believing that by simply registering a car in Montana, a California resident
and driver, can avoid California registration fees and California Sales Tax.
Defendants had a full system in place, including a Montana lawyer on
speed-dial, that was intended to induce buyers to believe this
misrepresentation and Plaintiff reasonably relied on the statements and
representations of the staff of the Rolls Royce dealer that sells many very
high-end, expensive cars. Plaintiff relied on these statements and but-for the
reduction in the sales price, he would not have purchased the car.” (Compl., ¶¶
36-39.)
 
The Court finds these allegations
sufficient at this stage. Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
G.     First Cause
of Action: Unfair Business Practices
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action
arguing that it is derivative of the other causes of action and thus, should
also fail. 
 
To set
forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200
(“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair
or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)  A cause of action for unfair competition “is
not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.”  (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration
Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)
 
As discussed above, Defendant argues that Plaintiff Borsca was not involved in the transaction
and does not have standing. However, the Court did not find Defendant’s
argument persuasive. Further,
this cause of action is not derivative of the other causes of action because
Plaintiff also alleges Defendant violated the
Automobile Sales Finance Act by failing to properly disclose the full terms of
the deal. (Compl., ¶ 19.)
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.