 Case Number:  23STCV30609    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  73 12/19/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KUNTSEVICH v. KOPENTECH, LLC, et al. (23STCV30609)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Rahul Sethi
(Sethi Orchid Miner LLP); Angel Pluas (Milon Pluas LLP)
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party:  Lisa Peterson (Fisher &
Phillips LLP)
 
demurrer and motion to strike portions of
the FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed 8/13/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s causes of action against Defendant Kopentech Capital Markets, LLC is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s first and second causes of action is
OVERRULED. Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s third and
fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendants’ motion
to strike is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff Ilya Kuntsevich (“Plaintiff” or
“Kuntsevich”) filed this action against Defendants Kopentech, LLC; Kopentech
Capital Markets, LLC; and Olga Chernova. 
 
On
July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint, alleging
the following causes of action:
1.     
Violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5(b)
2.     
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
3.     
Intentional Misrepresentation
4.     
Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The
FAC alleges the following. Defendants
KopenTech, LLC and KopenTech Capital Markets, LLC (collectively referred to as
“Kopentech”) are owned and controlled by Defendant Olga Chernova and/or Kenneth
King. KopenTech is a business that provides an electronic trading platform.
Chernova is, and at all relevant times mentioned herein, was Defendant
KopenTech LLC'S Chief Executive Officer. On or about December 2022, Chernova
interviewed Kuntsevich for the Chief Financial Officer/Chief of Staff role at
KopenTech. At the interview, Kuntsevich orally proposed a compensation package of
a $200,000 annual salary base plus a 2 percent equity stake. Based on the
representation and prior discussions during the interview, Kuntsevich accepted
the position at KopenTech. Kuntsevich orally and in writing communicated to
Chernova various issues: (a) Misrepresentation in KopenTech Partners' K-1
Information for 2019-2021 tax returns, potentially constituting tax fraud; (b)
Non-compliance of KopenTech's financial statements with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP), including critical discrepancies affecting Gross
Margin, unaccounted intangible assets, opaque capitalization approach for
Software and missing intrinsic value expense of employee stock options; (c)
Unrealistic valuation of KopenTech, obstructing attempts at rectification; (d)
Incorrect processing of the Small Business Administration's PPP application,
resulting in a lower forgiveness amount, inaccurately reflected in the 2022
financial statements; (e) State tax registration errors, incurring penalties
that KopenTech needed to but wasn't addressing; and (f) Unauthorized legal
expenses accrued by Chernova. Despite making some progress in addressing the
issues, the overall situation did not improve sufficiently. In early November
2023, Kuntsevich requested written permission via email to speak with the Board
about these matters. Chernova did not respond to Kuntsevich's request. On
November 21, 2023, Chernova terminated Kuntsevich's employment at KopenTech,
stating the company wished to "pursue a different direction." The
next day, Kuntsevich wrote to the Board and informed the Board of the financial
fraud and related issues. Kuntsevich did not receive the 2 percent equity
Chernova promised.
 
On August 13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike, arguing:
·       The FAC fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Kopentech
Capital Markets, LLC (“KCM”)
o  
Throughout
the FAC, Plaintiff refers generally to KopenTech, an all-encompassing term for
both KopenTech, LLC and KCM, and fails to provide any details regarding what
exactly is being alleged against whom. Plaintiff does acknowledge and alleges
that the two entities KCM and KopenTech are different. (FAC ¶¶ 2-3.) As such,
the FAC is vague as to its supposed allegations against KCM.
o  
Plaintiff
does not allege any sufficient facts to establish that KCM employed him. In
particular, Plaintiff has failed to (1) plead a unity of interest and ownership
between Defendants sufficiently; and (2) plead any supporting facts of the
elements of alter ego liability other than conclusory statements. Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 83 Cal. App. 4th 523, 538.
·       The FAC broadly groups all named
Defendants as “Defendants,” and refers to both KCM and KopenTech as “KopenTech”
therefore rendering the FAC uncertain.
·       Plaintiff’s intentional and negligent
misrepresentation claims fail
o  
To
support Plaintiff’s causes of action for misrepresentation, Plaintiff must
allege that Defendants either intentionally or negligently made a
misrepresentation as to a past or existing fact.
o  
Plaintiff
was allegedly due to receive this stock in July 2023, a future event, as he
alleges, he was interviewed in December 2022. (FAC, ¶¶ 12, 13). 
o  
This
alleged promise does not constitute a representation regarding existing or past
material facts which could serve as the basis for a misrepresentation cause of
action.
o  
Further
it is ambiguous as to what a “2 percent equity stake” is. Was he to be provided
2 percent of the private stock in the company? Was he to be provided with a 2
percent profit sharing plan? Without these essential details outlining the
terms of said alleged agreement, the FAC is uncertain and fails to state facts
sufficient to sustain a misrepresentation action as to the “2 percent stake” in
“KopenTech.”
·       Motion to strike
o  
Defendants
move to strike all references to punitive damages in the FAC
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff refers to both KCM and KT as
KopenTech throughout his FAC because he is alleging that both of the parties
are his former employers.
o  
Plaintiff
refers to KCM as his employer. Plaintiff states in his FAC that “Defendants
KopenTech, LLC and KopenTech Capital Markets, LLC, are collectively referred to
herein as “KopenTech.” (FAC ¶4) Therefore, any reference, including reference
to KopenTech being his employer, throughout the FAC is also implicating KCM.
o  
The
FAC states that KCM and KT make up an integrated enterprise. (FAC ¶4:6-8) And
to support this allegation, Plaintiff puts forward that both “companies” share
the same board of directors, and that Plaintiff was responsible for operations
of both companies, inferring that the KCM and KT were one and the same and the
Plaintiff was their employee. (FAC ¶5:12-13)
o  
Plaintiff
pled in in paragraph nine on information and belief that Defendants were “joint
employers” directly alleging that both KCM and KT were her employer. (FAC
¶9:28) Second, in paragraph 25 of the FAC Plaintiff alleges that KopenTech was
Plaintiff’s employer. (FAC ¶25:2-4)
·       Plaintiff’s FAC is not uncertain,
because the factual allegations in the complaint are sufficient for the
Defendants to understand Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants.
·       Plaintiff sufficiently alleged his
misrepresentation claims because he stated that he was promised equity in
Defendants KopenTech by Defendant Chernova and relied on that to continue to
work for Defendants but never received the payment.
o  
Plaintiff
provided sufficient facts stating Chernova made an oral promise around December
2022 to pay Plaintiff as part of his compensation package a 2% equity in
Defendants KopenTech, that Defendants failed to pay him.
o  
Plaintiff’s
allegation that he was promised equity stake in Defendants is not ambiguous
because it is generally understood that it means ownership in the company.
·       Defendant’s motion to strike should be
denied because the allegations in the First Amended Complaint sufficiently
allege outrageous conduct and fraud, malice, and oppression.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute a cause of action, that the FAC fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Kopentech Capital Markets,
LLC and that Plaintiff has not pled facts warranting punitive damages.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating they
sent a correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel identifying the alleged defects in
the FAC. (Dulloo Decl., ¶ 3.) The letter
asked Plaintiff’s counsel to contact Defendants’ counsel’s office to discuss
the issues raised in the meet and confer letter. (Ibid.) Defendants’
counsel states Plaintiff’s counsel failed to respond to the letter. (Dulloo Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants’ counsel called Plaintiff’s counsel
to discuss the deficiencies in the FAC, however, he was not able to reach
Plaintiff’s counsel and left a voicemail requesting a call back. (Ibid.)
The Court
finds the moving party satisfied its meet and confer obligations.   
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.      All Causes of
Action against Defendant Kopentech Capital Markets, LLC
 
Defendants demur
to all causes of action against Defendant Kopentech Capital
Markets, LLC (“KCM”). Defendant
argues that no specific conduct has been alleged to have been committed by KCM
and Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged that KCM was the alter ego of
KopenTech, LLC.
 
In Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the
Court of Appeal held the following was sufficient to allege alter ego
liability:  
 
Rutherford
alleged that Caswell dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and
ownership existed between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and
conduit for Caswell's affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR
failed to abide by the formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used
PDR assets as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would
promote injustice. These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First
Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910,
915–916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657. As in First Western, “[a]ssuming these facts
can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego
principle.” (Id. at p. 916, 73 Cal.Rptr. 657.) 
 
Defendants
argue that Rutherford failed to allege specific facts to support an alter ego
theory, but Rutherford was required to allege only “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, 67 Cal.Rptr.3d 330, 169 P.3d 559.) Moreover, the “less particularity [of
pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge
of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff,”
which certainly is the case here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474, 20 Cal.Rptr. 609, 370 P.2d 313.) Therefore, we
affirm the trial court's ruling that Rutherford sufficiently pled an alter ego
theory of liability. 
 
Here,
the FAC alleges the “Defendants KopenTech, LLC and KopenTech Capital Markets,
LLC are owned and controlled by Defendant Olga Chernova and//or Kenneth King.
Both entity defendants were incorporated on the same day. The same Board of
Directors oversees both companies. Agreements signed by Plaintiff were
applicable to both companies. Plaintiff was responsible for operations of both
of companies and also three other related companies.” (FAC, ¶ 5.) The FAC further alleges “Defendants
KopenTech, LLC and KopenTech Capital Markets, LLC, are collectively referred to
herein as "KopenTech." KopenTech is an integrated enterprise that
have common management, interrelation between operations, centralized control
of labor relations, and common ownership.” (FAC, ¶ 4.) The FAC also alleges “Plaintiff is informed
and believes and thereon alleges that, at all relevant times mentioned herein,
Defendants, and each of them, were the agents, servants, employees, partners,
joint-venturers, joint-employers or co-conspirators of each other defendant,
and that each defendant was acting within the course, scope and authority of
such agency, employment, partnership, joint venture or conspiracy, and that
each defendant, directly or indirectly, authorized, ratified and approved the
acts of the remaining defendants, and each of them.”  (FAC, ¶ 9.)
 
The Court finds these
allegations insufficient to plead alter ego liability as to KCM. Plaintiff
fails to plead any facts that could support an alter legal liability
theory, such as KCM and KopenTech, LLC having
any unity of interest and ownership or that KCM was
a mere shell and conduit for KopenTech LLC's affairs.
 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that he has alleged KCM is a joint employer.  
 
To determine whether an organization
is a joint employer, courts look to the facts surrounding the employment
relationship. (Vernon v. State of California (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 114,
124-125). Factors considered include payment of salary to the employee, the
location where the employee performed the work, the employer’s authority to
hire and discharge the employee, and the employer’s overall control over the
means and manner of the employee’s performance. (Id. at p. 125.) Further, “a person can be a joint employer
without exercising direct control over the employee. If the putative joint
employer instead exercises enough control over the intermediary entity to
indirectly dictate the wages, hours, or working conditions of the employee,
that is a sufficient showing of joint employment.” (Medina v. Equilon
Enterprises, LLC (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 868, 879).
 
However, the Court finds the FAC’s allegations
are not adequate to support joint employer liability. The FAC states in a
conclusory manner that “Defendants, and each of them, were the agents,
servants, employees, partners, joint-venturers, joint-employers or
co-conspirators of each other defendant.” (FAC, ¶ 9.) However, there are no facts alleged as to KCM’s
employment relationship with Plaintiff, such as KCM’s control over any aspects
of the employment relationship, including control over wages, hours, or working
conditions. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to plead liability on behalf of KCM.
 
Thus, the FAC
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against KCM. As such, the Demurrer to the FAC against Defendant KCM is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
D.     Third and
Fourth Causes of Action: Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendants
demur to the third and fourth causes of action for intentional
misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation arguing that Plaintiff has
failed to allege Defendants made a misrepresentation as to a past or existing
fact. 
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California courts have recognized a cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty to communicate accurate
information, in two circumstances.  The
first situation arises where providing false information poses a risk of and
results in physical harm to person or property. 
The second situation arises where information is conveyed in a
commercial setting for a business purpose.” 
(Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge
of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Here, the FAC
alleges “On or about December 2022, Chernova interviewed
Kuntsevich for the Chief Financial Officer / Chief of Staff role at KopenTech.
At the interview, Kuntsevich orally proposed a compensation package of a
$200,000 annual salary base plus a 2 percent equity stake.” (FAC, ¶ 12.) The FAC further alleges
“Prior to accepting and beginning on January 11, 2023, Chernova
represented, confirming in writing Kuntsevich would receive the equity award in
July 2023.” (FAC, ¶
13.) The FAC also alleges “In February 2023, [Kuntsevich]
resigned but was persuaded by Chernova, when she returned, to remain employed.
Chernova reiterated Kuntsevich would receive the equity award in July 2023.”
(FAC, ¶ 16.) The FAC alleges “Kuntsevich
continued to rely on Chernova’s representations he would receive a 2 percent
equity stake.” (FAC, ¶
17.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the proposed 2 percent equity stake was a promise and a promise
can support a claim for misrepresentation. “A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may
be actionable fraud. [Citations.]” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638, (Lazar).) “A representation as to the future is a promise,
unless it is merely a statement of a belief or an expectation.” (Cal. Ins. Code
§ 353)
 
However, the
FAC fails to specify whether Plaintiff was promised a 2 percent equity stake in
KCM or Kopentech LLC. The FAC alleges Chernova was Kopentech LLC’s Chief
Executive Officer. (FAC, ¶ 11.) If the 2 percent equity stake was in KCM, the FAC is
ambiguous as to Chernova’s authority to offer Plaintiff 2 percent equity in KCM
as the FAC only states KCM was owned and controlled by Chernova “and/or Kenneth
King.” (FAC, ¶ 5.)
Therefore, Plaintiff has not alleged the misrepresentation with the requisite
specificity. 
 
Thus,
the Demurrer to the FAC as to the third and fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
 
E.      Uncertainty
 
Defendants
also demur to the entire Complaint on the basis of uncertainty.
 
CCP section
430.10(f) provides that a pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous and
unintelligible. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty
is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) “The objection of
uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d
454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to what the pleader means by the facts
alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer
should not be sustained where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently
clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.” (People
v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) 
 
Here, the
Court does not find the rest of the Complaint is so uncertain that it is
ambiguous and unintelligible. The Court overrules the demurrer to the entire
Complaint on this basis. 
 
F.      
Motion to
Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendants request the Court to strike
all allegations of punitive damages as follows:
1.      FAC,
paragraph 28, p. 5 lines 11-12;
2.      FAC,
paragraph 32, p. 5 lines 24-25;
3.      FAC,
paragraph 37, p. 6 lines 13-14; and
4.      FAC’s Prayer
for Relief, paragraph 2, p. 7 line 4.
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Pursuant to
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), an entity employer cannot be liable
for punitive damages based on the acts of its employee unless an officer,
director or managing agent of the corporation “was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice,” or “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety or others or authorized or ratified the [unfit employee’s] wrongful
conduct.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(b); see also Coll. Hosp., Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721, 726.) A
managing agent is not merely a supervisory employee, but rather is limited to
those “who exercise[] substantial
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate
policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 563, 577.) Corporate
policies are “the general principles which guide a corporation, or rules
intended to be followed consistently over time in corporate operations” and a
managing agent is “one with substantial authority over decisions that set these
general principles and rules.” (Cruz v. Homebase (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th
160, 167-68.)
 
Plaintiff
argues Defendants acted with malice and
oppression by terminating Plaintiff in retaliation for complaining of illegal
conduct, including, tax fraud, false statements on PPP loan application, and misrepresentation
of corporate finances.
 
Reading
the allegations in the Complaint as a whole, the Court finds Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged deliberate intent on the part of Defendants to retaliate
against Plaintiff for complaining of illegal conduct. The court in G.D.
Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 27–32, it was
pointed out that there exists an uncertainty in the case law as to just what
terms adequately describe the necessary elements of “oppression, fraud or
malice” under Civil Code section 3294. Searle suggests that different
types of injurious conduct allow different formulations in pleading oppression
or malice, but that the critical element is an “evil motive” of the defendant.
(Id., at pp. 29–31.) Here, Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to
warrant punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s causes of
action against Defendant Kopentech Capital Markets, LLC is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s first and
second causes of action is OVERRULED. Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint’s third and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
DENIED.