  Case Number:  23STCV21662    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Mendoza, et. al. vs. Ford Motor Co., et. al., Case No. 23STCV21662
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Demurrer to Complaint
 
Defendant Ford Motor Co. (Defendant)
demurs to the third and fifth causes of action in the Complaint of Plaintiffs
Aurelio Mendoza and Marnia Mendoza (collectively, Plaintiffs). The demurrer is
overruled.
 
In reviewing
the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a demurrer, a court will treat the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (Blank);
C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins. Co.
(1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.) It is well settled that a “demurrer lies
only for defects appearing on the face of the complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency of a complaint is
tested against a general demurrer are well settled. We not only treat the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the
complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in
their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes omitted).) For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint must be construed liberally by
drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.)
When ruling
on a demurrer, the Court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or
matters which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a
plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A
demurrer is properly sustained only when the complaint, liberally construed,
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 574, 578.)
 
In this lemon
law action, Plaintiffs allege that they purchased a defective 2019 Ford F150
covered by Defendant’s warranty. (Comp. ¶¶ 9-13.) Plaintiffs’ vehicle is
allegedly affected by “one or more defects that can cause the vehicles and
their 10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation and/or delayed
acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering.”
(Comp. ¶ 25.)
 
Third Cause of Action for Violation of Civ. Code §
1793.2(a)(3)
Under Civ. Code §
1793.2, subd. (a)(3), every manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state
and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty shall . . . [m]ake
available to authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service
literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty
period.”
 
            Plaintiffs’
third cause of action alleges that Defendant violated Civil Code § 1793.2,
subd. (a)(3), when it “failed to make available to its authorized service and
repair facilities sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect
repairs during the express warranty period.” (Comp. ¶ 49.) Defendant argues
that this cause of action is pled in only conclusory terms. However, the cause
of action is also supported by Plaintiffs’ allegations that Defendant has
issued several technical service bulletins (TSBs) concerning the Transmission
Defect affecting Plaintiffs’ vehicle but still failed to fix the issue. (Comp.
¶¶ 27-34.) In light of those supporting allegations, the Court finds that the
third cause of action is sufficiently pled.
 
Fifth
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ claim
for fraudulent concealment on the grounds that (1) Plaintiffs have not pled
fraud with sufficient particularity, and (2) the claim is barred by the
economic loss rule.
 
The
required elements for fraudulent concealment are: “(1) concealment or
suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by
intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Graham v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606 (Graham.) 
The
rule of specificity of pleading is intended to apply only to affirmative
representations and not to fraud by concealment. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn.,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [“This statement of the rule [of
specificity] reveals that it is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations . . . it is harder to apply this rule to a case of simple
nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what¿means’ something didn’t happen,
or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?”].) In addition, “[l]ess
specificity is required when ‘it appears from the nature of the allegations
that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the
facts of the controversy....’” (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) 
“The general rule is that
misrepresentation by passive concealment (as opposed to affirmative
concealment) violates a duty to disclose only where there is a special
fiduciary relationship between the parties or where ‘the defendant has special
knowledge, or means of knowledge, not open to the plaintiff, and is aware that
the plaintiff is acting under a misapprehension as to facts which would be of
importance to him, and would probably affect his decision.’ ” (Crayton v.
Superior Court (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 443, 451 [citing Prosser on Torts (4th
ed. 1971), Representation and Nondisclosure, § 106, p. 697].)
Under their fifth cause of action,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “committed
fraud by allowing the Subject Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiffs without
disclosing that the Subject Vehicle and its transmission was defective and susceptible
to sudden and premature failure.” (Comp. ¶ 58.) “[W]hile Defendant knew about
the Transmission Defect, and its safety risks, Defendant nevertheless concealed
and failed to disclose the defective nature of the Vehicle and its transmission
to Plaintiffs at the time of sale, repair, and thereafter. Had Plaintiffs known
that the Subject Vehicle suffered from the Transmission Defect, they would not
have purchased the Subject Vehicle.” (Comp. ¶ 62.)
 
The Court finds these allegations
sufficient to plead fraudulent concealment. Though Plaintiffs do not allege the
existence of any fiduciary relationship between the parties, Plaintiffs have
pled Defendant’s duty to disclose by alleging that they entered into the
warranty contract with Defendant and Defendant had special knowledge of the
transmission defect. (Comp. ¶ 64.) While Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have
failed to plead any affirmative action taken by it, that is not a requirement
for fraud based on concealment.
 
The Court also finds that the economic
loss rule does not bar this claim. “Economic loss consists of damages for
inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement of the defective product or
consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to
other property. [Citation.] [T]he economic loss rule provides: ‘[W]here a
purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought
is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses.’ ” (Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) “The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover
in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless
he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Ibid.) 
 
One exception to the
economic loss rule applies “where the contract was fraudulently induced . . .
[I]n each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort liability is either
completely independent of the contract or arises from conduct which is both
intentional and intended to harm.” (Robinson Helicopter, 14 Cal.4th at
990.) Recently, the Court of Appeal in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, found that this exception to the economic loss rule
also applies to claims for fraudulent concealment, applying Robinson
Helicopter. (Id. at 843.) The issue had not previously been directly
addressed by California courts, and federal district courts are divided on it.
(See Id. at 842-43.) On February 1, 2023, the California Supreme Court
granted the petition for review of Dhital, and declined the request for
depublication of the opinion. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (2023) 304
Cal.Rptr.3d 82, 83.) Consequently, while the Supreme Court’s review is pending,
Dhital “has no
binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive
value only.” (Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e)(1).) 
Though Dhital is
not currently binding, the Court finds its reasoning persuasive and so follows
it here. Accordingly, the economic loss rule does not apply to Plaintiffs’
fraudulent concealment claim.