 Case Number:  23STCV24340    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  73 5/15/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ISABELLA HADDAD v. BACHI BUS LLC, et
al. (23STCV24340)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Simon Moshkovich
(Mercer Legal Group)
Counsel for Defendants/opposing
party:  Clifton Albright (Albright, Yee
& Schmit)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL REIMBURSMENT PURSUANT TO
CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 415.30 (filed 01/18/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Recover Reimbursement of Costs
in the amount of $1,600 is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for reimbursement of
costs for filing the instant motion in the amount of $219.60 is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff Isabella
Haddad (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants Bachi Bus
LLC (“Bachi”), Bachi Bus Bros LLC (“Bachi Bros”), and Jamelle Holieway (“Holieway”).
 
On
March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint alleging the
following causes of action: 
C/A 1: Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA 
C/A 2: Violation
of California Civil Code § 51.7 (Ralph Act – Gender Violence)
C/A 3: Discrimination on the Basis of Gender in
Violation of FEHA
C/A 4: Failure to Investigate and Prevent
Discrimination and Harassment in Violation of FEHA 
C/A 5: Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation
of Public Policy
C/A 6: Failure to Pay Wages Due and Owing Upon
Discharge


The FAC alleges the
following. On or about May 2022, Plaintiff began working as a cook and manager
of one of the food trucks owned and operated by Defendants. Until her
constructive termination in November 2022, Plaintiff alleges she was
consistently sexually harassed by Defendant Holieway, one of the owners of
Defendant Bachi. 
 
On January 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Reimbursement Pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure § 415.30:
·      
Plaintiff is seeking reimbursement for the expenses which
Plaintiff was forced to incur as a result of Defendants’ failure to provide
timely completed Notices of Acknowledgement of Receipt.
·      
Under C.C.P. section 415.30, the court shall impose a monetary
reimbursement against a party or attorney who unsuccessfully signs and returns
a copy of the Notice and Acknowledgement of Receipt within 20 days of receipt,
for costs incurred in serving the summons upon a party in any other manner
permitted by law.
·      
Here, Defendants and its attorneys did not return the signed
Notice and Acknowledgement of Receipt within the statutorily prescribed 20
days. Defendants’ counsel failed to provide the counter-signed Notice and
Acknowledgement of Receipts prior to Plaintiff incurring costs to have
Defendants served via publication.
·      
Plaintiff incurred costs of $1,600.00 in submitting the Summons
for publication in the LA Times.
·      
Additionally, Plaintiff incurred $219.60 in filing of this instant
motion.
Defendants did not file an
opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure § 415.30(d) states the following:  
 
(d)
If the person to whom a copy of the summons and of the complaint are mailed
pursuant to this section fails to complete and return the acknowledgment form
set forth in subdivision (b) within 20 days from the date of such mailing, the
party to whom the summons was mailed shall be liable for reasonable expenses
thereafter incurred in serving or attempting to serve the party by another
method permitted by this chapter, and, except for good cause shown, the court
in which the action is pending, upon motion, with or without notice, shall
award the party such expenses whether or not he is otherwise entitled to
recover his costs in the action. 
 
B.      Motion to
Recover Reimbursement of Costs of Service
 
Plaintiff moves to recover $1,600 in costs
incurred to serve Defendants by publication after Defendants failed to
acknowledge the receipt of summons and complaint. 
 
On or around
November 17, 2023, Plaintiff attempted service on Defendants via process
service. (Moshkovich Decl. ¶ 4.) However, service for Defendants Bachi and Bachi Bros
failed. (Ibid.) An investigation was initiated to
determine the new location of defendants on or around November 22, 2023, and Defendants Bachi and Bachi
Bros were subsequently served to the new identified address via
process service on November 27, 2023. (Ibid.) Both service attempts failed
once more. (Ibid.)
On or about December 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed two applications for publication
to receive authorization from the court to proceed with service by publication
in the Los Angeles Times. (Moshkovich Decl. ¶ 5.) That same day, counsel for
Defendants indicated he was approved to accept service via means of a Notice
and Receipt of Acknowledgement. (Ibid.) Plaintiff served via electronic
mail two Notice and Receipt of Acknowledgement upon counsel for Defendants the
following day. (Ibid.)
On or about December 21, 2023, the Orders for Publication were
signed by Honorable Mark E. Windham. (Moshkovich Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendants failed
to provide the completed Notice of Acknowledgment and Receipt within the 20-day
deadline. (Ibid.)
Defendants provided the completed Notice of Acknowledgment and
Receipt after the deadline, on January 10, 2024. (Ibid.) However,
Plaintiff had already placed an order with the LA Times for service by
publication. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to cancel the order, but it was too
late to do so, and Plaintiff incurred a cost of $1,600.00. (Moshkovich Decl. ¶
7.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s costs are recoverable. Due to
Defendants’ failure to timely return the completed Notices of Acknowledgment
and Receipt, Plaintiff utilized service by publication. California
Code of Civil Procedure § 415.30(d) specifically
states a party is liable for costs that were incurred to serve “by another
method permitted by this chapter.” Upon reviewing the other statutes in this
Chapter, the methods of service includes service by publication. Thus, the $1,600
that Plaintiff incurred for service by publication is recoverable.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Recover
Reimbursement of Costs is GRANTED.  
A.      Request for Reimbursement
of Costs for Filing the Instant Motion
 
Plaintiff’s
motion also includes a request for reimbursement of $219.60 in
fees for the filing of this motion. (Motion, p. 4; Moshkovich Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
The Court
notes that Plaintiff does not specify whether the $219.60
in fees covers only the filing costs or attorneys’
fees for the preparation of the motion as well. Nevertheless, the Court does
not find that these fees are recoverable. Attorneys’ fees are recoverable when
authorized by statute or by agreement. CCP § 1021 states “Except as attorney's
fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of
compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or proceedings are
entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.” Here, CCP § 415.30 does not
provide any authorization for attorneys’ fees or filing costs, only those fees
incurred in serving the party. Moreover, Plaintiff does not
provide any evidence that the parties agreed to attorneys’ fees. Plaintiff
does not cite to any authority or provide any support for its request for filing
costs. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s request for
reimbursement of costs for filing the instant motion is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Recover Reimbursement of Costs
in the amount of $1,600 is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for reimbursement of
costs for filing the instant motion in the amount of $219.60 is DENIED.